item 1a. risk factors. given the inherent uncertainty and complexity of the businesses that we engage in, our results from operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted as set forth below. our success depends significantly on the establishment and maintenance of successful relationships with our customers. we have relied on governmental customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. approximately 66% of our revenue in fiscal year 2013 was generated by various nasa and u.s. government contracts or subcontracts. the loss of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot make any assurances that any customer will require our services in the future. therefore, we continue to work on diversifying our customer base to include other government agencies and commercial industries, while going to great lengths to satisfy the needs of our current customer base. termination of our future orders could negatively impact our revenues. the company’s rolling backlog at june 30, 2013, which includes contractual backlog and scheduled but uncommitted missions, is $25.5 million. the majority is for aso pre-launch satellite processing services, which include hardware launch preparation; advance planning; use of unique satellite preparation facilities; and spacecraft checkout, encapsulation, fueling and transport. since our backlog is not yet earned and can be terminated by our customers, we cannot assure that our backlog will ultimately result in revenues. increase competition from a branch of the u.s. government or a commercial entity could significantly reduce the number of missions using astrotech facilities. astrotech provides services for domestic launch sites. in the event that the u.s. government or commercial entity offers spacecraft ground processing facilities for the launch sites currently serviced by astrotech, there could be a reduced need for the use of astrotech facilities. this would result in direct competition for our existing customers in connection with servicing domestic launch sites, which could significantly reduce our revenues. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against any new competitor in this area or that these competitive pressures we may face will not result in reduced revenues and market share. compliance with environmental and other government regulations could be costly and could negatively affect our financial condition. our business, particularly our aso business unit, is subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the operation and maintenance of our facilities and the release or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances, including spacecraft fuels and oxidizers, into the environment. under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injury and cleaning costs and other environmental and property damages, as well as administrative, civil, and criminal penalties. in the event of a violation of these laws, or a release of hazardous substances at or from our facilities, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of rules and regulations, the violation of which could result in us being barred from future u.s. government contracts. we must comply with, and are affected by, laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of u.s. government contracts. these laws and regulations, among other things: •   require certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations.       •   impose acquisition regulations that define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based u.s. government contracts.       •   restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. 12 a violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, or being prohibited from bidding on u.s. government contracts. additionally, u.s. government contracts generally contain provisions that allow the u.s. government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of certain federal laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our services and associated materials. prohibition against bidding on future u.s. government contracts would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our failure to comply with u.s. export control laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. we are obligated by law and under contract to comply, and to ensure that our subcontractors comply, with all u.s. export control laws and regulations, including the international traffic in arms regulations and the export administration regulations. we are responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses or other approvals, if required, for exports of hardware, technical data, and software, or for the provision of technical assistance. we are also required to obtain export licenses, if required, before utilizing foreign persons in the performance of our contracts if the foreign person will have access to export-controlled technical data or software. the violation of any of the applicable export control laws and regulations, whether by us or any of our subcontractors, could subject us to administrative, civil, and criminal penalties. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the u.s. government. u.s. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. these agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. the u.s. government may also review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, and management information systems. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm that may affect our non-governmental business if allegations of impropriety were made against us. our spacetech business unit is in an early development stage. it has earned limited revenues and it is uncertain whether it will earn any revenues in the future or whether it will ultimately be profitable. our spacetech business unit is in an early stage with limited commercial sales and a limited operating history. its future operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business including, but not limited to, risks related to capital requirements, failure to establish business relationships and competitive disadvantages against larger and more established companies. the spacetech business unit will require substantial amounts of funding to continue to commercialize its products. if such funding comes in the form of equity financing, such equity financing may involve substantial dilution to existing shareholders. even with funding, our products may fail to be effective or attractive to the market or lack the necessary financial or other resources or relationships to be successful. the spacetech business unit can be expected to experience continued operating losses until it can generate sufficient revenues to cover its operating costs. furthermore, there can be no assurance that the business will be able to develop, manufacture or market additional products in the future, that future revenues will be significant, that any sales will be profitable or that the business will have sufficient funds available to complete its commercialization efforts. any products and technologies developed and manufactured by our spacetech business unit may require regulatory approval prior to being made, marketed, sold, and used. there can be no assurance that regulatory approval of any products will be obtained. 13 the commercial success of the spacetech business unit is expected to depend, in part, on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in any products it develops. in addition, the spacetech business unit may need to license intellectual property to commercialize future products or avoid infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. there can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all. the spacetech business unit may suffer if any licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license or fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid, or if the spacetech business unit is unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. if the spacetech business unit, or any third party, from whom it licenses intellectual property, fails to obtain adequate patent or other intellectual property protection for intellectual property covering its products, or if any protection is reduced or eliminated, others could use the intellectual property covering the products, resulting in harm to the competitive business position of the spacetech business unit. in addition, patent and other intellectual property protection may not provide the spacetech business unit with a competitive advantage against competitors that devise ways of making competitive products without infringing any patents that the spacetech business unit owns or has rights to. such competition could adversely affect the prices for any products or the market share of the spacetech business unit and could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. our facilities located in florida and california are susceptible to damage caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, or other natural disasters. our aso spacecraft processing facilities on the east coast of florida are susceptible to damage caused by hurricanes or other natural disasters. in addition, our satellite processing facilities at vafb are subject to damage caused by earthquakes. although we insure our properties and maintain business interruption insurance, there can be no guarantee that the coverage would be sufficient or a claim will be fulfilled. a natural disaster could result in a temporary or permanent closure of our business operations, thus impacting our future financial performance. due to our dependence on the timing of spacecraft launches, our results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. the use of our aso spacecraft processing facilities is highly dependent upon the number of satellite launches planned and executed each year. additionally, factors beyond our direct control, such as a delay or accident at a launch vehicle support facility, could cause a material change in our financial results. as a result, significant fluctuations should be expected from quarter to quarter in our operating results. the loss of key management and other employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are dependent on the personal efforts and abilities of our senior management, and our success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified employees. failure to attract personnel sufficiently qualified to execute our strategy, or to retain existing key personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we are unable to anticipate technological advances and customer requirements in the commercial and governmental markets, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. our business strategy outlines the use of decades of experience to expand the services and products we offer to both u.s. government agencies and commercial industries. we believe that our growth and future financial performance depend upon our ability to anticipate technological advances and customer requirements. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve the necessary technological advances for us to remain competitive. in fiscal year 2013, we continued new business initiatives for advancing commerce in space. these new business initiatives will require substantial investments of capital and technical expertise. our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technological and market requirements, or delays in additional product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. additionally, the cost of capital to fund these businesses will likely require dilution of shareholders. our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to pay off or refinance our indebtedness with near-term maturities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. we cannot assure that our business will generate cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our maturing indebtedness as it comes due. as a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of the debt or we may need to secure new financing before maturity. we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain financing on reasonable terms or at all, particularly given the general economic situation and lending environment we currently face. 14 our earnings and margins may vary due to the nature of our fixed-priced contracts. our business mix includes cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. cost-reimbursable contracts generally have lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. our aso business unit contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts. if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. additionally, the costs incurred to operate our core aso business are near-term fixed. as a result, if we are not able to schedule payload processing in order to optimize our facilities, our financial results could be adversely affected. we plan to develop new products and services. no assurances can be given that we will be able to successfully develop these products and services. our business strategy outlines the use of the decades of experience we have accumulated to expand the services and products we offer to both u.s. government agencies and commercial industries. these services and products generally involve the commercial exploitation of space, and involve new and untested technologies and business models. these technologies and business models may not be successful, which could result in the loss of any investment we make in developing them. our financial results could be adversely affected if the estimates that we use in accounting for contracts are incorrect and need to be changed. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for scheduling and technical issues. we rely on the application of consistent business processes in order to minimize material error and maximize reporting transparency. the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion for many of our contracts is complicated and subject to many unknown variables. if our performance under a cost reimbursable contract results in an award fee that is lower than we have estimated, we would be required to refund previously billed fee amounts and would have to adjust our revenue recognition accordingly. if our performance was determined to be significantly deficient, we may be required to reimburse our customers for the entire amount of previously billed awards. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. our spacecraft payload processing facilities are specifically designed to process satellites and other payloads and we would lose a substantial portion of their value if we no longer provide these services. our aso spacecraft processing facilities were built specifically to process satellites and space related payloads. if we were required to terminate the processing businesses, the value of these facilities could be impaired and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be negatively impacted. our inability to maintain required government security clearances and the impact of foreign ownership or control could result in a loss of potential future spacecraft ground processing and other opportunities. in order to be a service and product provider for spacecraft ground processing and other related activities, we are required to maintain certain government security clearances and we must comply with laws that limit foreign ownership and control. we may be subject to regulatory action and other sanctions if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to required security clearances and foreign ownership and control. this could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work, and our operating results. we incur substantial upfront, non-reimbursable costs in preparing proposals to bid on contracts that we may not be awarded. preparing a proposal to bid on a contract is generally a three to six month process. this process is labor-intensive and results in the incurrence of substantial costs that are generally not retrievable. additionally, although we may be awarded a contract, work performance does not commence for several months following completion of the bidding process. if funding problems by the party awarding the contract or other matters further delay our commencement of work, these delays may lower the value of the contract, or possibly render it unprofitable. 15 if our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on the nasdaq capital market it may harm our stock price and our common stock may become illiquid. on november 13, 2012, we received written notification from nasdaq indicating that the minimum bid price of our common stock had fallen below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days and that we were therefore not in compliance with nasdaq listing rule 5550(a)(2). on may 14, 2013, we received a second compliance notice from nasdaq regarding the company's failure to maintain the minimum bid price for continued listing. however, the nasdaq staff has determined that the company is eligible for an additional 180 day grace period, or until november 11, 2013, to regain compliance. nasdaq's determination was based on the company meeting the continued listing requirement for market value of publicly held shares and all other applicable requirements for initial listing on the nasdaq capital market, with the exception of the bid price requirement, and the company's written notice to nasdaq of its intention to cure the deficiency during the second compliance period. there can be no assurance that we will cure the deficiency during the second compliance period. any delisting of our common stock from the nasdaq capital market could adversely affect our ability to attract new investors, decrease the liquidity of our outstanding shares of common stock, reduce our flexibility to raise additional capital, reduce the price at which our common stock trades and increase the transaction costs inherent in trading such shares with overall negative effects for our shareholders. in addition, delisting of our common stock could deter broker-dealers from making a market in or otherwise seeking or generating interest in our common stock, and might deter certain institutions and persons from investing in our securities at all. for these reasons and others, delisting could adversely affect the price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. item 1b. unresolved