item 1a. risk factors we face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our business, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. the following are some of the more important factors that could affect our business. our financial results depend on equity market returns and the investment performance of our affiliates. our affiliates typically receive fees based on the market value of assets under management, and payments will be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets. in addition, some of our affiliates are paid fees based on investment performance on an absolute basis or relative to a specified benchmark and, as such, are directly dependent upon investment results which may vary substantially from year to year. unfavorable market performance and volatility in the capital markets or in the prices of specific securities may reduce our affiliates' assets under management, which in turn may adversely affect the fees payable to our affiliates and, ultimately, our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. because our assets under management are largely concentrated in equity products, our results are particularly susceptible to downturns in the equity markets, or a decline in the assets invested in the equity markets. our growth strategy depends upon continued growth from our existing affiliates and upon making new investments in boutique investment management firms. our affiliates may not maintain their respective levels of performance or contribute to our growth at their historical or currently anticipated levels. also, our affiliates may be unable to carry out their management succession plans, which may adversely affect their operations and revenue streams and thus our results of operations. the continued success of our investment program will depend upon our ability to find suitable firms in which to invest, our ability to negotiate agreements with such firms on acceptable terms, and our ability to raise the capital necessary to finance such transactions. we cannot be certain that we will be successful in investing in such firms or that they will have favorable operating results following our investment, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our financial results could be adversely affected by the financial stability of other financial institutions. we and our affiliates routinely execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial services industry. historical market volatility highlights the interconnection of the global markets and demonstrates how the deteriorating financial condition of one institution may materially and adversely impact the performance of other institutions. we and our affiliates may be exposed to such risk in the event that a counterparty with whom we transact defaults on its obligations, or if there are other unrelated systemic failures in the markets. historically, equity markets and our common stock have been volatile. the market price of our common stock historically has experienced and may continue to experience volatility, and the broader equity markets have experienced and may again experience significant price and volume fluctuations. in addition, our announcements of our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us, our affiliates or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. our business is highly regulated. our business is subject to extensive regulation by various regulatory and self-regulatory authorities in jurisdictions around the world, as detailed above. see “government regulation” in item 1. if we or any of our affiliates were to fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations or be named as a subject of an investigation or other regulatory action, the public announcement and potential publicity surrounding any such investigation or action could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and result in increased costs even if we (or our affiliates) were found not to have violated such laws, rules or regulations. our failure or the failure of any affiliate to satisfy regulatory requirements could subject us to civil liability, criminal liability or sanctions that might materially impact our or our affiliate's business. as investment advisers, our affiliates are subject to numerous obligations, fiduciary duties and other regulatory requirements, where non-compliance could result in censure or termination of adviser status, litigation or reputational harm, any of which could have an adverse effect on our stock price and results of operations. we are at times subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes and/or penalties and interest, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition. proposals in the u.s. and the european union have called for more stringent regulation and additional taxation of the financial services industry in which we and our affiliates operate, which may make it more likely that changes will occur that could adversely affect our business, our access to capital and the market for our common stock. 7 table of contents changes in laws or regulatory requirements, or the interpretation or application of such laws and regulatory requirements by regulatory authorities, can occur without notice and could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and mode of operations. in the u.s., regulatory uncertainty continues to surround the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, which represented a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services regulatory environment and requires federal agencies to implement numerous new rules, which may impose additional restrictions and limitations on our and our affiliates' businesses as they are adopted. in the united kingdom and europe, our business may be impacted by financial services reform initiatives enacted or under consideration in the european union. compliance with these new laws and regulations may also result in increased compliance costs and expenses, and non-compliance may result in fines and penalties. our international operations are subject to foreign risks, including political, regulatory, economic and currency risks. we and some of our affiliates operate offices or advise clients outside of the u.s., and several affiliates are based outside the u.s. accordingly, we and our affiliates that have foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business internationally, in addition to the risks our business faces more generally. these risks may include changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles, difficulties in collecting investment advisory fees receivable, different, and in some cases, less stringent legal, regulatory and accounting regimes, political instability, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, expatriation controls, expropriation risks and potential adverse tax consequences. these or other risks related to our international operations may have an adverse effect both on our affiliates and on our consolidated business, financial condition and results of operations. our affiliates' autonomy limits our ability to alter their management practices and policies, and we may be held responsible for liabilities incurred by certain of them. although our agreements with our affiliates typically give us the authority to control and/or vote with respect to certain of their business activities, we generally are not directly involved in managing our affiliates' day-to-day activities, including investment management policies and procedures, fee levels, marketing and product development, client relationships, employment and compensation programs and compliance activities. as a consequence, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by problems stemming from the day-to-day operations of our affiliates, where weaknesses or failures in internal processes or systems could lead to a disruption of our affiliates' operations, liability to their clients, exposure to disciplinary action or reputational harm. some of our affiliates are partnerships or limited liability companies of which we, or entities controlled by us, are the general partner or managing member. consequently, to the extent that any of these majority-owned affiliates incur liabilities or expenses that exceed their ability to pay for them, we may be directly or indirectly liable for their payment. similarly, an affiliate’s payment of distributions to us may be subject to claims by potential creditors, and an affiliate may default on distributions that are payable to us. in addition, with respect to each of these affiliates, we may be held liable in some circumstances as a control person for the acts of the affiliate or its employees. while we and our affiliates maintain errors and omissions and general liability insurance in amounts believed to be adequate to cover certain potential liabilities, we cannot be certain that we will not have claims that exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, that the insurers will remain solvent and will meet their obligations to provide coverage or that insurance coverage will continue to be available to us and our affiliates with sufficient limits and at a reasonable cost. a judgment in excess of available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. the agreed-upon expense allocation under our revenue sharing arrangements with our affiliates may not be large enough to pay for all of the respective affiliate's operating expenses. our affiliates have generally entered into agreements with us under which they have agreed to pay us a specified percentage of their respective gross revenue, while retaining a percentage of revenue for use in paying that affiliate's operating expenses. we may not anticipate and reflect in those agreements possible changes in the revenue and expense base of any affiliate, and the agreed-upon expense allocation may not be large enough to pay for all of an affiliate's operating expenses. we may elect to defer the receipt of our share of an affiliate's revenue to permit the affiliate to fund such operating expenses, or we may restructure our relationship with an affiliate with the aim of maximizing the long-term benefits to us, but we cannot be certain that any such deferral or restructured relationship would be of any greater benefit to us. such a deferral or restructured relationship may have an adverse effect on our near-term or long-term profitability and financial condition. the sale or issuance of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely impact the price of our common stock. the sale or issuance of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely impact its price. in connection with our financing activities, we issued securities and entered into contracts including our junior convertible trust preferred securities and forward equity agreements that may result in the issuance of our common stock upon the occurrence of certain events. we also have exercisable options outstanding and unvested restricted stock that have been awarded under our 8 table of contents share-based incentive plans. moreover, in connection with future financing activities, we may issue additional convertible securities or shares of our common stock. any such issuance of shares of our common stock could have the effect of substantially diluting the interests of our current equity holders. in the event that a large number of shares of our common stock are sold in the public market, the price of our common stock may fall. the failure to consummate announced investments in new investment management firms could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. consummation of our acquisition transactions is generally subject to a number of closing conditions, contingencies and approvals, including but not limited to obtaining certain consents of the investment management firms' clients. in the event that an announced transaction is not consummated, we may experience a decline in the price of our common stock to the extent that the then-current market price reflects a market assumption that we will complete the announced transaction. in addition, the fact that a transaction did not close after we announced it publicly may negatively affect our ability and prospects to consummate transactions in the future. finally, we must pay costs related to these transactions, including legal and accounting fees, even if the transactions are not completed, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we expect that we will need to raise additional capital in the future, and existing or future resources may not be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. while we believe that our existing cash resources and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for normal operations for the foreseeable future, our continuing acquisitions of interests in new affiliated boutique investment management firms may require additional capital. in addition, we are contingently liable to make additional purchase payments (of up to $474.1 million through 2017) upon the achievement of specified financial targets in connection with certain of our prior acquisitions. as of december 31, 2013, we expect to make payments of $75.0 million (none in 2014) to settle obligations related to consolidated affiliates and may make payments of up to $151.0 million related to the company's equity method investments. subject to certain limitations, affiliate partners have the conditional right to put equity interests to us over time. because these obligations are conditional and dependent upon the individual equity-holder’s decision to sell their equity, it is difficult to predict the frequency and magnitude of these repurchases (our redeemable non-controlling interests balance at december 31, 2013 is $641.9 million). these obligations may require more cash than is then available from operations. thus, we may need to raise capital by making additional borrowings or by selling shares of our common stock or other equity or debt securities, or to otherwise refinance a portion of these obligations. our level of indebtedness may increase if we fund one or more future acquisitions through borrowings under our credit facility. this additional indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and will require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness. the financing activities described above could increase our interest expense, decrease our net income or dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. in addition, our access to further capital, and the cost of capital we are able to access, is influenced by our credit rating. a reduction in our credit rating could increase our borrowing costs and may limit our access to the capital markets. we have substantial intangibles on our balance sheet, and any impairment of our intangibles could adversely affect our results of operations. at december 31, 2013, our total assets were $6.3 billion, of which $3.8 billion were intangible assets, and $1.1 billion were equity investments in affiliates, an amount comprised primarily of intangible assets. we cannot be certain that we will ever realize the value of such intangible assets. an impairment of our intangible assets or an other than temporary decline in the value of our equity investments could adversely affect our results of operations. we and our affiliates rely on certain key personnel and cannot guarantee their continued service. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers and our other officers and employees. our executive officers, in particular, play an important role in the stability and growth of our existing affiliates and in identifying potential investment opportunities for us. we do not have employment agreements with our officers, although each of them has a significant equity interest. in addition, our affiliates depend heavily on the services of key principals, who in many cases have managed their firms for many years. these principals often are primarily responsible for their firm's investment decisions. although we use a combination of economic incentives, transfer restrictions and, in some instances, non-solicitation agreements and employment agreements in an effort to retain key management personnel, there is no guarantee that these principals will remain with their 9 table of contents firms. since certain affiliates contribute significantly to our revenue, the loss of key management personnel at these affiliates could have a disproportionate adverse impact on our business. failure to maintain and properly safeguard an adequate technology infrastructure may limit our growth, result in losses or disrupt our business. we operate in an industry that is dependent on its information systems and technology. the failure to implement, maintain and safeguard an infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of our business could impede our productivity and growth, which could adversely impact our stock price and results of operations. further, although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software, networks and mobile devices, and those of third parties on whom we rely, may be vulnerable to cyber attacks, breaches, unauthorized access, theft, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if any such event occurred, our and our affiliates' confidential, proprietary and other sensitive information could be jeopardized or we or our affiliates could experience interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in significant losses, increased costs or reputational harm, or otherwise subject us to litigation or regulatory action. we may be required to spend significant additional resources to modify our security measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures. our affiliates' investment management contracts are subject to termination on short notice. our affiliates derive almost all of their revenue from their clients based upon their investment management contracts with those clients. these contracts are typically terminable by the client without penalty upon relatively short notice (typically not longer than 60 days) and may not be assignable without consent. we cannot be certain that our affiliates will be able to retain their existing clients or attract new clients. if our affiliates' clients withdraw a substantial amount of funds, it is likely to harm our results. in addition, investment management contracts with mutual funds are subject to annual approval by each fund's board of directors. our industry is highly competitive. through our affiliates, we compete with a broad range of investment managers, including public and private investment advisors, firms associated with securities broker-dealers, financial institutions, insurance companies, private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds and other entities that serve our three principal distribution channels, many of whom have greater resources. this competition may reduce the fees that our affiliates can obtain for their services. we believe that our affiliates' ability to compete effectively with other firms in our three distribution channels depends upon our affiliates' products, investment performance, reputations, and client-servicing capabilities, and the marketing and distribution of their investment products, among other factors. see "competition" in item 1. our affiliates may not compare favorably with their competitors in any or all of these categories. from time to time, our affiliates also compete with each other for clients. the market for acquisitions of interests in investment management firms is highly competitive. many other public and private financial services companies, including commercial and investment banks, private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies and investment management firms, which may have significantly greater resources than we do, also invest in or buy investment management firms. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively with such companies, that new competitors will not enter the market or that such competition will not make it more difficult or not feasible for us to make new investments in investment management firms. 10 table of contents item 1b. unresolved