item 1a.  risk factors risks related to our business risks related to the regulation of our businesses could affect the rates we are able to charge, our costs and our profitability. our businesses are subject to regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. in particular, at the federal level our businesses are regulated by the ferc. at the state level, our businesses are regulated by the georgia, tennessee, new jersey, florida, virginia and maryland regulatory authorities. these authorities regulate many aspects of our operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, rates that we charge customers, rates of return, the authorized cost of capital, recovery of costs associated with our regulatory infrastructure projects, including our pipeline replacement programs, and environmental remediation activities, relationships with our affiliates, and carrying costs we charge marketers selling retail natural gas in georgia for gas held in storage for their customer accounts. our ability to obtain rate increases and rate supplements to maintain our current rates of return and recover regulatory assets and liabilities recorded in accordance with authoritative guidance related to regulated operations depends on regulatory discretion, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate increases or rate supplements or continue receiving our currently authorized rates of return including the recovery of our regulatory assets and liabilities. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 introduced a comprehensive new regulatory framework for swaps and security-based swaps. although the sec and other regulators are still in the process of adopting rules to implement the new framework, it is possible that sequent, or other aspects of agl resources’ operations, could be subject to the new regulations, depending on the ultimate definitions of key terms in the dodd-frank act such as “swap,” “swap dealer” and “major swap participant.” we could incur significant compliance costs if we must adjust to new regulations. in addition, as the regulatory environment for our industry increases in complexity, the risk of inadvertent noncompliance could also increase. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations, whether existing or new ones, we could be subject to fines, penalties or other enforcement action by the authorities that regulate our operations, or otherwise be subject to material costs and liabilities. this may require increased use of working capital for sequent.     in 1997, georgia enacted legislation allowing deregulation of gas distribution operations. to date, georgia is the only state in the nation that has fully deregulated gas distribution operations, which ultimately resulted in atlanta gas light exiting the retail natural gas sales business while retaining its gas distribution operations. marketers, including our majority-owned subsidiary, southstar, then assumed the retail gas sales responsibility at deregulated prices. the deregulation process required atlanta gas light to completely reorganize its operations and personnel at significant expense. it is possible that the legislature could reverse or amend portions of the deregulation process. our business is subject to environmental regulation in all jurisdictions in which we operate, and our costs to comply are significant. any changes in existing environmental regulation could affect our results of operations and financial condition. our operations and properties are subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal, state and municipal laws and regulations. such environmental legislation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances into the environment. environmental legislation also requires that our facilities, sites and other properties associated with our operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. our current costs to comply with these laws and regulations are significant to our results of operations and financial condition. failure to comply with these laws and regulations and failure to obtain any required permits and licenses may expose us to fines, penalties or interruptions in our operations that could be material to our results of operations. in addition, claims against us under environmental laws and regulations could result in material costs and liabilities. existing environmental regulations could also be revised or reinterpreted, new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our facilities, and future changes in environmental laws and regulations could occur. with the trend toward stricter standards, greater regulation, more extensive permit requirements and an increase in the number and types of assets operated by us subject to environmental regulation, our environmental expenditures could increase in the future, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers. additionally, the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions could give rise to expenditures and liabilities, including fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. glossary of key terms 14 table of contents our infrastructure improvement and customer growth may be restricted by the capital-intensive nature of our business. we must construct additions to our natural gas distribution system to continue the expansion of our customer base and improve system reliability, especially during peak usage. we may also need to construct expansions of our existing natural gas storage facilities or develop and construct new natural gas storage facilities. the cost of this construction may be affected by the cost of obtaining government and other approvals, development project delays, adequacy of supply of diversified vendors, or unexpected changes in project costs. weather, general economic conditions and the cost of funds to finance our capital projects can materially alter the cost, and projected construction schedule and completion timeline of a project. our cash flows may not be fully adequate to finance the cost of this construction. as a result, we may be required to fund a portion of our cash needs through borrowings or the issuance of common stock, or both. for our distribution operations segment, this may limit our ability to expand our infrastructure to connect new customers due to limits on the amount we can economically invest, which shifts costs to potential customers and may make it uneconomical for them to connect to our distribution systems. for our natural gas storage business, this may significantly reduce our earnings and return on investment from what would be expected for this business, or may impair our ability to complete the expansions or development projects. we may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention from scientists and legislators alike. the debate is ongoing as to the extent to which our climate is changing, the potential causes of this change and its potential impacts. some attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. presently there are no federally mandated greenhouse gas reduction requirements in the united states. however, there are a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. the outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. these actions could: ·   result in increased costs associated with our operations ·   increase other costs to our business ·   affect the demand for natural gas, and ·   impact the prices we charge our customers. because natural gas is a fossil fuel with low carbon content, it is possible that future carbon constraints could create additional demand for natural gas, both for production of electricity and direct use in homes and businesses. any adoption by federal or state governments mandating a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions could have far-reaching and significant impacts on the energy industry. we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws or regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. our gas distribution and storage activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents, including third party damages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of our operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses to us. in accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. the location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. the occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. we face increasing competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our revenues, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected which may limit our ability to grow our business. the natural gas business is highly competitive, increasingly complex, and we are facing increasing competition from other companies that supply energy, including electric companies, oil and propane providers and, in some cases, energy marketing and trading companies. in particular, the success of our investment in southstar is affected by the competition southstar faces from other energy marketers providing retail natural gas services in the southeast. natural gas competes with other forms of energy. the primary competitive factor is price. changes in the price or availability of natural gas relative to other forms of energy and the ability of end-users to convert to alternative fuels affect the demand for natural gas. in the case of commercial, industrial and agricultural customers, adverse economic conditions, including higher gas costs, could also cause these customers to bypass or disconnect from our systems in favor of special competitive contracts with lower per-unit costs. glossary of key terms 15 table of contents our wholesale services segment competes with national and regional full-service energy providers, energy merchants and producers and pipelines for sales based on our ability to aggregate competitively priced commodities with transportation and storage capacity. some of our competitors are larger and better capitalized than we are and have more national and global exposure than we do. the consolidation of this industry and the pricing to gain market share may affect our operating margin. we expect this trend to continue in the near term, and the increasing competition for asset management deals could result in downward pressure on the volume of transactions and the related operating margin available in this portion of sequent’s business. the continuation of recent economic conditions could adversely affect our customers and negatively impact our financial results. the slowdown in the united states economy, along with increased mortgage defaults, and significant decreases in new home construction, home values and investment assets, has adversely impacted the financial well-being of many households in the united states. we cannot predict if the administrative and legislative actions to address this situation will be successful in reducing the severity or duration of this recession. as a result, our customers may use less gas in future heating seasons and it may become more difficult for them to pay their natural gas bills. this may slow collections and lead to higher than normal levels of accounts receivables, bad debt and financing requirements. a significant portion of our accounts receivable is subject to collection risks, due in part to a concentration of credit risk in georgia and at sequent. we have accounts receivable collection risk in georgia due to a concentration of credit risk related to the provision of natural gas services to marketers. at december 31, 2010, atlanta gas light had eleven certificated and active marketers in georgia , four of which (based on customer count and including southstar) accounted for approximately 31% of our consolidated operating margin for 2010. as a result, atlanta gas light depends on a concentrated number of customers for revenues. the provisions of atlanta gas light’s tariff allow it to obtain security support in an amount equal to no less than two times a marketer’s highest month’s estimated bill in the form of cash deposits, letters of credit, surety bonds or guaranties. the failure of these marketers to pay atlanta gas light could adversely affect atlanta gas light’s business and results of operations and expose it to difficulties in collecting atlanta gas light’s accounts receivable. agl resources provides a guarantee to atlanta gas light as security support for southstar. additionally, southstar markets directly to end-use customers and has periodically experienced credit losses as a result of severe cold weather or high prices for natural gas that increase customers’ bills and, consequently, impair customers’ ability to pay. sequent often extends credit to its counterparties. despite performing credit analyses prior to extending credit and seeking to effectuate netting agreements, sequent is exposed to the risk that it may not be able to collect amounts owed to it. if the counterparty to such a transaction fails to perform and any collateral sequent has secured is inadequate, sequent could experience material financial losses. further, sequent has a concentration of credit risk, which could subject a significant portion of its credit exposure to collection risks. approximately 56% of sequent’s credit exposure, excluding $61 million of customer deposits, is concentrated in its top 20 counterparties. most of this concentration is with counterparties that are either load-serving utilities or end-use customers that have supplied some level of credit support. default by any of these counterparties in their obligations to pay amounts due sequent could result in credit losses that would negatively impact our wholesale services segment. the asset management arrangements between sequent and our local distribution companies, and between sequent and its nonaffiliated customers, may not be renewed or may be renewed at lower levels, which could have a significant impact on sequent’s business. sequent currently manages the storage and transportation assets of our affiliates atlanta gas light, chattanooga gas, elizabethtown gas, elkton gas, florida city gas, and virginia natural gas and shares profits it earns from the management of those assets with those customers and their respective customers, except at elkton gas where sequent is assessed annual fixed-fees payable in monthly installments. entry into and renewal of these agreements are subject to regulatory approval. the asset management agreement for elizabethtown gas expires in march 2011 and we are currently working with the new jersey bpu to extend this agreement for an additional three years. the agreements for atlanta gas light and virginia natural gas are subject to renewal in march 2012. additionally, the agreement with florida city gas expires in march 2013 and the agreement with chattanooga gas expires in march 2014. sequent also has asset management agreements with certain nonaffiliated customers. sequent’s results could be significantly impacted if these agreements are not renewed or are amended or renewed with less favorable terms. glossary of key terms 16 table of contents we are exposed to market risk and may incur losses in wholesale services and retail energy operations. the commodity, storage and transportation portfolios at sequent and the commodity and storage portfolios at southstar consist of contracts to buy and sell natural gas commodities, including contracts that are settled by the delivery of the commodity or cash. if the values of these contracts change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate, we could experience financial losses from our trading activities. based on a 95% confidence interval and employing a 1-day holding period for all positions, sequent’s and southstar’s portfolio of positions as of december 31, 2010 had a 1-day holding period var of $1.6 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively. our accounting results may not be indicative of the risks we are taking or the economic results we expect for wholesale services. although sequent enters into various contracts to hedge the value of our energy assets and operations, the timing of the recognition of profits or losses on the hedges does not always correspond to the profits or losses on the item being hedged. the difference in accounting can result in volatility in sequent’s reported results, even though the expected operating margin is essentially unchanged from the date the transactions were initiated. changes in weather conditions may affect our earnings. weather conditions and other natural phenomena can have a large impact on our earnings. severe weather conditions can impact our suppliers and the pipelines that deliver gas to our distribution system. extended mild weather, during either the winter or summer period, can have a significant impact on demand for and cost of natural gas. we have a wna mechanism for elizabethtown gas and chattanooga gas that partially offsets the impact of unusually cold or warm weather on residential and commercial customer billings and our operating margin. at elizabethtown gas we could be required to return a portion of any wna surcharge to its customers if elizabethtown gas’ return on equity exceeds its authorized return on equity of 10.3%. additionally, virginia natural gas has a wna mechanism for its residential customers that partially offsets the impacts of unusually cold or warm weather. in september 2007, the virginia commission approved virginia natural gas’ application for an experimental weather normalization adjustment rider (the rider) for its commercial customers. the rider applied to the 2007 and 2008 heating seasons. in september 2009 the rider was extended to september 2011. these wna regulatory mechanisms are most effective in a reasonable temperature range relative to normal weather using historical averages. the protection afforded by the wna depends on continued regulatory approval. the loss of this continued regulatory approval could make us more susceptible to weather-related earnings fluctuations. changes in weather conditions may also impact southstar’s earnings. as a result, southstar uses a variety of weather derivative instruments to stabilize the impact on its operating margin in the event of warmer or colder than normal weather in the winter months. however, these instruments do not fully protect southstar’s earnings from the effects of unusually warm or cold weather. a decrease in the availability of adequate pipeline transportation capacity could reduce our revenues and profits. our gas supply depends on the availability of adequate pipeline transportation and storage capacity. we purchase a substantial portion of our gas supply from interstate sources. interstate pipeline companies transport the gas to our system. a decrease in interstate pipeline capacity available to us or an increase in competition for interstate pipeline transportation and storage service could reduce our normal interstate supply of gas. our profitability may decline if the counterparties to sequent’s asset management transactions fail to perform in accordance with sequent’s agreements. sequent focuses on capturing the value from idle or underutilized energy assets, typically by executing transactions that balance the needs of various markets and time horizons. sequent is exposed to the risk that counterparties to our transactions will not perform their obligations. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements, honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices or return a significant portion of the consideration received for gas. in such events, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to or received from counterparties. we could incur additional material costs for the environmental condition of some of our assets, including former manufactured gas plants. we are generally responsible for all on-site and certain off-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of the natural gas assets that we have operated, acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are or were known or unknown. in addition, in connection with certain acquisitions and sales of assets, we may obtain, or be required to provide, indemnification against certain environmental liabilities. before natural gas was widely available, we manufactured gas from coal and other fuels. those manufacturing operations were known as mgps, which we ceased operating in the 1950s. glossary of key terms 17 table of contents we have confirmed ten sites in georgia and three in florida where we own all or part of an mgp site. one additional former mgp site has been recently identified adjacent to an existing mgp remediation site. precise engineering soil and groundwater clean up estimates are not available and considerable variability exists with this potential new site. we are required to investigate possible environmental contamination at those mgp sites and, if necessary, clean up any contamination. as of december 31, 2010, the soil and sediment remediation program was substantially complete for all georgia sites, except for a few remaining areas of recently discovered impact, although groundwater cleanup continues. as of december 31, 2010, projected costs associated with the mgp sites associated with atlanta gas light range from $57 million to $105 million. for elements of the mgp program where we still cannot provide engineering cost estimates, considerable variability remains in future cost estimates. in addition, we are associated with former sites in new jersey and north carolina. material cleanups of these sites have not been completed nor are precise estimates available for future cleanup costs and therefore considerable variability remains in future cost estimates. for the new jersey sites, cleanup cost estimates range from $75 million to $138 million. costs have been estimated for one site in north carolina and range from $11 million to $16 million. inflation and increased gas costs could adversely impact our ability to control operating expenses, increase our level of indebtedness and adversely impact our customer base. inflation has caused increases in certain operating expenses that have required us to replace assets at higher costs. we attempt to control costs in part through implementation of best practices and business process improvements, many of which are facilitated through investments in information systems and technology. we have a process in place to continually review the adequacy of our utility gas rates in relation to the increasing cost of providing service and the inherent regulatory lag in adjusting those gas rates. historically, we have been able to control operating expenses and investments within the amounts authorized to be collected in rates, and we intend to continue to do so. however, any inability by us to control our expenses in a reasonable manner would adversely influence our future results. rapid increases in the price of purchased gas cause us to experience a significant increase in short-term debt because we must pay suppliers for gas when it is purchased, which can be significantly in advance of when these costs may be recovered through the collection of monthly customer bills for gas delivered. increases in purchased gas costs also slow our utility collection efforts as customers are more likely to delay the payment of their gas bills, leading to higher-than-normal accounts receivable. this situation results in higher short-term debt levels and increased bad debt expense. should the price of purchased gas increase significantly during the upcoming heating season, we would expect increases in our short-term debt, accounts receivable and bad debt expense during 2011. finally, higher costs of natural gas in recent years have already caused many of our utility customers to conserve in the use of our gas services and could lead to even more customers utilizing such conservation methods or switching to other competing products. the higher costs have also allowed competition from products utilizing alternative energy sources for applications that have traditionally used natural gas, encouraging some customers to move away from natural gas fired equipment to equipment fueled by other energy sources. however, natural gas prices are expected to remain lower than they have been for the last few years as a result of a robust natural gas supply, the weak economy and ample storage. the cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible employees and qualified retirees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we have defined benefit pension and postretirement health care plans for the benefit of substantially all full-time employees and qualified retirees. the cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension fund assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of beneficiaries and changes in health care cost trends. any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension funds. in these circumstances, we may be required to recognize an increased pension expense or a charge to our other comprehensive income to the extent that the pension fund values are less than the total anticipated liability under the plans. market declines in the second half of 2008 resulted in significant losses in the value of our pension fund assets. although the market made a recovery in 2009 and 2010 our pension fund assets are not at the levels they were prior to the market decline in 2008. as a result, based on the current funding status of the plans, we would be required to make a minimum contribution to the plans of approximately $23 million in 2011. we are planning to make additional contributions in 2011 up to $38 million, for a total of up to $61 million, in order to preserve the current level of benefits under the plans and in accordance with the funding requirements of the pension protection act of 2006 (pension protection act). as of december 31, 2010 our pension plans assets represented 65% of our total pension plan obligations. glossary of key terms 18 table of contents for more information regarding some of these obligations, see item 7, “management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations” under the caption “contractual obligations and commitments” and the subheading “pension and postretirement obligations” and note 5 “employee benefit plans,” set forth in item 8, “financial statements and supplementary data.”   natural disasters, terrorist activities and the potential for military and other actions could adversely affect our businesses. natural disasters may damage our assets. the threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies may lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in the price of natural gas that could affect our operations. in addition, future acts of terrorism could be directed against companies operating in the united states, and companies in the energy industry may face a heightened risk of exposure to acts of terrorism. these developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. the insurance industry has also been disrupted by these events. as a result, the availability of insurance covering risks against which we and our competitors typically insure may be limited. in addition, the insurance we are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms. risks related to our corporate and financial structure we depend on our ability to successfully access the capital and financial markets. any inability to access the capital or financial markets may limit our ability to execute our business plan or pursue improvements that we may rely on for future growth. we rely on access to both short-term money markets (in the form of commercial paper and lines of credit) and long-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital and operating requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. if we are not able to access financial markets at competitive rates, our ability to implement our business plan and strategy will be negatively affected, and we may be forced to postpone, modify or cancel capital projects. certain market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. such market disruptions could result from: ·   adverse economic conditions ·   adverse general capital market conditions ·   poor performance and health of the utility industry in general ·   bankruptcy or financial distress of unrelated energy companies or marketers ·   significant decrease in the demand for natural gas ·   adverse regulatory actions that affect our local gas distribution companies and our natural gas storage business ·   terrorist attacks on our facilities or our suppliers, or ·   extreme weather conditions. the global credit markets have experienced significant disruption and volatility in recent years. while the commercial paper market has stabilized it has not returned to its pre-recession state. as of december 31, 2010, we had $732 million in commercial paper outstanding and no outstanding borrowings under our credit facility, bridge facility or term loan facility. subsequent to december 31, 2010, we drew a portion of the term loan facility to help repay our senior notes that matured in january 2011. during 2010, our borrowings under our credit facility along with our commercial paper were primarily used to purchase natural gas inventories for the current heating season. the amount of our working capital requirements in the near-term will primarily depend on the market price of natural gas and weather. higher natural gas prices may adversely impact our accounts receivable collections and may require us to increase borrowings under our credit facility to fund our operations. while we believe we can meet our capital requirements from our operations and our available sources of financing, we can provide no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the future, especially if the market price of natural gas increases significantly in the near-term. the future effects on our business, liquidity and financial results due to market disruptions could be material and adverse to us, both in the ways described above, or in ways that we do not currently anticipate. if we breach any of the financial covenants under our various credit facilities, our debt service obligations could be accelerated. our existing credit facility, bridge facility, term loan facility and the southstar line of credit contain financial covenants. if we breach any of the financial covenants under these agreements, our debt repayment obligations under them could be accelerated. in such event, we may not be able to refinance or repay all our indebtedness, which would result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. a downgrade in our credit rating could negatively affect our ability to access capital. our senior unsecured debt is currently assigned investment grade credit ratings. if the rating agencies downgrade our ratings, particularly below investment grade, it may significantly limit our access to the commercial paper market and our borrowing costs would increase. in addition, we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings and our potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. glossary of key terms 19 table of contents additionally, if our credit rating by either s&p or moody’s falls to non-investment grade status, we will be required to provide additional support for certain customers of our wholesale business. in december 2010, after we announced the proposed merger with nicor, s&p lowered our outlook from stable to negative watch, but s&p did not change our credit rating. as of december 31, 2010, if our credit rating had fallen below investment grade, we would have been required to provide collateral of approximately $39 million to continue conducting our wholesale services business with certain counterparties. we are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt, which could lead to changes in interest expense and adversely affect our earnings. we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. in order to maintain our desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we may use interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed-rate and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. for additional information, see item 7a, “quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.” we cannot ensure that we will be successful in structuring such swap agreements to manage our risks effectively. if we are unable to do so, our earnings may be reduced. in addition, higher interest rates, all other things equal, reduce the earnings that we derive from transactions where we capture the difference between authorized returns and short-term borrowings. we are a holding company and are dependent on cash flow from our subsidiaries, which may not be available in the amounts and at the times we need. a portion of our outstanding debt was issued by our wholly-owned subsidiary, agl capital, which we fully and unconditionally guarantee. since we are a holding company and have no operations separate from our investment in our subsidiaries, we are dependent on cash in the form of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our cash requirements. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other distributions is subject to applicable state law. refer to item 5, “market for the registrant’s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities” for additional dividend restriction information. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. we use derivatives, including futures, forwards and swaps, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. we could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative financial instruments can involve management’s judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could adversely affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. as a result of cross-default provisions in our borrowing arrangements, we may be unable to satisfy all our outstanding obligations in the event of a default on our part.   our credit facility, bridge facility and term loan facility contain cross-default provisions. should an event of default occur under some of our debt agreements, we face the prospect of being in default under other of our debt agreements, obligated in such instance to satisfy a large portion of our outstanding indebtedness and unable to satisfy all our outstanding obligations simultaneously. risks related to our proposed merger with nicor the merger may not be completed, which could adversely affect our business operations and stock price. to complete the merger, our shareholders must approve the issuance of shares of our common stock as contemplated by the merger agreement and the amendment to our amended and restated articles of incorporation to increase the number of directors that may serve on our board of directors, and nicor shareholders must approve the merger agreement. in addition, we and nicor must also make certain filings with, and obtain certain other approvals and consents from, various united states federal and state governmental and regulatory authorities. we have not yet obtained all regulatory clearances, consents and approvals required to complete the merger. governmental or regulatory agencies could still seek to block or challenge the merger or could impose restrictions they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest as a condition to approving the merger. if these approvals are not received, or they are not received on terms that satisfy the conditions set forth in the merger agreement, then we will not be obligated to complete the merger. in addition, the merger agreement contains other customary closing conditions which may not be satisfied or waived. if we are unable to complete the merger, we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following: glossary of key terms 20 table of contents ·   we would not realize the anticipated benefits of the merger, including, among other things increased operating efficiencies ·   the attention of our management may have been diverted to the merger rather than to our operations and the pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us ·   the potential loss of key personnel during the pendency of the merger as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company ·   we will have been subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business, which may prevent us from making certain acquisitions or dispositions or pursuing certain business opportunities while the merger is pending ·   the trading price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed. we are required to pay nicor a termination fee and the reimbursement of merger-related out-of-pocket expenses if we terminate the merger under certain circumstances specified in the merger agreement. the occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. the market price of our common stock after the merger may be affected by factors different from those affecting the shares of agl resources or nicor currently. our businesses differ from those of nicor in important respects and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of our shares of common stock following the merger may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the results of our operations. the merger is subject to receipt of consent or approval from governmental entities that could delay or prevent the completion of the merger or impose conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the combined company or that could cause abandonment of the merger.   to complete the merger, we and nicor need to obtain approvals or consents from, or make filings with, a number of united states federal and state public utility, antitrust and other regulatory authorities. while we believe that we will receive  the required statutory approvals and other clearances for the merger, there can be no assurance as to the receipt or timing of receipt of these approvals and clearances. if such approvals and clearances are received, they may impose terms (i) that do not satisfy the conditions set forth in the merger agreement, which could permit us or nicor to terminate the merger agreement or (ii) that could reasonably be expected to have a detrimental impact on the combined company following completion of the merger. a substantial delay in obtaining the required authorizations, approvals or consents or the imposition of unfavorable terms, conditions or restrictions contained in such authorizations, approvals or consents could prevent the completion of the merger or have an adverse effect on the anticipated benefits of the merger, thereby impacting the business, financial condition or results of operations of the combined company. even after the statutory antitrust law waiting period has expired, governmental authorities could seek to block or challenge the merger as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest. we are subject to contractual restrictions in the merger agreement that may hinder operations pending the merger. the merger agreement restricts each company, without the other’s consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs or the merger agreement terminates. these restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. we will be subject to various uncertainties while the merger is pending that may cause disruption and may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with employees, suppliers, or customers. uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, suppliers and customers may have an adverse effect on us. although we intend to take steps designed to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair our abilities to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to seek to change or terminate existing business relationships with us or not enter into new relationships or transactions. employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior to the completion of the merger, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. if, despite our retention and recruiting efforts, key employees depart or fail to continue employment with us because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, the combined company’s operational and financial performance following the merger could be adversely affected if it is unable to retain key employees and skilled workers. the loss of the services of key employees and skilled workers and their experience and knowledge regarding our business could adversely affect the combined company’s future operating results and the successful ongoing operation of its businesses. glossary of key terms 21 table of contents pending shareholder suits could delay or prevent the closing of the merger or otherwise adversely impact our business and operations. several class action lawsuits have been brought by purported nicor shareholders challenging nicor’s proposed merger with us. the complaints allege that we aided and abetted alleged breaches of fiduciary duty by nicor’s board of directors. the shareholder actions seek, among other things, declaratory and injunctive relief, including orders enjoining the defendants from completing the proposed merger and, in certain circumstances, damages. no assurances can be given as to the outcome of these lawsuits, including the costs associated with defending these lawsuits or any other liabilities or costs the parties may incur in connection with the litigation or settlement of these lawsuits. furthermore, one of the conditions to closing the merger is that there are no injunctions issued by any court preventing the completion of the transactions. no assurance can be given that these lawsuits will not result in such an injunction being issued which could prevent or delay the closing of the merger agreement. the merger may not be accretive to our earnings and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common shares. we currently anticipate that the merger will be neutral to our earnings per share in the first full year following the completion of the merger and accretive thereafter. this expectation is based on preliminary estimates which may materially change. we may encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs, may fail to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the merger or be subject to other factors that affect preliminary estimates. any of these factors could cause a decrease in our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and contribute to a decrease in the price of our common shares. if the merger is completed, the anticipated benefits of combining nicor with us may not be realized. we entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, increased operating efficiencies and reduced costs. although we expect to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, achieving them is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: ·   whether united states federal and state public utility, antitrust and other regulatory authorities whose approval is required to complete the merger impose conditions on the merger, which may have an adverse effect on the combined company, including its ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger ·   the ability of the two companies to combine certain of their operations or take advantage of expected growth opportunities ·   general market and economic conditions ·   general competitive factors in the marketplace ·   higher than expected costs required to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. no assurance can be given that these benefits will be achieved or, if achieved, the timing of their achievement. failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs and decreases in the amount of expected revenues or net income of the combined company. the integration of agl resources and nicor following the merger will present significant challenges that may result in a decline in the anticipated potential benefits of the merger. the merger involves the combination of two companies that previously operated independently. the difficulties of combining the companies’ operations include: ·   combining the best practices of two companies, including utility operations, non-regulated energy marketing operations and staff functions ·   coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities ·   integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures ·   moving our operating headquarters for our gas distribution business to naperville, illinois ·   reducing the costs associated with each company’s operations ·   preserving important relationships of both agl resources and nicor and resolving potential conflicts that may arise. the process of combining operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined company’s businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. the diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the merger and the integration of the two companies’ operations could have an adverse effect on the business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the combined company after the merger. we will incur significant transaction, merger-related and restructuring costs in connection with the merger. we expect to incur costs associated with combining the operations of the two companies, as well as transaction fees and other costs related to the merger. the combined company also will incur restructuring and integration costs in connection with the merger. we are in the early stages of assessing the magnitude of these costs and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses. the costs related to restructuring will be expensed as a cost of the ongoing results of operations of either agl resources or nicor or the combined company. although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, may offset incremental transaction, merger-related and restructuring costs over time, any net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. glossary of key terms 22 table of contents current shareholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest after the merger and will exercise less influence over management of the combined company. upon completion of the merger we expect to issue up to approximately 38.6 million shares of common stock to nicor shareholders in connection with the merger agreement. as a result, our current shareholders are expected to hold approximately 67% of the total shares of our common stock outstanding immediately following the completion of the proposed merger. if the merger occurs, each of our shareholders will remain a shareholder of agl resources with a percentage ownership of the combined company that is significantly smaller than the shareholder’s percentage ownership of agl resources prior to the merger. as a result of these reduced ownership percentages, our shareholders will have less influence on the management and policies of the combined company than they now have with respect to us. the combined company will record goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect the combined company’s operating results. we will account for the merger as a purchase in accordance with gaap. under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of nicor will be recorded, as of the date of completion of the merger, at their respective fair values and added to our assets and liabilities. our reported financial condition and results of operations issued after completion of the merger will reflect nicor balances and results after completion of the merger, but will not be restated retroactively to reflect the historical financial position or results of operations of nicor for periods prior to the merger. following completion of the merger, the earnings of the combined company will reflect purchase accounting adjustments. under the purchase method of accounting, the total purchase price will be allocated to nicor’s tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the merger. the fair value of nicor's tangible and intangible assets and liabilities subject to the rate setting practices of their regulators approximate their carrying value. the excess of the purchase price over those fair values will be recorded as goodwill. we expect that the merger will result in the creation of goodwill based upon the application of purchase accounting. to the extent the value of goodwill or intangibles becomes impaired, the combined company may be required to incur material charges relating to such impairment. such a potential impairment charge could have a material impact on the combined company’s operating results. our inability to obtain the financing necessary to complete the transaction could delay or prevent the completion of the merger. we intend to finance the cash portion of the merger consideration with debt financing. agl capital (as borrower) and agl resources (as guarantor), entered into the bridge facility in december 2010, which may be used to partially finance the cash portion of the merger and pay related fees and expenses in the event that permanent financing is not available at the time of the closing of the merger. agl resources and/or agl capital may issue debt securities, preferred stock, common equity, or other securities, bank loans, or other debt financings in lieu of all or a portion of the drawing under the bridge facility. under the terms of the merger agreement, if all of the conditions to closing are satisfied and the proceeds of the financing or alternative financing necessary to complete the transaction are not available, the merger agreement may be terminated by either party. however, such party is not in material breach of its representations, warranties, or covenants in the merger agreement. in such event, we may be required to pay nicor a financing failure fee of $115 million. although we have entered into the bridge facility, the availability of funds under the bridge facility is subject to certain conditions including, among others, the absence of a material adverse effect on agl resources or nicor, pro forma compliance with a consolidated total debt to total capitalization ratio of 70%, the ability of the borrower to achieve certain minimum credit ratings and the ability of the borrower to achieve a certain liquidity level at closing. although we expect to obtain in a timely manner the financing necessary to complete the pending merger, if we are unable to timely obtain the financing because one of the conditions to the financing fails to be satisfied, the closing of the merger could be significantly delayed or may not occur at all, and we could be obligated to pay nicor the financial failure fee. our indebtedness following the merger will be higher than our existing indebtedness, which could limit our operations and opportunities, make it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts and may cause us to issue additional equity in the future, which would increase the dilution of our shareholders or reduce earnings. in connection with the merger, we will assume nicor’s outstanding debt and incur additional debt to pay the merger consideration and transactions expenses. our total indebtedness as of september 30, 2010 was approximately $2.5 billion. our pro forma total indebtedness as of september 30, 2010, after giving effect to the merger, would have been approximately $4.4 billion (including approximately $0.4 billion of currently payable long-term debt, approximately $1.0 billion of short-term borrowings and approximately $3.0 billion of long-term debt and other long-term obligations). glossary of key terms 23 table of contents our debt service obligations with respect to this increased indebtedness could have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows (which after the merger would include the earnings and cash flows of nicor) for as long as the indebtedness is outstanding. this increased indebtedness could also have important consequences to shareholders. for example, it could: ·   make it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions because any decrease in revenues could cause us to not have sufficient cash flows from operations to make our scheduled debt payments ·   limit our flexibility to pursue other strategic opportunities or react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and, consequently, place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt ·   require a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments and other general corporate purposes ·   result in a downgrade in the credit rating of our indebtedness, which could limit our ability to borrow additional funds or increase the interest rates applicable to our indebtedness (after the announcement of the merger, standard & poor's ratings services placed its long-term ratings on agl resources on negative watch) ·   reduce the amount of credit available to us to support hedging activities ·   result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates since some of our borrowings are, and will continue to be, at variable rates. based upon current levels of operations, we expect to be able to generate sufficient cash on a consolidated basis to make all of the principal and interest payments when such payments are due under our existing credit agreements, indentures and other instruments governing our outstanding indebtedness, and under the indebtedness of nicor and its subsidiaries that may remain outstanding after the merger; but there can be no assurance that we will be able to repay or refinance such borrowings and obligations. we are committed to maintaining and improving our credit ratings. in order to maintain and improve these credit ratings, we may consider it appropriate to reduce the amount of indebtedness outstanding following the merger. this may be accomplished in several ways, including issuing additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock, reducing discretionary uses of cash or a combination of these and other measures. issuances of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock would have the effect of diluting the ownership percentage that shareholders will hold in the combined company and might reduce the reported earnings per share. the specific measures that we may ultimately decide to use to maintain or improve our credit ratings and their timing, will depend upon a number of factors, including market conditions and forecasts at the time those decisions are made. following the merger, shareholders will own equity interests in a company that owns and operates a carrier shipping business, which can present unique risks. nicor’s ownership and operation of tropical shipping, a carrier of containerized freight in the bahamas and the caribbean region, which we anticipate will make up approximately 4% of the combined company's earnings before interest and taxes, or ebit, will subject the combined company to various risks to which we are not currently subject. these include the costs associated with compliance with the international ship and port-facility security code and the united states maritime transportation security act, both of which require extensive security assessments, plans and procedures, regulatory oversight by the federal maritime commission and the surface transportation board, the effect of general economic conditions in the united states, the bahamas, the caribbean region and canada on the results of operations, cash flows and financial conditions of tropical shipping, and the effect of weather conditions in florida, canada, the bahamas and the caribbean region on the results of operations, cash flows and financial conditions of tropical shipping. as shareholders of the combined company following the merger, our shareholders may be adversely affected by these risks. item 1b. unresolved