item 1a. risk factors information provided by the company or its spokespersons, including information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, may from time to time contain forward-looking statements concerning projected financial performance, market and industry sector growth, product development and commercialization or other aspects of future operations. such statements will be based on the assumptions and expectations of the company's management at the time such statements are made. the company cautions investors that its performance (and, therefore, any forward-looking statement) is subject to risks and uncertainties. various important factors including, but not limited to, the following may cause the company's future results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. global economic conditions. the financial markets in certain geographies continue to experience disruption, including, among other things, volatility in securities prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments, declining valuations of others and uncertainty regarding governmental fiscal policies. these economic conditions may negatively impact the company as some of its customers defer purchasing decisions, thereby lengthening the company's sales cycles. in addition, certain of the company's customers' budgets may be constrained and they may be unable to purchase the company's products at the same level. the company's customers' ability to pay for the company's products and services may also be impaired, which may lead to an increase in the company's allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. the company is unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current economic conditions. should these economic conditions result in the company not meeting its revenue growth objectives, the company's operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. decline in customers' business. the company's sales are based significantly on end-user demand for products in key industrial sectors. many of these sectors periodically experience economic declines, which may be exacerbated by other economic factors, including the recent global economic conditions. these factors may adversely affect the company's business by extending sales cycles and reducing revenue. these economic factors may cause the company's customers to reduce the 9 table of contents size of their workforce or cut back on operations and may lead to a reduction in license renewals or ongoing maintenance contracts with the company. the company's customers may also request discounts or extended payment terms on new products or seek to extend payment terms on existing contracts, all of which may cause fluctuations in the company's future operating results. the company may not be able to adjust its operating expenses to offset such fluctuations because a substantial portion of the company's operating expenses is related to personnel, facilities and marketing programs. the level of personnel and related expenses may not be able to be adjusted quickly and is based, in significant part, on the company's expectation for future revenue. risks associated with international activities. a majority of the company's business comes from outside the united states and the company has customers that supply a wide spectrum of goods and services in virtually all of the world's major economic regions. as the company continues to expand its sales presence in international regions, the portion of its revenue, expenses, cash, accounts receivable and payment obligations denominated in foreign currencies continues to increase. the company's revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the u.s. dollar weakens. as a result, changes in currency exchange rates will affect the company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in the event that there are economic declines in countries in which the company conducts transactions, the resulting changes in currency exchange rates may affect the company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. the company is most impacted by movements in and among the euro, british pound, japanese yen, indian rupee, korean won and the u.s. dollar.  the company seeks to reduce these risks primarily through its normal operating and treasury activities, but there can be no assurance that it will be successful in reducing these risks. additional risks inherent in the company's international business activities include imposition of government controls; export license requirements; restrictions on the export of critical technology, products and services; political and economic instability; trade restrictions; changes in tariffs and taxes; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; longer accounts receivable payment cycles; and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available in every foreign country in which the company sells its products and services. the company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially, adversely affected by any of these risks. stock market and stock price volatility. market prices for securities of software companies have generally been volatile. in particular, the market price of the company's common stock has been, and may continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations as a result of factors affecting the company, the software industry or the securities markets in general. such factors include, but are not limited to, declines in trading price that may be triggered by the company's failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. moreover, the trading price could be subject to additional fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in the company's operating results, material announcements made by the company or its competitors, conditions in the financial markets or the software industry generally or other events and factors, many of which are beyond the company's control. rapidly changing technology; new products; risk of product defects. the company operates in an industry generally characterized by rapidly changing technology and frequent new product introductions, which can render existing products obsolete or unmarketable. a major factor in the company's future success will be its ability to anticipate technological changes and to develop and introduce, in a timely manner, enhancements to its existing products, products acquired in acquisitions and new products to meet those changes. if the company is unable to introduce new products and to respond quickly to industry changes, its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially, adversely affected. the introduction and marketing of new or enhanced products require the company to manage the transition from existing products in order to minimize disruption in customer purchasing patterns. there can be no assurance that the company will be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely basis, new products or product enhancements, that its new products will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace or that it will successfully manage the transition from existing products. software products as complex as those offered by the company may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced, or as new versions are released, and the likelihood of errors is increased as a result of the company's commitment to the frequency of its product releases. there can be no assurance that errors will not be found in any new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments. certain products require a higher level of sales and support expertise. the ability of the company's sales channel, particularly the indirect channel, to obtain this expertise and to sell the new product offerings effectively could have an adverse impact on the company's sales in future periods. any of these problems may result in the loss of or delay in customer acceptance, diversion of development resources, damage to the company's reputation, or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could have a material, adverse effect on the company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. product quality. the company has separate quality systems and registrations under the iso 9001:2008 standard, in addition to other governmental and industrial regulations. the company’s continued compliance with quality standards and favorable 10 table of contents outcomes in periodic examinations is important to retain current customers and vital to procure new sales. if the company was determined not to be compliant with various regulatory or iso 9001/9000 standards, its certificates of registration could be suspended, requiring remedial action and a time-consuming re-registration process. the company’s reputation may become diminished, resulting in a material, adverse impact on revenue, operating margins, net income, financial position and cash flows. competition. the company continues to experience competition across all markets for its products and services. some of the company's current and possible future competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the company, and some have well established relationships with current and potential customers of the company. the company's current and possible future competitors also include firms that have or may in the future elect to compete by means of open source licensing. these competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions and/or increased operating costs, and could result in lower revenues, margins and net income. changes in the company's pricing models.  the intense competition the company faces in the sales of its products and services, and general economic and business conditions, can put pressure on the company to adjust its prices. if the company's competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services, or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, the company may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce operating margins and could adversely affect operating results. the company's software license updates and product support fees are generally priced as a percentage of its new software license fees. the company's competitors may offer lower percentage pricing on product updates and support that could put pressure on the company to further discount its new license prices. any broad-based change to the company's prices and pricing policies could cause new software license and service revenues to decline or be delayed as its sales force implements and its customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of the company's competitors may bundle software products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that the company can charge for certain of its products. if the company does not adapt its pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of its products or changes in customer demand, the company's new software license revenues could decrease. additionally, increased distribution of applications through application service providers, including software-as-a-service providers, may reduce the average price for the company's products or adversely affect other sales of the company's products, reducing new software license revenues unless the company can offset price reductions with volume increases. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause the company to adjust its pricing models. dependence on senior management and key technical personnel. the company's success depends upon the continued services of the company's senior executives, key technical employees and other employees. each of the company's executive officers, key technical personnel and other employees could terminate his or her relationship with the company at any time. the loss of any of the company's senior executives might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of the company's business objectives and could materially harm the company's business and customer relationships. in addition, because of the highly technical nature of the company's products, the company must attract and retain highly skilled engineering and development personnel, many of whom are recruited from outside of the united states. the market for this talent is highly competitive. the company is limited in its ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. if the company has less success in recruiting and retaining key personnel, the company's business, reputation and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. dependence on proprietary technology. the company's success is highly dependent upon its proprietary technology. the company generally relies on contracts and the laws of copyright, patents, trademarks and trade secrets to protect its technology. the company maintains a trade secrets program, enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees and channel partners, and limits access to and distribution of its software, documentation and other proprietary information. there can be no assurance that the steps taken by the company to protect its proprietary technology will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of its technology by third parties, or that third parties will not be able to develop similar technology independently. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of trade secret rights and related confidentiality and nondisclosure provisions. although the company is not aware that any of its technology infringes upon the rights of third parties, there can be no assurance that other parties will not assert technology infringement claims against the company or that, if asserted, such claims will not prevail. risks associated with security of our products, source code and it systems. we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our products, source code and computer systems and data. despite significant efforts to create security barriers to such programs, it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. there appears to be an increasing number of computer “hackers” developing and deploying a variety of destructive software programs (such as viruses, worms, 11 table of contents and the like) that could attack our products and computer systems. like all software products, our software is vulnerable to such attacks. the impact of such an attack could disrupt the proper functioning of our software products, cause errors in the output of our customers' work, allow unauthorized access to sensitive, proprietary or confidential information of ours or our customers and other destructive outcomes. if this were to occur, our reputation may suffer, customers may stop buying our products, we could face lawsuits and potential liability and our financial performance could be negatively impacted. there is also a danger of industrial espionage, cyber-attacks, misuse, or theft of information or assets (including source code), or damage to assets by people who have gained unauthorized access to our facilities, systems, or information. such cybersecurity breaches, misuse, or other disruptions could lead to the disclosure of portions of our product source code or other confidential information, improper usage and distribution of our products without compensation, illegal usage of our products jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems, theft, manipulation and destruction of private and proprietary data, defective products and production downtimes. although we actively employ measures to combat unlicensed copying, access and use of software and intellectual property through a variety of techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently difficult. these events could adversely affect our financial results or could result in significant claims for damages against us, and participating in lawsuits to protect against any such unauthorized access to, usage of or disclosure of any of our products or any portion of our product source code, or in prosecutions in connection with any such cybersecurity breach, could be costly and time-consuming and may divert management's attention and adversely affect the market's perception of us and our products. policing the unauthorized distribution and use of our products is difficult, and software piracy (including online piracy) is a persistent problem. although we actively employ measures to combat unlicensed copying, access and use of software and intellectual property through a variety of techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently difficult. the proliferation of technology designed to circumvent typical software protection measures used in our products, and the possibility that methods of circumventing the techniques we employ in our products, may lead to an expansion in piracy or misuse of our products and intellectual property. as a result, and despite our efforts to prevent such activities and to prosecute instances of such activities, we may nonetheless lose significant revenue due to illegal use of our software, and management's attention may be diverted to address specific instances of piracy or misuse or address piracy and misuse in general. a number of our core processes, such as software development, sales and marketing, customer service and financial transactions, rely on our it infrastructure and applications. malicious software, sabotage and other cybersecurity breaches of the types discussed above could cause an outage of our infrastructure, which could lead to a substantial denial of service and ultimately to production downtime, recovery costs, and customer claims. this could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, or cash flows. we have implemented a number of measures designed to ensure the security of our information, it resources, and other assets. nonetheless, unauthorized users could gain access to our systems through cyber-attacks and steal, use without authorization, and sabotage our intellectual property and confidential data. any breach of our it security, misuse, or theft could lead to loss of production, to recovery costs, or to litigation brought by employees, customers or business partners, which could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, cash flows and reputation. dependence on channel partners. the company continues to distribute a meaningful portion of its products through its global network of independent, regional channel partners. the channel partners sell the company's software products to new and existing customers, expand installations within the existing customer base, offer consulting services and provide the first line of technical support. consequently, in certain geographies, the company is highly dependent upon the efforts of the channel partners. difficulties in ongoing relationships with channel partners, such as failure to meet performance criteria or to promote the company's products as aggressively as the company expects, and differences in the handling of customer relationships, could adversely affect the company's performance. additionally, the loss of any major channel partner for any reason, including a channel partner's decision to sell competing products rather than the company's products, could have a material, adverse effect on the company. moreover, the company's future success will depend substantially on the ability and willingness of its channel partners to continue to dedicate the resources necessary to promote the company's portfolio of products and to support a larger installed base of the company's products. if the channel partners are unable or unwilling to do so, the company may be unable to sustain revenue growth. during times of significant fluctuations in world currencies, certain channel partners may have solvency issues to the extent that effective hedge transactions are not employed or there is not sufficient working capital. in particular, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, certain channel partners who pay the company in u.s. dollars may have trouble paying the company on time or may have trouble distributing the company's products due to the impact of the currency exchange fluctuation on such channel partner's cash flows. this may impact the company's ability to distribute its products into certain regions and markets, and may have an adverse effect on the company's results of operations and cash flows. 12 table of contents reliance on perpetual licenses. although the company has historically maintained stable recurring revenue from the sale of software lease licenses and software maintenance subscriptions, it also has relied on sales of perpetual licenses that involve payment of a single, up-front fee and that are more typical in the computer software industry. while revenue generated from software lease licenses and software maintenance subscriptions currently represents a portion of the company's revenue, to the extent that perpetual license revenue continues to represent a significant percentage of total revenue, the company's revenue in any period will depend increasingly on sales completed during that period. renewal rates for annual lease and maintenance contracts.  a substantial portion of the company's license and maintenance revenue is derived from annual lease and maintenance contracts. these contracts are generally renewed on an annual basis and typically have a high rate of customer renewal. in addition to the recurring revenue base associated with these contracts, a majority of customers purchasing new perpetual licenses also purchase related annual maintenance contracts.  if the rate of renewal for these contracts is adversely affected by economic or other factors, the company's license and maintenance growth will be adversely affected over the term that the revenue for those contracts would have otherwise been recognized.  as a result, the company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may also be adversely impacted during those periods. risks associated with acquisitions.  historically, the company has consummated acquisitions in order to support the company's long-term strategic direction, accelerate innovation, provide increased capabilities to its existing products, supply new products and services, expand its customer base and enhance its distribution channels. in the future, the company may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or, if suitable candidates are identified, the company may not be able to complete the business combination on commercially acceptable terms. the process of exploring and pursuing acquisition opportunities may result in devotion of significant management and financial resources. even if the company is able to consummate acquisitions that it believes will be successful, such transactions present many risks. significant risks to such acquisitions include, among others: failing to achieve anticipated synergies and revenue increases; difficulty incorporating and integrating the acquired technologies or products with the company's existing product lines; difficulty in coordinating, establishing or expanding sales, distribution and marketing functions, as necessary; disruption of the company's ongoing business and diversion of management's attention to transition or integration issues; unanticipated and unknown liabilities; the loss of key employees, customers, partners and channel partners of the company or of the acquired company; and difficulties implementing and maintaining sufficient controls, policies and procedures over the systems, products and processes of the acquired company. if the company does not achieve the anticipated benefits of its acquisitions as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by the company's management and financial or industry analysts, or if others do not perceive the same benefits of the acquisition as the company, there could be a material, adverse effect on the company's stock price, business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, for companies acquired, limited experience will exist for several quarters following the acquisition relating to how the acquired company's sales pipelines will convert into sales or revenues and the conversion rate post-acquisition may be quite different than the historical conversion rate. because a substantial portion of the company's sales are completed in the latter part of a quarter, and its cost structure is largely fixed in the short-term, revenue shortfalls may have a negative impact on the company's profitability. a delay in a small number of large, new software license transactions could cause the company's quarterly software license revenues to fall significantly short of its predictions. risks associated with the esterel acquisition. on august 1, 2012, the company completed its acquisition of esterel, a leading provider of embedded software simulation and automatic generation of certified code solutions for mission critical applications. under the terms of the acquisition agreement, ansys acquired 100% of esterel for a purchase price of $58.2 million, which included $13.1 million in acquired cash. the acquisition agreement also includes retention provisions for key members of esterel's management and employees. the company funded the transaction entirely with existing cash balances. while the acquisition of esterel is expected to accelerate development and delivery of new and innovative products to the marketplace while lowering design and engineering costs for customers, the company will need to meet significant challenges to realize the expected benefits and synergies of the acquisition. these challenges include: • integrating the management teams, strategies, cultures and operations of the two companies. • retaining and assimilating the key personnel of each company. • integrating sales and business development operations. • retaining existing customers of each company. • developing new products and services that utilize the technologies and resources of both companies. 13 table of contents • creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems. • realizing the anticipated cost savings in the combined company. • combining the businesses of the company and esterel in a manner that neither materially disrupts esterel's existing customer relationships nor otherwise results in decreased revenues and that allows the company to capitalize on esterel's growth opportunities. the accomplishment of these post-acquisition objectives will involve considerable risks, including: • the loss of key employees that are critical to the successful integration and future operations of the companies. • the potential disruption of each company's ongoing business and distraction of their respective management teams. • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into the company's products and services. • unanticipated expenses related to technology integration. • potential disruptions in each company's operations; loss of existing customers; loss of key information, expertise or know-how; and unanticipated additional recruitment and training costs. • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect the company's ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquisition. the market price of the company's common stock may decline as a result of the acquisition for a number of reasons, including: • the integration of esterel by the company may be unsuccessful. • the company may not achieve the perceived benefits of the acquisition as rapidly as, or to the extent anticipated by, financial or industry analysts. • the effect of the acquisition on the company's financial results may not be consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. if the company does not succeed in addressing these challenges or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisition, its operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. disruption of operations or infrastructure failures. a significant portion of the company's software development personnel, source code and computer equipment is located at operating facilities in the united states, canada, india, japan and throughout europe. the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unforeseen catastrophe at any of these facilities could cause interruptions in the company's operations, services and product development activities. additionally, if the company experiences problems that impair its business infrastructure, such as a computer virus, telephone system failure or an intentional disruption of its information technology systems by a third party, these interruptions could have a material, adverse effect on the company's business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows and the ability to meet financial reporting deadlines. further, because the company's sales are not generally linear during any quarterly period, the potential adverse effects resulting from any of the events described above or any other disruption of the company's business could be accentuated if it occurs close to the end of a fiscal quarter. sales forecasts.  the company makes many operational and strategic decisions based upon short- and long-term sales forecasts. the company's sales personnel continually monitor the status of all proposals, including the estimated closing date and the value of the sale, in order to forecast quarterly sales. these forecasts are subject to significant estimation and are impacted by many external factors, including global economic conditions and the performance of the company's customers. a variation in actual sales activity from that forecasted could cause the company to plan or to budget incorrectly and, therefore, could adversely affect the company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. the company's management team forecasts macroeconomic trends and developments, and integrates them through long-range planning into budgets, research and development strategies and a wide variety of general management duties. global economic conditions, and the effect those conditions and other disruptions in global markets have on the company's customers, may have a significant impact on the accuracy of the company's sales forecasts. these conditions may increase the likelihood or the magnitude of variations between actual sales activity and the company's sales forecasts and, as a result, the company's 14 table of contents performance may be hindered because of a failure to properly match corporate strategy with economic conditions. this, in turn, may adversely affect the company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. risks associated with significant sales to existing customers. a significant portion of the company's sales includes follow-on sales to existing customers that invest in the company's broad suite of engineering simulation software and services. if a significant number of current customers were to become dissatisfied with the company's products and services, or choose to license or utilize competitive offerings, the company's follow-on sales, and recurring lease and maintenance revenues, could be materially, adversely impacted, resulting in reduced revenue, operating margins, net income and cash flows. income tax estimates.  the company makes significant estimates in determining its worldwide income tax provision. these estimates involve complex tax regulations in a number of jurisdictions across the company's global operations and are subject to many transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. the final outcome of tax matters could be different than the estimates reflected in the historical income tax provision and related accruals. such differences could have a material impact on income tax expense and net income in the periods in which such determinations are made. the amount of income tax paid by the company is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. these audits can often result in additional assessments, including interest and penalties. the company's estimate for liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions is highly judgmental and actual future outcomes may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the company's estimated tax liabilities, including estimates for uncertain tax positions, in the period the assessments are made or resolved, audits are closed or when statutes of limitation on potential assessments expire. as a result, the company's effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly or annual basis. the company allocates a portion of its purchase price to goodwill and intangible assets. impairment charges associated with goodwill are generally not tax deductible and will result in an increased effective income tax rate in the period the impairment is recorded. the company has recorded significant deferred tax liabilities related to acquired intangible assets that are not deductible for tax purposes. these deferred tax liabilities are based on future statutory tax rates in the locations in which the intangible assets are recorded. any future changes in statutory tax rates would be recorded as an adjustment to the deferred tax liabilities in the period the change is announced, and could have a material impact on the company's effective tax rate during that period. periodic reorganization of sales force. the company relies heavily on its direct sales force. from time to time, the company reorganizes and makes adjustments to its sales force in response to such factors as management changes, performance issues, market opportunities and other considerations. these changes may result in a temporary lack of sales production and may adversely impact revenue in future quarters. there can be no assurance that the company will not restructure its sales force in future periods or that the transition issues associated with such a restructuring will not occur. regulatory compliance.  like all other public companies, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of the sec, including those that require the company to report on and receive an attestation from its independent registered public accounting firm regarding the company's internal control over financial reporting. compliance with these requirements causes the company to incur additional expenses and causes management to divert time from the day-to-day operations of the company. while the company anticipates being able to fully comply with these requirements, if it is not able to comply with the sarbanes-oxley reporting or attestation requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting, the company may be subject to sanctions by the sec or nasdaq. such sanctions could divert the attention of the company's management from implementing its business plan and could have an adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. as the company's stock is listed on the nasdaq global select market, the company is subject to the ongoing financial and corporate governance requirements of nasdaq. while the company anticipates being able to fully comply with these requirements, if it is not able to comply, the company's name may be published on nasdaq's daily non-compliant companies list until nasdaq determines that it has regained compliance or the company no longer trades on nasdaq. if the company were unable to return to compliance with the governance requirements of nasdaq, the company may be delisted from the nasdaq global select market, which could have an adverse effect on the market value of the company's equity securities and the ability to raise additional capital. governmental revenue sources.  the company's sales to the united states government must comply with federal acquisition regulations. failure to comply with these regulations could result in penalties being assessed against the company or an order preventing the company from making future sales to the united states government. further, the company's international activities must comply with the export control laws of the united states, the foreign corrupt practices act and a variety of other laws and regulations of the united states and other countries in which the company operates. failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could adversely affect the company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 15 table of contents in certain circumstances, the united states government, state and local governments and their respective agencies, and certain foreign governments may have the right to terminate contractual arrangements at any time, without cause. the united states, european union and certain other government contracts, as well as the company's state and local level contracts, are subject to the approval of appropriations or funding authorizations.  certain of these contracts permit the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including, but not limited to, termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business, any of which could have an adverse effect on the company's results of operations and cash flows. contingencies.  the company is subject to various investigations, claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, including alleged infringement of intellectual property rights, commercial disputes, labor and employment matters, tax audits and other matters. each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties, and it is possible that an unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could materially affect the company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position. changes in existing financial accounting standards. changes in existing accounting rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements could have a significant, adverse effect on the company's results of operations or the manner in which the company conducts its business. changes in tax law.  the company's operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the united states and in multiple foreign jurisdictions. a change in the tax law in the jurisdictions in which the company does business, including an increase in tax rates or an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, could result in a material increase in tax expense. currently, a substantial portion of the company's revenue is generated from customers located outside the united states, and a substantial portion of assets are located outside the united states. united states income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for non-united states subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. changes in existing taxation rules or practices, new taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current taxation practices could have a material, adverse effect on the company's results of operations or the manner in which the company conducts its business. the company has significant operations in india.  there have been court rulings concerning certain indian tax laws that have been inconsistent with tax positions taken by the company and inconsistent with the advice provided to the company by its tax advisors. an indian subsidiary of the company received a formal inquiry after a service tax audit. the service tax issues raised in the company’s notice are very similar to the case, m/s microsoft corporation (i) (p) ltd. vs commissions of service tax, currently being appealed to the delhi customs, excise and service tax appellate tribunal (cestat). if the ruling is in favor of microsoft, the company expects a similar outcome for its audit case. if the ruling is unfavorable in the case of microsoft, the company could incur tax charges and related liabilities, including those related to the service tax audit case, of $6 million. of the two judicial members assigned to the microsoft appeal, one member has ruled in favor of microsoft and one has ruled in favor of the commission. a third deciding judge will be appointed for a final decision. the company can provide no assurances as to the outcome of the microsoft appeal or to the impact of the microsoft appeal on the company’s audit case. the company is uncertain as to when the service tax audit will be completed. other court cases are pending in india that could have a material impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows if the ultimate outcome of those cases is similarly inconsistent with tax positions taken by the company. item 1b. unresolved