item 1a. risk factors the following “risk factors” contain important information about us and our business and should be read in their entirety. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we now believe to be not material could also impair our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. as a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all of your investment. in this section, the terms the “company,” “we”, “our” and “us” refer to antares pharma, inc. risks related to our operations we have incurred significant losses to date, and there is no guarantee that we will ever become profitable. we incurred net losses of $11,427,450 and $4,387,920 in the fiscal years ended 2012 and 2011, respectively. in addition, we have accumulated aggregate net losses from the inception of business through december 31, 2012 of $152,789,165. the costs for research and product development of our product candidates and drug delivery technologies along with marketing and selling expenses and general and administrative expenses have been the principal causes of our losses. we may not ever become profitable and if we do not become profitable your investment would be harmed. we may need additional capital in the future in order to continue our operations. in october 2012, we sold 12,500,000 shares of common stock at a price of $4.00 per share in a public offering, and in november 2012 we sold 1,759,868 shares of common stock at $4.00 per share as a result of the partial exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option. the sales of common stock resulted in net proceeds of $53,328,188 after deducting offering expenses of $3,711,284. in may 2011, we sold a total of 14,375,000 shares of common stock at a price of $1.60 per share in a public offering, which resulted in net proceeds of $21,280,718 after deducting offering expenses of $1,719,282. in addition, we received proceeds from warrant and stock option exercises of $11,579,413 and $6,020,436 in 2012 and 2011, respectively. if in the future we do not turn profitable or generate cash from operations and additional capital is needed to support operations, economic and market conditions may make it difficult to raise additional funds through debt or equity financings. at december 31, 2012 we had cash and investments of $85,225,593. the combination of our current cash and investments balance and projected product sales, product development, license revenues, milestone payments and royalties should provide us with sufficient funds to support operations. however, if funds are not sufficient to support operations, we may need to pursue a financing or reduce expenditures to meet our cash requirements. if we do obtain such financing, we cannot assure that the amount or the terms of such financing will be as attractive as we may desire. if we are unable to obtain such financing when needed, or if the amount of such financing is not sufficient, it may be necessary for us to take significant cost saving measures or generate funding in ways that may negatively affect our business in the future. to reduce expenses, we may be forced to make personnel reductions or curtail or discontinue development programs. to generate funds, it may be necessary to monetize future royalty streams, sell intellectual property, divest of technology platforms or liquidate assets. however, there is no assurance that, if required, we will be able to generate sufficient funds or reduce spending to provide the required liquidity. long-term capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the status of collaborative arrangements, the progress of research and development programs and the receipt of revenues from sales of products. our ability to achieve and/or sustain profitable operations depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following:   • our ability to successfully develop our own product candidates such as otrexup™ and vibex™ qs t;   • our ability to successfully launch and sell our products if we choose not to partner the product;   • our ability to manufacture products efficiently, at the appropriate commercial scale, and with the required quality;   • timing of our partners’ development, regulatory and commercialization plans;   • the demand for our technologies from current and future pharmaceutical partners;   27 table of contents • our ability to increase and continue to outsource manufacturing capacity to allow for new product introductions;   • the level of product competition and of price competition;   • patient acceptance of our current and future products;   • our ability to obtain reimbursement for our products from third party payers;   • our ability to develop additional commercial applications for our products;   • our ability to obtain regulatory approvals;   • our ability to attract the right personnel to execute our plans;   • our ability to develop, maintain or acquire patent positions;   • our ability to control costs; and   • general economic conditions. we are currently preparing for the fda approval and commercial launch of otrexup™ and as a company we have limited marketing and no sales capabilities. we currently are in the process of building a commercial organization for the sales and marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products, and as a company, we have limited experience commercializing pharmaceutical products on our own. in order to commercialize otrexup™, we must build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. the establishment and development of our own commercial organization to market otrexup™ and any additional products we may develop will be expensive and time-consuming and could delay any product launch, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop this capability. we will also have to compete with other pharmaceutical companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel. to the extent we rely on additional third parties to commercialize otrexup™, such as pharmaceutical partners or third party contract sales organizations, we may receive less revenues or incur more expenses than if we commercialized otrexup™ ourselves. in addition, we may have limited control over the sales efforts of any third parties involved in our commercialization efforts. in the event we are unable to fully develop our own commercial organization or collaborate with a third-party sales and marketing organization or enter into co-promotion agreements, we may not be able to commercialize otrexup™ and execute on our business plan. if we are unable to successfully implement our commercial plans and drive adoption by patients and physicians of otrexup™ through our sales, marketing and commercialization efforts, or if our partners fail to successfully commercialize otrexup™, then we may not be able to generate sustainable revenues from product sales which will have a material adverse effect on our business and future product opportunities. similarly, we may not be successful in establishing the necessary commercial infrastructure, including managed care, medical affairs and pharmacovigilance teams. if we do not rapidly expand our internal sales and marketing capabilities and establish the necessary infrastructure or if our efforts to do so take more time and expense than anticipated, our ability to market and sell otrexup™ may be adversely affected. commercialization of otrexup™ will require significant resources and if we do not receive fda approval or achieve the sales expected we may lose the substantial investment made in otrexup™. we have made and are continuing to make substantial expenditures in advance of commercializing otrexup™ and our other product candidates. we are devoting substantial resources to building our manufacturing and assembly equipment for otrexup™ as well as building commercial supply inventories of otrexup™ to support potential commercialization. we have and expect to continue to devote substantial resources to establish and maintain a marketing capability for otrexup™. these costs have increased as we near the potential launch of otrexup™. if otrexup™ or other products we develop are not approved for commercial sale, we may be unable to recover the large investment we have made in research, development, manufacturing and marketing efforts, and our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   28 table of contents the failure of any of our third-party licensees to develop, obtain regulatory approvals for, market, distribute and sell our products as planned may result in us not meeting revenue and profit targets. pharmaceutical company partners such as teva help us develop, obtain regulatory approvals for, manufacture and sell our products. if one or more of these pharmaceutical company partners fail to pursue the development or marketing of the products as planned, our revenues and profits may not reach expectations or may decline. we may not be able to control the timing and other aspects of the development of products because pharmaceutical company partners may have priorities that differ from ours. therefore, commercialization of products under development may be delayed unexpectedly. the success of the marketing organizations of our pharmaceutical company partners, as well as the level of priority assigned to the marketing of the products by these entities, which may differ from our priorities, will determine the success of the products incorporating our technologies. competition in this market could also force us to reduce the prices of our technologies below currently planned levels, which could adversely affect our revenues and future profitability. we are currently working with teva on four products (vibex™ with epinephrine, vibex™ with sumatriptan and 2 undisclosed pen products) for which we are anticipating approval and launch in the 2014 to 2016 timeframe. additionally, we are working with pfizer on an undisclosed product for which we are anticipating approval and launch in 2016. there is no assurance that development of these products will continue or that they will receive fda approval or if fda approved they will be a significant revenue source for us. we currently depend on a limited number of customers for the majority of our revenue, and the loss of any one of these customers could substantially reduce our revenue and impact our liquidity. for the year ended december 31, 2012, we derived approximately 33% of our revenue from teva, 30% from actavis and 22% from ferring. for the year ended december 31, 2011, we derived approximately 50% of our revenue from teva and 35% from ferring. the revenue from teva was product sales, royalties and license and development revenue. the revenue from actavis was product sales, manufacturing start-up and other development activities, royalties and a milestone payment deferred at december 31, 2011 that was recognized in 2012. although significant in 2012, actavis product sales and development revenue is expected to be minimal in 2013, as actavis is assuming manufacturing responsibilities in early 2013. the revenue from ferring was primarily product sales and royalties. the loss of any of these significant customers or partners or reduction in our business activities could cause our revenues to decrease significantly, increase our continuing losses from operations and, ultimately, could require us to cease operations. if we cannot broaden our customer base, we will continue to depend on a few customers for the majority of our revenues. additionally, if we are unable to negotiate favorable business terms with these customers in the future, our revenues and gross profits may be insufficient to allow us to achieve and/or sustain profitability or continue operations. we have entered into four license, development and/or supply agreements for five potential products since november of 2005 with teva or an affiliate of teva. to date we have received fda approval of one of those products, the tjet® needle-free device for use with teva’s 5mg tev-tropin® brand hgh. teva is currently marketing the tjet® device to its patients and we expect product sales and royalties from this product into the future. although certain upfront, milestone and development payments have been received for the other programs with teva, timelines have been extended and there can be no assurance that there ever will be commercial sales or future milestone payments under these other agreements. we have a license agreement with ferring, under which ferring commercialized our needle-free injection system with their 4mg and 10mg hgh formulations marketed as zomajet® 2 vision and zomajet® vision x, respectively, in europe and asia. we receive a purchase price and a royalty for each device sold to ferring and a royalty on their hgh sales if we meet certain product quality metrics. although these products have been on the market for many years, there can be no assurance that ferring will continue to use our device or that approval of new devices developed by us will occur. in july 2011, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with actavis (formerly watson) for actavis to commercialize, in the u.s. and canada, our topical oxybutynin gel 3% product, which was subsequently approved by the fda in december 2011. under terms of the agreement, actavis has made payments for certain manufacturing start-up activities and milestone payments based on the achievement of regulatory approval. additionally, milestone payments will be made upon the achievement of certain sales levels. upon launch of the   29 table of contents product, we began receiving royalties based on product sales in the u.s. and canada for both our oxybutynin gel 3% product and their oxybutynin gel product gelnique® 10%. in 2013, actavis will assume all responsibility for manufacture and supply of the product. although milestone payments and royalties have been received from actavis, there is no assurance that future sales based milestones or significant royalties will be received under this agreement. in december 2011, we announced that we licensed one of our drug delivery technologies to pfizer inc.’s consumer healthcare business unit to develop an undisclosed product on an exclusive basis for north america. pfizer will assume full cost and responsibility for all clinical development, manufacturing, and commercialization of the product in the licensed territory, which also includes certain non-exclusive territories outside of north america. we received an upfront payment, and will receive development milestones and sales based milestones, as well as royalties on net sales for three years post launch in the u.s. although an upfront payment has been received, there can be no assurance that there ever will be commercial sales or future milestone payments or royalties under this agreement. we have recently become more commercially oriented by further developing our own products and less dependent on our pharmaceutical partners, and we may not have sufficient resources to fully execute our plan. we must make choices as to the drugs that we develop on our own. we may not make the correct choice of drug or technologies when combined with a drug, which may not be accepted by the marketplace as we expected or at all. fda approval processes for the drugs and drugs with devices may be longer in time and/or more costly and/or require more extended clinical evaluation than anticipated. funds required to bring our own products to market may be more than anticipated or may not be available at all. we have limited experience in bringing such products to market; therefore, we may experience difficulties in execution of development of internal product candidates. we are currently developing otrexup™ with a view to potentially market this product ourselves. there is no guarantee that the development will be successful or if successful that we will market the product effectively. if we do not develop and maintain relationships with manufacturers of our drug products or candidates, then we may be unable to successfully manufacture and sell our pharmaceutical products. we do not possess the facilities to manufacture commercial quantities of our vibex™ mtx product, otrexup™, or any other of our future drug candidates. we must contract with manufacturers to produce products according to government regulations. our future development and delivery of our product candidates depends on the timely, profitable and competitive performance of these manufacturers. a limited number of manufacturers exist which are capable of manufacturing our product candidates. we may fail to contract with the necessary manufacturers or we may contract with manufactures on terms that may not be favorable to us. our manufacturers must obtain fda approval for their manufacturing processes, and we have no control over this approval process. additionally, use of contract manufacturers exposes us to risks in the manufacturer’s business such as their potential inability to perform from a technical, operational or financial standpoint. we have entered into multiple commercial supply agreements with third-party manufacturers, including:     • the production of the methotrexate drug substance in pre-filled syringes;     • the final assembly and packaging of otrexup™ in medi-jet auto injectors;     • the supply of the methotrexate drug substance;     • the manufacture and partial assembly of medi-jet auto injectors; and     • the manufacture of prefillable syringes. reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including:   • reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance, quality assurance and adequate training in management of manufacturing staff;     • the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; and     • the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us.   30 table of contents we depend on these third party manufacturers to comply with current good manufacturing practice regulations (cgmps) enforced by the fda and other regulatory requirements and to deliver materials on a timely basis. in addition, because regulatory approval to manufacture a drug is generally site-specific, the fda and other regulatory authorities will repeatedly inspect our current and future third-party manufacturers’ facilities for compliance with cgmps. if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may issue warning letters or suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval for approved or in-market products, among other things. any of these actions could delay our development of products, delay the submission of these products for regulatory approval or result in insufficient product quantity to support commercial demand. as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. see additional risk factors associated with manufacturing in the section “risks related to regulatory matters.” we had contracted with a commercial supplier of pharmaceutical chemicals to supply us with the active pharmaceutical ingredient of oxybutynin for commercial quantities of gelnique 3%™ in a manner that meets fda requirements via reference of their dmf for oxybutynin. additionally, we had contracted with patheon, a manufacturing development company, to supply commercial quantities of gelnique 3%™ in a manner that meets fda requirements. in 2013, all manufacturing responsibility related to gelnique 3%™ will be transferred to actavis. if we do not develop and maintain relationships with manufacturers of our device products, then we may be unable to successfully manufacture and sell our device products. our device manufacturing for our needle-free device has involved the assembly of products from machined stainless steel and composite components in limited quantities. our planned future device business may necessitate changes and additions to our contract manufacturing and assembly process due to the anticipated larger scale of manufacturing in our business plan. our devices must be manufactured in compliance with regulatory requirements, in a timely manner and in sufficient quantities while maintaining quality and acceptable manufacturing costs. in the course of these changes and additions to our manufacturing and production methods, we may encounter difficulties, including problems involving scale-up, yields, quality control and assurance, product reliability, manufacturing costs, existing and new equipment and component supplies, any of which could result in significant delays in production. we operate under a manufacturing agreement with minnesota rubber and plastics (“mrp”), a contract manufacturing company, who manufactures and assembles our needle-free devices and certain related disposable component parts for our partners teva, ferring and jcr. there can be no assurance that mrp will be able to continue to meet these regulatory requirements or our own quality control standards. therefore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully produce and manufacture our products. our pharmaceutical partners retain the right to audit the quality systems of our manufacturing partner, and there can be no assurance that mrp will be successful in these audits. any of these failures would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we will also continue to outsource manufacturing of our future disposable injection products to third parties. such products will be price sensitive and may be required to be manufactured in large quantities, and we have no assurance that this can be done. additionally, use of contract manufacturers exposes us to risks in the manufacturers’ business such as their potential inability to perform from a technical, operational or financial standpoint. we have contracted with nypro, an international manufacturing development company to commercialize our vibex™ pressure assisted auto injector device, used in such products as our epinephrine auto injector for teva and our proprietary otrexup™ methotrexate system, in compliance with fda qsr regulations. any failure by nypro to successfully manufacture the pressure assisted auto injector device in commercial quantities, be in compliance with regulatory regulations, or pass the audits by our internal quality and regulatory group or pharmaceutical partner would have a negative impact on our future revenue expectations.   31 table of contents we rely on third parties to supply components for our products, and any failure to retain relationships with these third parties could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products. certain of our technologies contain a number of customized components manufactured by various third parties. regulatory requirements applicable to manufacturing can make substitution of suppliers costly and time-consuming. in the event that we could not obtain adequate quantities of these customized components from our suppliers, there can be no assurance that we would be able to access alternative sources of such components within a reasonable period of time, on acceptable terms or at all. the unavailability of adequate quantities, the inability to develop alternative sources, a reduction or interruption in supply or a significant increase in the price of components could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and market our products. if transdermal gels do not achieve greater market acceptance, we may not realize significant revenue from these products. because transdermal gels are not a widely understood method of drug delivery, our partners and consumers may have little experience with such products. our assumption of value may not be shared by the partner and consumer. to date, transdermal gels have gained successful entry into only a limited number of markets such as the testosterone replacement market and the pain market. there can be no assurance that transdermal gels will ever gain market acceptance beyond these markets sufficient to allow us to achieve and/or sustain profitable operations in this product area. elestrin®, our transdermal estradiol gel, was launched by biosante’s marketing partner bradley in june 2007. bradley was acquired by nycomed in february 2008. biosante reacquired elestrin® from nycomed and in december 2008 relicensed all manufacturing, distribution and marketing responsibilities of elestrin® to azur. in january 2012 azur was acquired by jazz. elestrin® is currently being marketed in the u.s. by meda, who recently acquired the product from jazz. the multiple licenses of elestrin® and shifting marketing responsibilities has had a negative impact on the marketing efforts of elestrin® and to date, the market penetration of elestrin® has been low. gelnique 3%, our transdermal oxybutynin product, competes in a large market dominated by oral products. to date, transdermal products such as gels and patches have not had overwhelming success in gaining market share. gelnique 3% was launched in april 2012 by our partner actavis. we are aware that actavis has been sampling the product heavily to physicians like most new product launches, but at this early stage of the product launch we cannot determine what effect, if any, the sampling program has had or will have on general market acceptance or future growth of the product. as health insurance companies and other third-party payers increasingly challenge the products and services for which they will provide coverage, our individual consumers may not be able to receive adequate reimbursement or may be unable to afford to use our products, which could substantially reduce our revenues and negatively impact our business as a whole. our injector device products are currently sold in the european community and elsewhere for use with human growth hormone and in the united states for use with human growth hormone and insulin. in the case of human growth hormone, our products are generally provided to users at no cost by the drug supplier. although it is impossible for us to identify the amount of sales of our products that our customers will submit for payment to third-party insurers, at least some of these sales may be dependent in part on the availability of adequate reimbursement from these third-party healthcare payers. currently, insurance companies and other third-party payers reimburse the cost of certain products on a case-by-case basis and may refuse reimbursement if they do not perceive benefits to a product’s use in a particular case. third-party payers are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and devices, and there can be no assurance that such third-party payers will not in the future increasingly reject claims for coverage of the cost of certain of our products. additionally, even if the product is covered, third party payers are continually seeking larger rebates from the manufacturers of the products for product coverage resulting in less net sales of the product. insurance and third-party payer practice vary from country to country, and changes in practices could negatively affect our business if the cost burden for our technologies were shifted more to the patient. therefore, there can be no assurance that adequate levels of reimbursement will be available to enable us to achieve or maintain market acceptance of our products or technologies or maintain price levels sufficient to realize profitable operations. there is also a possibility of increased government control or influence over a broad range of healthcare expenditures in the future. any such trend could negatively impact the market for our drug delivery products and technologies.   32 table of contents elestrin®, for which we receive royalties from our partner based on net commercial sales, was launched in june 2007. since it is not our product, we have no way of knowing at this time if health insurance companies’ reimbursement has negatively impacted patient use of elestrin®. the sales of elestrin® are growing month over month but continue to be modest. gelnique 3%, for which we receive royalties from our partner based on net sales, was launched in april 2012. it is too early at this point to determine if third party reimbursement has had an impact on product acceptance. our tjet® device was launched by teva in the u.s. in 2009 for use with teva’s hgh, tev-tropin®. although teva currently provides the device and disposables at no cost to the patient, the amount of health insurance reimbursement of tev-tropin® has a direct impact on the device product sales and royalty due from teva to us. additionally, teva has provided significant rebates to third party payers, which reduces net sales of tev-tropin® thus reducing the royalty payable to us. the loss of any existing licensing agreements or the failure to enter into new licensing agreements could substantially affect our revenue. one of our business strategies to reduce development risk is to enter into license agreements with pharmaceutical companies covering the development, manufacture, use and marketing of our drug delivery devices with specific drug therapies. under these arrangements, the partners typically assist us in the development of the product and sponsor the collection of the appropriate data for submission for regulatory approval of the use of the drug delivery device with the licensed drug therapy. our licensees may also be responsible for distribution and marketing of the product or technologies for these therapies either worldwide or in specific territories. we are currently a party to a number of such agreements, all of which are currently in varying stages of development. we may not be able to meet future milestones established in our agreements (such milestones generally being structured around satisfactory completion of certain phases of clinical development, regulatory approvals and commercialization of our product) and thus, would not receive the fees expected from such arrangements, related future royalties or product sales. moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in executing additional collaborative agreements or that existing or future agreements will result in increased sales of our drug delivery technologies or products. in such event, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, and our revenues and gross profits may be insufficient to allow us to achieve and/or sustain profitability. as a result of our collaborative agreements, we are dependent upon the development, data collection and marketing efforts of our licensees. the amount and timing of resources such licensees devote to these efforts are not within our control, and such licensees could make material decisions regarding these efforts that could adversely affect our future financial condition and results of operations. in addition, factors that adversely impact the introduction and level of sales of any drug or drug device covered by such licensing arrangements, including competition within the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, the timing of regulatory or other approvals and intellectual property litigation, may also negatively affect sales of our drug delivery technology. we are relying on partners such as teva, ferring, actavis and pfizer for future milestone, sales and royalty revenue. any or all of these partners may never commercialize a product with our technologies or significant delays in anticipated launches of these products may occur. any potential loss of anticipated future revenue could have an adverse effect on our business and the value of your investment. if we cannot develop and market our products as rapidly or cost-effectively as our competitors, then we may never be able to achieve profitable operations. competitors in the methotrexate, overactive bladder, injector device and other markets, some with greater resources and experience than us, may enter these markets, as there is an increasing recognition of a need for less invasive methods of delivering drugs. our success depends, in part, upon maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies in rapidly evolving fields. if we cannot maintain competitive products and technologies, our current and potential pharmaceutical company partners may choose to adopt the drug delivery technologies of our competitors. companies that compete with our injector based technologies include ypsomed, owen mumford, elcam, shl, bioject medical technologies, inc., haselmeier, bespak-consort medical, west   33 table of contents pharmaceuticals and becton dickinson, along with other companies. we also compete generally with other drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies engaged in the development of alternative drug delivery technologies or new drug research and testing. the rheumatoid arthritis market, which is the main focus of our efforts for otrexup™, is intensely competitive. we face competition with respect to otrexup™ from major pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. potential competitors also include academic institutions and other public and private research institutions that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. our competitors may develop products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects, are more convenient or are less costly than otrexup™. our competitors may also obtain fda or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for otrexup™. in the rheumatoid arthritis market we face competition from several branded and generic products, many from larger companies that have more experience and greater resources than does our company. competition in the rheumatoid arthritis market includes tablets and parenteral forms of methotrexate that are currently marketed in the u.s. by several generic manufacturers, including teva, mylan, roxane, bedford labs, app pharmaceuticals and hospira. in several european countries, canada, and south korea, medac international or its licensees market methotrexate in prefilled syringes (metoject®). other commonly used pharmaceutical treatments for rheumatoid arthritis include analgesics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids), corticosteroids, so-called disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (dmards) and biologic response modifiers. in addition to methotrexate, the dmards include azathioprine (imuran®), cyclosporine (neoral®), hydroxychloroquine (plaquenil®), auranofin (ridura®), leflunomide (arava®) and sulfasalazine (azulfidine®). the biologic response modifiers include blockbuster products etanercept (enbrel®), adalimumab (humira®), golimumab (simponi®), tocilizumab (actemra®), certolizumab (cimzia®), infliximab (remicaid®), abatacept (orencia®), and rituximab (rituxan®). they are often prescribed in combination with dmards such as methotrexate. the biologics price competition and innovation act permits the fda to approve biosimilar versions of biological products like humira®, enbrel®, simponi®, cimzia®, orencia®, actemra®, rituxan® and remicaid® through an abbreviated approval pathway. this regulatory pathway could result in earlier entry of lower-cost biosimilars which could lower our value proposition of otrexup™ relative to that of costlier branded biologics. the approval of lower-cost biosimilar products could decrease the revenue we receive for otrexup. many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing and distributing approved products than we do. smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. these competitors also compete with us in acquiring products, product candidates and technologies complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. although not currently approved for subcutaneous administration, we may face competition from generic versions of injectable methotrexate offered at substantially lower cost. manufacturers may seek approval to market low cost generic products without the cost and benefit of an auto injector which could appeal to third party payers and reduce the market penetration of otrexup™. additionally, injection technologies are mostly used with drugs for which oral drug delivery methods are not possible. many companies, both large and small, are engaged in research and development efforts on less invasive methods of delivering drugs that cannot be taken orally or effectively developing an oral product that was once thought not possible. the successful development and commercial introduction of such non-injection techniques could have an adverse effect on our business. although we have applied for, and have received, several patents, we may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents for our products and device technologies and to preserve our trade secrets and other proprietary information. if we cannot do so, our competitors may exploit our innovations and deprive us of the ability to realize revenues and profits from our developments.   34 table of contents we currently hold numerous patents and have numerous patent applications pending in the u.s. and other countries. our current patents may not be valid or enforceable and may not protect us against competitors that challenge our patents, obtain their own patents that may have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, or are able to otherwise circumvent our patents. additionally, our products and technologies are complex and one patent may not be sufficient to protect our products where a series of patents may be needed. further, we may not have the necessary financial resources to enforce or defend our patents or patent applications. in addition, any patent applications we may have made or may make relating to inventions for our actual or potential products and technologies may not result in patents being issued or may result in patents that provide insufficient or incomplete coverage for our inventions. to protect our trade secrets and proprietary technologies and processes, we rely, in part, on confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and advisors. these agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure, or if others lawfully and independently develop the same or similar information. others may bring infringement claims against us, which could be time-consuming and expensive to defend. third parties may claim that the manufacture, use or sale of our drug delivery technologies infringe their patent rights. if such claims are asserted, we may have to seek licenses, defend infringement actions or challenge the validity of those patents in the patent office or the courts. if these are not resolved favorably, we may not be able to continue to develop and commercialize our product candidates. even if we were able to obtain rights to a third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors potential access to the same intellectual property. if we are found liable for infringement or are not able to have these patents declared invalid or unenforceable, we may be liable for significant monetary damages, encounter significant delays in bringing products to market or be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of products or methods of drug delivery covered by patents of others. any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. we may not have identified, or be able to identify in the future, united states or foreign patents that pose a risk of potential infringement claims. ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our product candidates as a result of patent infringement claims, which could potentially harm our business. in november 2008, meridian medical technologies (“meridian”) received u.s. patent 7,449,012 (“the ‘012 patent”) relating to a specific type of auto injector for use with epinephrine. the ‘012 patent is set to expire in september 2025. the ‘012 patent was listed in fda’s orange book in july 2009 under the epipen® nda. on july 21, 2009, meridian and king pharmaceuticals, inc. (“king”) received a copy of paragraph iv certification from teva giving notice that teva had filed an anda to commercialize an epinephrine injectable product and referring to our auto injector device and challenging the validity and alleging non-infringement of the ‘012 patent. on august 28, 2009, king and meridian filed suit against teva in the u.s. district court for the district of delaware asserting its ‘012 patent. on october 21, 2009, teva filed its answer asserting non-infringement and invalidity of the ‘012 patent. on november 3, 2011, meridian and king requested to dismiss their claims against teva involving the ‘012 patent, and the court entered the dismissal on november 7, 2011, removing the ‘012 patent from the litigation. in september 2010, king received u.s. patent no. 7,794,432 (“the ‘432 patent”) relating to certain features of an auto injector for use with epinephrine. the ‘432 patent is set to expire in september 2025. the ‘432 patent was listed in fda’s orange book in september 2010 under the epipen® nda. in november 2010, meridian and king received a copy of paragraph iv certification from teva challenging the validity and alleging non-infringement of the ‘432 patent. king and meridian filed an amended complaint, in the same litigation as the ‘012 patent, adding the ‘432 patent. in october 2010, pfizer announced it was acquiring king, and the acquisition was completed on or about march 1, 2011. on january 28, 2011, teva filed its answer asserting non-infringement and invalidity of the ‘432 patent.   35 table of contents on february 16, 2012, the case proceeded to trial in the u.s district court for the district of delaware. one day of the bench trial was held on that day. the court scheduled the remaining days of trial for march 7-9, 2012. on april 26, 2012 the company announced that meridian medical technologies, a pfizer subsidiary, entered into a settlement agreement with teva that would resolve pending patent litigation related to its abbreviated new drug application (anda) for a generic epinephrine auto injector. according to the terms of the settlement, teva may launch a generic epinephrine auto-injector covered by its anda on june 22, 2015 or earlier under certain circumstances, subject to receipt of approval from the u.s. food and drug administration. under a separate agreement, teva has agreed to provide the company with device orders of an undisclosed amount in the years 2013 and 2014, to make a milestone payment to the company upon fda approval of epinephrine auto-injector, and to assume all litigation costs related to the patent litigation between teva and meridian medical. although the litigation has been settled, there can be no assurance that the epinephrine auto injector product will be approved by the fda or that we will receive a milestone payment or royalties in the future under our agreement with teva. additionally, we are developing other products for teva under the anda pathway and there can be no assurance that those products do not follow the same type of litigation process of the epinephrine case which could delay or prohibit the launch of those potential products. if we do not have adequate insurance for product liability or clinical trial claims, then we may be subject to significant expenses relating to these claims. our business entails the risk of product liability and clinical trial claims. although we have not experienced any material claims to date, any such claims could have a material adverse impact on our business. insurance coverage is expensive and may be difficult to obtain, and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. we maintain product and clinical trial liability insurance with coverage of $5 million per occurrence and an annual aggregate maximum of $5 million and evaluate our insurance requirements on an ongoing basis. if we are subject to a product liability claim, our product liability insurance may not reimburse us, or may not be sufficient to reimburse us, for any expenses or losses that may have been suffered. a successful product liability claim against us, if not covered by, or if in excess of our product liability insurance, may require us to make significant compensation payments, which would be reflected as expenses on our statement of operations. adverse claim experience for our products or licensed technologies or medical device, pharmaceutical or insurance industry trends may make it difficult for us to obtain product liability insurance or we may be forced to pay very high premiums, and there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. additionally, if the coverage limits of the product liability insurance are not adequate, a claim brought against us, whether covered by insurance or not, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if we make any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and might never successfully integrate the acquired product or business into ours. we might attempt to acquire products or businesses that we believe are a strategic complement to our business model. we might encounter operating difficulties and expenditures relating to integrating an acquired product or business. these acquisitions might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. in addition, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. we might also make dilutive issuances of equity securities, incur debt or experience a decrease in cash available for our operations, or incur contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses relating to goodwill and other intangible assets, in connection with future acquisitions. risks related to regulatory matters we or our licensees may incur significant costs seeking approval for our products, which could delay the realization of revenue and, ultimately, decrease our revenues from such products.   36 table of contents the design, development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical compounds and medical devices are subject to regulation by governmental authorities, including the fda and comparable regulatory authorities in other countries. the approval process is generally lengthy, expensive and subject to unanticipated delays. currently we, along with our partners, are actively pursuing marketing approval for a number of products from regulatory authorities in other countries and anticipate seeking regulatory approval from the fda for products developed internally and pursuant to our license agreements. in the future we, or our partners, may need to seek approval for newly developed products. our revenue and profit will depend, in part, on the successful introduction and marketing of some or all of such products by our partners or us. applicants for fda approval often must submit extensive clinical data and supporting information to the fda. varying interpretations of the data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a drug product. changes in fda approval policy during the development period, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted nda also may cause delays or rejection of an approval. even if the fda approves a product, the approval may limit the uses or “indications” for which a product may be marketed, or may require further studies. the fda also can withdraw product clearances and approvals for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or if unforeseen problems follow initial marketing. we are developing our own combination products such as otrexup™ and vibex™ qs t (testosterone) as well as injection devices for use with our partner’s drugs. the regulatory path for approval of such combination products may be subject to review by several centers within the fda and although precedent and guidance exists for the requirements for such combination products, there is no assurance that the fda will not change what it requires or how it reviews such submissions. human clinical testing may be required by the fda in order to commercialize these products and devices and there can be no assurance that such trials will be successful. such changes in review processes or the requirement for clinical studies could delay anticipated launch dates or be at a cost which makes launching the product or device cost prohibitive for ourselves or our partners. such delay or failure to launch these products or devices could adversely affect our revenues and future profitability. in december 2012, we filed a new drug application for otrexup™ for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (ra), poly-articular-course juvenile ra and psoriasis. on february 26, 2013, the nda was accepted for filing by the fda. we cannot offer any assurances or predict with any certainty as to when or if the fda will approve otrexup™ for marketing. fda approval, if obtained, may be limited to specific indications, patient types in which the drug may be used, or otherwise require specific warning or labeling language, any of which might reduce the commercial potential of otrexup™. furthermore, previously unknown issues involving safety or efficacy could emerge or the company may fail to comply with post-approval regulatory requirements, including requirements with respect to manufacturing practices, reporting of adverse effects, advertising, promotion and marketing, which may result in restrictions on the marketing of otrexup™ or the withdrawal of otrexup™ from the market. in december 2008, one of our device partners, teva, filed an anda for their epinephrine product. the anda submission was accepted by the fda. teva is in the process of completing the work required for the submission. the submission of the anda does not ensure that the fda will approve the filing and without fda approval we cannot market or sell our injector for use with this drug product in the u.s. in 2007, our partner teva filed a second injector device with sumatriptan as an anda and the fda rejected such filing. the fda’s rejection was based primarily on the opinion that the device was sufficiently different than the innovator’s device not to warrant an anda. we redesigned the device to address the fda’s concern of device similarity and submitted the new device to the fda. the fda reactivated the anda file in 2010, and since that time we have successfully completed user studies and are scaling up commercial tooling and molds for the newly designed device. teva is completing some required manufacturing work related to the drug and we expect to submit the results later in 2013, then the fda is expected to complete its review of the anda, the timing of which is completely dependent on the fda. the reactivation of the anda does not ensure that the fda will approve the filing and without fda approval we cannot market or sell our injector for use with sumatriptan in the u.s. as part of our device regulatory strategy, we have filed three mafs with the fda. these mafs are reviewed as part of a product application review. amendments are made to the mafs as appropriate either because of design changes, additional test data or in response to questions from the fda. the submission of a maf does not guarantee that the maf contains all the information required for product approval.   37 table of contents in other jurisdictions, we, and the pharmaceutical companies with whom we are developing technologies (both drugs and devices), must obtain required regulatory approvals from regulatory agencies and comply with extensive regulations regarding safety and quality. if approvals to market the products are delayed, if we fail to receive these approvals, or if we lose previously received approvals, our revenues may not materialize or may decline. we may not be able to obtain all necessary regulatory approvals. additionally, clinical data that we generate or obtain from partners from fda regulatory filings may not be sufficient for regulatory filings in other jurisdictions and we may be required to incur significant costs in obtaining those regulatory approvals. in 2012, our partner daewoong filed with the regulatory agency in south korea for approval of our oxybutynin gel 3% product. we cannot offer any assurances or predict with any certainty as to when or if our oxybutynin gel 3% product will be approved for marketing in south korea. if approval is delayed or is not received, we may not realize any further revenues under this agreement. the 505(b)(2) and 505(j) (anda) regulatory pathway for many of our potential products is uncertain and could result in unexpected costs and delays of approvals. drug/device combination products indicated for the treatment of systemic or local treatments respectively are regulated by the fda in the u.s. and other similar regulatory agencies in other countries as drug products. drug/device combination products may not be marketed in the u.s. until they have been demonstrated to be safe and effective. the regulatory approval routes for drug/device combination products include the filing of an nda for new drugs, new indications of approved drugs or new dosage forms of approved drugs. alternatively, these dosage forms can obtain marketing approval as a generic product by the filing of an anda, providing the new generic product is bioequivalent to and has the same labeling as a comparable approved product or as a filing under section 505(b)(2) where there is an acceptable reference product. the combination of the drug, its dosage form and label claims and fda requirement will ultimately determine which regulatory approval route will be required. many of our drug/device combination product candidates may be developed via the 505(b)(2) route. the 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway is continually evolving and advice provided in the present is based on current standards, which may or may not be applicable when we potentially submit an nda. additionally, we must reference the most similar predicate products when submitting a 505(b)(2) application. it is therefore probable that:   • should a more appropriate reference product(s) be approved by the fda at any time before or during the review of our nda, we would be required to submit a new application referencing the more appropriate product;   • the fda cannot disclose whether such predicate product(s) is under development or has been submitted at any time during another company’s review cycle. drug delivery systems such as injectors are reviewed by the fda and may be legally marketed as a medical device or may be evaluated as part of the drug approval process. combination drug/device products raise unique scientific, technical and regulatory issues. the fda has established the ocp to address the challenges associated with the review and regulation of combination products. the ocp assists in determining strategies for the approval of drug/delivery combinations and assuring agreement within the fda on review responsibilities. we may seek approval for a product including an injector and a generic pharmaceutical by filing an anda claiming bioequivalence and the same labeling as a comparable referenced product or as a filing under section 505(b)(2) if there is an acceptable reference product. in reviewing the anda filing, the agency may decide that the unique nature of combination products allows them to dispute the claims of bioequivalence and/or same labeling resulting in our re-filing the application under section 505(b)(2). if such combination products require filing under section 505(b)(2) we may incur delays in product approval and may incur additional costs associated with testing including clinical trials. the result of an approval for a combination product under section 505(b)(2) may result in additional selling expenses and a decrease in market acceptance due to the lack of substitutability by pharmacies or formularies.   38 table of contents if the use of our injection devices require additions to or modifications of the drug labeling regulated by the fda, the review of this labeling may be undertaken by the fda’s office of surveillance and epidemiology (ose). additionally, the instructions for use (ifu) for a device in a drug/device combination product is also reviewed for accuracy, ease of use and educational requirements. these reviews could increase the time needed for review completion of a successful application and may require additional studies, such as usage studies, to establish the validity of the instructions. such reviews and requirement may extend the time necessary for the approval of drug-device combinations. such was the case for the approval of our needle-free device for use with hgh. the approval process took much more time than contemplated. accordingly, these regulations and the fda’s interpretation of them might impair our ability to obtain product approval or effectively market our products. our business could be harmed if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements and, as a result, are subject to sanctions. if we, or pharmaceutical companies with whom we are developing technologies, fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the pharmaceutical companies, and we, may be subject to sanctions, including the following:   • warning letters;   • fines;   • product seizures or recalls;   • injunctions;   • refusals to permit products to be imported into or exported out of the applicable regulatory jurisdiction;   • total or partial suspension of production;   • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; or   • criminal prosecutions. our revenues may be limited if the marketing claims asserted about our products are not approved. once a drug product is approved by the fda, the division of drug marketing, advertising and communication, the fda’s marketing surveillance department within the center for drugs, must approve marketing claims asserted by our pharmaceutical company partners. if we or a pharmaceutical company partner fails to obtain from the division of drug marketing acceptable marketing claims for a product incorporating our drug technologies, our revenues from that product may be limited. marketing claims are the basis for a product’s labeling, advertising and promotion. the claims the pharmaceutical company partners are asserting about our drug delivery technologies, or the drug product itself, may not be approved by the office of prescription drug promotion. risks related to our common stock future conversions or exercises by holders of warrants or options could dilute our common stock. as of march 4, 2013, we have warrants outstanding that are exercisable, at prices ranging from $1.00 per share to $3.78 per share, for an aggregate of approximately 2,963,000 shares of our common stock. we also have options outstanding that are exercisable, at exercise prices ranging from $0.37 to $4.26 per share, for an aggregate of approximately 7,734,000 shares of our common stock. purchasers of our common stock could therefore experience dilution of their investment upon exercise of the above warrants or options. sales of our common stock by our officers and directors may lower the market price of our common stock. as of march 4, 2013, our officers and directors beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 17,900,000 shares (or approximately 13.7%) of our outstanding common stock, including stock options exercisable within 60 days. if our officers and directors, or other stockholders, sell a substantial amount of our common stock, it could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease.   39 table of contents we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. we intend to retain any earnings in the foreseeable future for our continued growth and, thus, do not expect to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. anti-takeover effects of certain certificate of incorporation and bylaw provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent persons from acquiring or attempting to acquire us. our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors, without action of our stockholders, to designate and issue preferred stock in one or more series, with such rights, preferences and privileges as the board of directors shall determine. in addition, our bylaws grant our board of directors the authority to adopt, amend or repeal all or any of our bylaws, subject to the power of the stockholders to change or repeal the bylaws. in addition, our bylaws limit who may call meetings of our stockholders.   item 1b. unresolved