item 1a. risk factors the following “risk factors” contain important information about us and our business and should be read in their entirety. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we now believe to be not material could also impair our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. as a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all of your investment. in this section, the terms the “company,” “we”, “our” and “us” refer to antares pharma, inc. risks related to our operations we have incurred significant losses to date, and there is no guarantee that we will ever become profitable. we incurred net losses of $20,506,776 and $11,427,450 in the fiscal years ended 2013 and 2012, respectively. in addition, we have accumulated aggregate net losses from the inception of business through december 31, 2013 of $173,295,941. the costs for research and product development of our product candidates and drug delivery technologies along with marketing and selling expenses and general and administrative expenses have been the principal causes of our losses. we may not ever become profitable and if we do not become profitable your investment would be harmed. we may need additional capital in the future in order to continue our operations. in the fourth quarter of 2012, we sold 14,259,868 shares of common stock at a price of $4.00 per share in a public offering. the sale of common stock resulted in net proceeds of $53,328,188 after deducting offering expenses of $3,711,284. in addition, we received proceeds from warrant and stock option exercises of $2,326,838 and $11,579,413 in 2013 and 2012, respectively. if in the future we do not turn profitable or generate cash from operations and additional capital is needed to support operations, economic and market conditions may make it difficult to raise additional funds through debt or equity financings. at december 31, 2013 we had cash and investments of $69,089,710. the combination of our current cash and investments balance and projected product sales, product development, license revenues, milestone payments and royalties should provide us with sufficient funds to support operations. however, if funds are not sufficient to support operations, we may need to pursue a financing or reduce expenditures to meet our cash requirements. if we do obtain such financing, we cannot assure that the amount or the terms of such financing will be as attractive as we may desire. if we are unable to obtain such financing when needed, or if the amount of such financing is not sufficient, it may be necessary for us to take significant cost saving measures or generate funding in ways that may negatively affect our business in the future. to reduce expenses, we may be forced to make personnel reductions or curtail or discontinue development programs. to generate funds, it may be necessary to monetize future royalty streams, sell intellectual property, divest of technology platforms or liquidate assets. however, there is no assurance that, if required, we will be able to generate sufficient funds or reduce spending to provide the required liquidity.   28 table of contents long-term capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the status of collaborative arrangements, the progress of research and development programs and the receipt of revenues from sales of products. our ability to achieve and/or sustain profitable operations depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following:     •   our ability to successfully sell otrexup™;      •   our ability to successfully develop our own product candidates such as vibex® qs t;     •   the success of our partners in selling our products;     •   our ability to successfully sell future products if we choose not to partner the product;     •   our ability to manufacture products efficiently, at the appropriate commercial scale, and with the required quality;     •   timing of our partners’ development, regulatory and commercialization plans;     •   the demand for our technologies from current and future pharmaceutical partners;     •   our ability to increase and continue to outsource manufacturing capacity to allow for new product introductions;     •   the level of product competition and of price competition;     •   patient acceptance of our current and future products;     •   our ability to obtain reimbursement for our products from third party payers;     •   our ability to develop additional commercial applications for our products;     •   our ability to obtain regulatory approvals;     •   our ability to attract the right personnel to execute our plans;     •   our ability to develop, maintain or acquire patent positions;     •   our ability to control costs; and     •   general economic conditions. we have recently launched otrexup™ and as a company we have limited marketing and internal sales capabilities. we have recently commercially launched otrexup™. although we have hired highly qualified personnel with specialized expertise, as a company, we have limited experience commercializing pharmaceutical products on our own. in order to commercialize otrexup™, we have been building our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities and have made arrangements with third parties to perform these services when needed. we have engaged a third party contract sales organization, quintiles, to commercialize otrexup™ for ra in the u.s. and have provided leo pharma the exclusive right to commercialize otrexup™ in the u.s. for the treatment of psoriasis. to the extent we are relying on third parties to commercialize otrexup™, we may receive less revenues or incur more expenses than if we had commercialized otrexup™ ourselves. in addition, we may have limited control over the sales efforts of any third parties involved in our commercialization efforts. if we are unable to successfully implement our commercial plans and drive adoption by patients and physicians of otrexup™ through our sales, marketing and commercialization efforts, or if our partner fails to successfully commercialize otrexup™, then we may not be able to generate sustainable revenues from product sales which will have a material adverse effect on our business and future product opportunities. similarly, we may not be successful in establishing the necessary commercial infrastructure, including managed care, medical affairs and pharmacovigilance teams. the establishment and development of commercialization capabilities to market otrexup™ has been and will continue to be expensive and time-consuming. as we continue to develop these capabilities, we will have to compete with other pharmaceutical companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel. if we have underestimated the necessary sales and marketing capabilities or have not established the necessary infrastructure to support successful commercialization, or if our efforts to do so take more time and expense than anticipated, our ability to market and sell otrexup™ may be adversely affected. commercialization of otrexup™ will require significant resources and if we do not achieve the sales expected we may lose the substantial investment made in otrexup™. we have made and are continuing to make substantial expenditures commercializing otrexup™. we are devoting substantial resources to building our manufacturing and assembly equipment for otrexup™ as well as continued investment in commercial supply inventories of otrexup™ to support commercialization. we have and expect to continue to devote substantial resources to establish and maintain a marketing capability for otrexup™. these costs have increased as we have recently launched otrexup™. if we are unsuccessful in   29 table of contents our commercialization efforts and do not achieve the sales levels of otrexup™ that we expect, we may be unable to recover the large investment we have made in research, development, manufacturing, inventory and marketing efforts, and our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. our commercialization partner, leo pharma, may not successfully commercialize otrexup™ in the u.s. for the treatment of psoriasis. we have provided leo pharma (leo) an exclusive license to commercialize otrexup™ in the u.s. for the treatment of psoriasis. leo is solely responsible for all promotional and marketing activities related to otrexup™ for psoriasis. if leo fails to adequately market and promote otrexup™ or is unsuccessful in their efforts, we may receive less revenue than we desire or may receive less than if we had commercialized the product ourselves. we may disagree with leo as to sales and marketing tactics or the manner in which leo is positioning otrexup™. a breach by either party, or disagreement with leo, may lead to termination of the agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales level of otrexup™. we will rely on third parties to perform many necessary services for otrexup™, including services related to the distribution, invoicing, storage and transportation of our products. we have retained third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of our products, key aspects of which are out of our direct control. for example, we will rely on cardinal health 105, inc. (a/k/a specialty pharmaceutical services) to provide key services related to logistics, warehousing and inventory management, distribution, contract administration and chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and call center management, and, as a result, most of our finished goods inventory is stored at a single warehouse maintained by the service provider. we place substantial reliance on this provider as well as other third-party providers that perform services for us, including entrusting our inventories of products to their care and handling. if these third-party service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to meet expected deadlines, or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter physical damage or natural disaster at their facilities, our ability to deliver product to meet commercial demand would be significantly impaired. in addition, we utilize third parties to perform various other services for us relating to sample accountability and regulatory monitoring, including adverse event reporting, safety database management and other product maintenance services. if the quality or accuracy of the data maintained by these service providers is insufficient, our ability to continue to market our products could be jeopardized or we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. we do not currently have the internal capacity to perform these important commercial functions, and we may not be able to maintain commercial arrangements for these services on reasonable terms. if we do not develop and maintain relationships with manufacturers of our drug products or candidates, then we may be unable to successfully manufacture and sell our pharmaceutical products. we do not possess the facilities to manufacture commercial quantities of our drug/device combination product, otrexup™, or any other of our products or product candidates. we must contract with manufacturers to produce products according to government regulations. our future development and delivery of our product candidates depends on the timely, profitable and competitive performance of these manufacturers. a limited number of manufacturers exist which are capable of manufacturing our product candidates. we may fail to contract with the necessary manufacturers or we may contract with manufactures on terms that may not be favorable to us. our manufacturers must obtain fda approval for their manufacturing processes, and we have no control over this approval process. additionally, use of contract manufacturers exposes us to risks in the manufacturer’s business such as their potential inability to perform from a technical, operational or financial standpoint. we have entered into multiple commercial supply agreements with third-party manufacturers, including, without limitation:     •   the supply of the methotrexate drug substance;     •   the manufacture of prefillable syringes;     •   the production of the methotrexate drug substance in pre-filled syringes;     •   the manufacture and partial assembly of medi-jet auto injectors; and     •   the final assembly and packaging of otrexup™ in medi-jet auto injectors.   30 table of contents reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including:     •   reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance, quality assurance and adequate training in management of manufacturing staff;     •   the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; and     •   the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. we depend on these third party manufacturers to comply with current good manufacturing practice regulations (cgmps) enforced by the fda and other regulatory requirements and to deliver materials on a timely basis. in addition, because regulatory approval to manufacture a drug is generally site-specific, the fda and other regulatory authorities will repeatedly inspect our current and future third-party manufacturers’ facilities for compliance with cgmps. if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may issue warning letters or suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval for approved or in-market products, among other things. our third-party manufacturers may also fail to pass the audits by our internal quality and regulatory group. any of these actions could delay our development of products, delay the submission of these products for regulatory approval or result in insufficient product quantity to support commercial demand. as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. see additional risk factors associated with manufacturing in the section “risks related to regulatory matters.” the following are three of our significant third-party manufacturing arrangements. we have contracted with uman pharma (montreal, canada) to supply commercial quantities of methotrexate pre-filled syringes for the u.s and canadian markets for otrexup™. any failure by uman to successfully manufacture the methotrexate pre-filled syringes in commercial quantities, be in compliance with fda and other regulatory regulations, or pass the audits by our internal quality and regulatory group would have a negative impact on our future revenue expectations. we have contracted with nypro, an international manufacturing development company to commercialize our vibex® pressure assisted auto injector device, for our proprietary otrexup™ methotrexate system, in compliance with fda qsr regulations. any failure by nypro to successfully manufacture the pressure assisted auto injector device in commercial quantities, be in compliance with regulatory regulations, or pass the audits by our internal quality and regulatory group would have a negative impact on our future revenue expectations. we have contracted with sharp corporation (“sharp”), an international contract packaging company, to assemble and package otrexup™. sharp is subject to regulatory requirements covering, among other things, manufacturing, testing, quality control and record keeping relating to our product, and is subject to ongoing inspections by regulatory agencies. failure by sharp to comply with applicable regulations may result in long delays and interruptions to our supply of otrexup™, and increase our costs, while we seek to secure another contract packaging company who meets all regulatory requirements. accordingly, the loss of sharp or any of our current third-party manufacturers or suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we are dependent on numerous third parties in our supply chain for the commercial supply of otrexup™, most of which are currently single source suppliers, and if any of these single-source suppliers are not able to satisfy demand and alternative sources are not available, the manufacturing and distribution of otrexup™ could be delayed and our business could be harmed. we currently have the following single source suppliers in our supply chain for the commercial supply of otrexup™:     •   supplier of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (api) for methotrexate;     •   uman pharma for supply of commercial quantities of methotrexate pre-filled syringes;   31 table of contents   •   nypro for the supply of commercial quantities of the medi-jet auto injectors;     •   sharp corporation for assembly and packaging of otrexup™;     •   cardinal health 105, inc. (a/k/a specialty pharmaceutical services) for services related to logistics, warehousing and inventory management, distribution, contract administration and chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and call center management. we are currently working on qualifying a backup supplier for the pre-filled syringes of methotrexate and an additional supplier of methotrexate api. although we plan to qualify these and additional manufacturers and suppliers in our supply chain for otrexup™, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so and the current manufacturers and suppliers will likely be single source suppliers to us for a significant period of time. if any of these manufacturers is unable to supply its respective component for any reason, including due to violations of the fda’s quality system regulation, or qsr, requirements, our ability to manufacture the finished otrexup™ product will be adversely affected and our ability to meet the distribution requirements for any product sales of otrexup™ and the resulting revenue therefrom will be negatively affected. accordingly, there can be no assurance that any failure in any part of our supply chain will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from otrexup™, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. to mitigate some of the short-term risk of relying on single source suppliers, we intend to build a safety stock of component and finished goods inventories. however, there can be no assurance that these inventories will be adequate or that we will be able to maintain our desired level of safety stock. additionally, maintaining a high level of safety stock exposes us to additional risks such as excess and obsolete inventory if the sales volume of otrexup™ does not meet our forecasts. if we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate levels of coverage and reimbursement for otrexup™, or any of our other product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval, their commercial success may be severely hindered. successful sales of our products depend on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors. patients who are prescribed medicine for the treatment of their conditions generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the costs associated with their prescription drugs. adequate coverage and reimbursement from governmental healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid, and commercial payors is critical to new product acceptance. coverage decisions may depend upon clinical and economic standards that disfavor new drug products when more established or lower cost therapeutic alternatives are already available or subsequently become available. assuming coverage is approved; the resulting reimbursement payment rates might not be adequate or may require co-payments that patients find unacceptably high. patients are unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our products. in addition, the market for our products will depend significantly on access to third-party payors’ drug formularies, or lists of medications for which third-party payors provide coverage and reimbursement. the industry competition to be included in such formularies often leads to downward pricing pressures on pharmaceutical companies. also, third-party payors may refuse to include a particular branded drug in their formularies or otherwise restrict patient access to a branded drug when a less costly generic equivalent or other alternative is available. third-party payors, whether foreign or domestic, or governmental or commercial, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs. in addition, in the united states, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for drug products exists among third-party payors. therefore, coverage and reimbursement for drug products can differ significantly from payor to payor. further, we believe that future coverage and reimbursement will likely be subject to increased restrictions both in the united states and in international markets. third-party coverage and reimbursement for otrexup™ or any of our other product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval may not be available or adequate in either the united states or international markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.   32 table of contents our tjet® device was launched by teva in the u.s. in 2009 for use with teva’s hgh, tev-tropin®. although teva currently provides the device and disposables at no cost to the patient, the amount of health insurance reimbursement of tev-tropin® has a direct impact on the device product sales and royalty due from teva to us. additionally, teva has provided significant rebates to third party payors, which reduces net sales of tev-tropin® thus reducing the royalty payable to us. elestrin®, for which we receive royalties from our partner meda based on net commercial sales, was launched in june 2007. since it is not our product, we have no way of knowing if health insurance companies’ reimbursement has negatively impacted patient use of elestrin®. the sales of elestrin® are growing month over month but continue to be modest. gelnique 3%, for which we receive royalties from our partner actavis based on net sales, was launched in april 2012. actavis has provided significant rebates to third party payors, which reduces net sales of gelnique, thus reducing the royalty payable to us. the use of large rebates to the third party payors has not had a positive impact on the growth of gelnique prescriptions. the failure of any of our third-party licensees to develop, obtain regulatory approvals for, market, distribute and sell our products as planned may result in us not meeting revenue and profit targets. pharmaceutical company partners such as teva help us develop, obtain regulatory approvals for, manufacture and sell our products. if one or more of these pharmaceutical company partners fail to pursue the development or marketing of the products as planned, our revenues and profits may not reach expectations or may decline. we may not be able to control the timing and other aspects of the development of products because pharmaceutical company partners may have priorities that differ from ours. therefore, commercialization of products under development may be delayed unexpectedly. the success of the marketing organizations of our pharmaceutical company partners, as well as the level of priority assigned to the marketing of the products by these entities, which may differ from our priorities, will determine the success of the products incorporating our technologies. competition in this market could also force us to reduce the prices of our technologies below currently planned levels, which could adversely affect our revenues and future profitability. we are currently working with teva on four products (vibex® with epinephrine, vibex® with sumatriptan and 2 undisclosed pen products) for which we are anticipating approval and launch in the 2015 to 2016 timeframe. additionally, we are working with pfizer on an undisclosed product for which we are anticipating approval and launch in 2016. there is no assurance that development of these products will continue or that they will receive fda approval or if fda approved they will be a significant revenue source for us. we currently depend on a limited number of customers for the majority of our revenue, and the loss of any one of these customers could substantially reduce our revenue and impact our liquidity. for the year ended december 31, 2013, we derived approximately 66% of our revenue from teva, 19% from ferring and 7% from actavis. for the year ended december 31, 2012, we derived approximately 33% of our revenue from teva, 22% from ferring and 30% from actavis. the revenue from teva was product sales, royalties and license and development revenue. the revenue from actavis was product sales, manufacturing start-up and other development activities, royalties and a milestone payment that was recognized in 2012. although significant in 2012, actavis product sales and development revenue was minimal in 2013, as actavis assumed manufacturing responsibilities in early 2013. the revenue from ferring was primarily product sales and royalties. the loss of any of these significant customers or partners or reduction in our business activities could cause our revenues to decrease significantly and increase our continuing losses from operations. if otrexup™ is not successful and we cannot broaden our customer base, we will continue to depend on a few customers for the majority of our revenues. additionally, if we are unable to negotiate favorable business terms with these customers in the future, our revenues and gross profits may be insufficient to allow us to achieve and/or sustain profitability or continue operations.   33 table of contents we have entered into four license, development and/or supply agreements for five potential products since november of 2005 with teva or an affiliate of teva. to date we have received fda approval of one of those products, the tjet® needle-free device for use with teva’s 5mg tev-tropin® brand hgh. teva is currently marketing the tjet® device to its patients and we expect product sales and royalties from this product into the future. although certain upfront, milestone, development payments and devices sales have been received for the other programs with teva, timelines have been extended and there can be no assurance that there ever will be commercial sales or future milestone payments under these other agreements. we have a license agreement with ferring, under which ferring commercialized our needle-free injection system with their 4mg and 10mg hgh formulations marketed as zomajet® 2 vision and zomajet® vision x, respectively, in europe and asia. we receive a purchase price and a royalty for each device sold to ferring and a royalty on their hgh sales if we meet certain product quality metrics. although these products have been on the market for many years, there can be no assurance that ferring will continue to use our device or that approval of new devices developed by us will occur. in july 2011, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with actavis for actavis to commercialize, in the u.s. and canada, our topical oxybutynin gel 3% product, which was subsequently approved by the fda in december 2011. under terms of the agreement, actavis made payments for certain manufacturing start-up activities and milestone payments based on the achievement of regulatory approval. additionally, milestone payments will be made upon the achievement of certain sales levels. upon launch of the product, we began receiving royalties based on product sales in the u.s. and canada for both our oxybutynin gel 3% product and their oxybutynin gel product gelnique® 10%. in early 2013, actavis assumed all responsibility for manufacture and supply of the product. although milestone payments and royalties have been received from actavis, there is no assurance that future sales based milestones or significant royalties will be received under this agreement. in december 2011, we licensed one of our drug delivery technologies to pfizer inc.’s consumer healthcare business unit to develop an undisclosed product on an exclusive basis for north america. pfizer will assume full cost and responsibility for all clinical development, manufacturing, and commercialization of the product in the licensed territory, which also includes certain non-exclusive territories outside of north america. we received an upfront payment, and will receive development milestones and sales based milestones, as well as royalties on net sales for three years post launch in the u.s. although an upfront payment has been received, there can be no assurance that there ever will be commercial sales or future milestone payments or royalties under this agreement. we have become more commercially oriented by further developing our own products and less dependent on our pharmaceutical partners, and we may not have sufficient resources to fully execute our plan. we must make choices as to the drugs that we develop on our own. we may not make the correct choice of drug or technologies when combined with a drug, which may not be accepted by the marketplace as we expected or at all. fda approval processes for the drugs and drugs with devices may be longer in time and/or more costly and/or require more extended clinical evaluation than anticipated. funds required to bring our own products to market may be more than anticipated or may not be available at all. we have limited experience in bringing such products to market; therefore, we may experience difficulties in execution of development of internal product candidates. if we do not develop and maintain relationships with manufacturers of our device products, then we may be unable to successfully manufacture and sell our device products. our device manufacturing for our needle-free device has involved the assembly of products from machined stainless steel and composite components in limited quantities. our device manufacturing for our medi-jet™ auto injector for otrexup™ has involved high volume production of numerous complex parts as well as assembly of those parts. our planned future device business may necessitate changes and additions to our contract manufacturing and assembly process or the use of a secondary manufacturer due to the anticipated larger scale of manufacturing in our business plan. our devices must be manufactured in compliance with regulatory requirements, in a timely manner and in sufficient quantities while maintaining quality and acceptable manufacturing costs. in the course of these changes and additions to our manufacturing and production methods, we may encounter difficulties, including problems involving scale-up, yields, quality control and assurance, product reliability, manufacturing costs, existing and new equipment and component supplies, any of which could result in significant delays in production.   34 table of contents we operate under a manufacturing agreement with minnesota rubber and plastics (“mrp”), a contract manufacturing company, who manufactures and assembles our needle-free devices and certain related disposable component parts for our partners teva, ferring and jcr. there can be no assurance that mrp will be able to continue to meet these regulatory requirements or our own quality control standards. therefore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully produce and manufacture our products. our pharmaceutical partners retain the right to audit the quality systems of our manufacturing partner, and there can be no assurance that mrp will be successful in these audits. any of these failures would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we will also continue to outsource manufacturing of our future disposable injection products to third parties. such products will be price sensitive and may be required to be manufactured in large quantities, and we have no assurance that this can be done. additionally, use of contract manufacturers exposes us to risks in the manufacturers’ business such as their potential inability to perform from a technical, operational or financial standpoint. we have contracted with nypro, an international manufacturing development company to commercialize our vibex® pressure assisted auto injector device, for our epinephrine auto injector for teva and our proprietary otrexup™ methotrexate system, in compliance with fda qsr regulations. any failure by nypro to successfully manufacture the pressure assisted auto injector device in commercial quantities, be in compliance with regulatory regulations, or pass the audits by our internal quality and regulatory group or pharmaceutical partner would have a negative impact on our future revenue expectations. we have contracted with phillips-medisize corporation (phillips), an international outsource provider of design and manufacturing services, to produce clinical and commercial quantities of our vibex® qs t auto injector device and our pen injector device for an undisclosed teva product. any failure by phillips to successfully manufacture the vibex® qs t auto injector device or the pen injector device in clinical and commercial quantities, be in compliance with regulatory regulations, or pass the audits by our internal quality and regulatory group or pharmaceutical partner would have a negative impact on our future revenue expectations. we rely on third parties to supply components for our products, and any failure to retain relationships with these third parties could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products. certain of our technologies contain a number of customized components manufactured by various third parties. regulatory requirements applicable to manufacturing can make substitution of suppliers costly and time-consuming. in the event that we could not obtain adequate quantities of these customized components from our suppliers, there can be no assurance that we would be able to access alternative sources of such components within a reasonable period of time, on acceptable terms or at all. the unavailability of adequate quantities, the inability to develop alternative sources, a reduction or interruption in supply or a significant increase in the price of components could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and market our products. if transdermal gels do not achieve greater market acceptance, we may not realize significant revenue from these products. because transdermal gels are not a widely understood method of drug delivery, our partners and consumers may have little experience with such products. to date, transdermal gels have gained successful entry into only a limited number of markets such as the testosterone replacement market and the pain market. there can be no assurance that transdermal gels will ever gain market acceptance beyond these markets sufficient to allow us to achieve significant royalties in this product area. elestrin®, our transdermal estradiol gel, was launched by ani’s marketing partner bradley in june 2007. bradley was acquired by nycomed in february 2008. ani reacquired elestrin® from nycomed and in december 2008 relicensed all manufacturing, distribution and marketing responsibilities of elestrin® to azur. in january 2012 azur was acquired by jazz. elestrin® is currently being marketed in the u.s. by meda, who acquired the product from jazz in 2012. the multiple licenses of elestrin® and shifting marketing responsibilities has had a negative impact on the marketing efforts of elestrin® and to date, the market penetration of elestrin® has been low. the increased focus on the product by meda has recently had a positive effect on the growth of the product but there is no assurance that this growth will continue.   35 table of contents gelnique 3%, our transdermal oxybutynin product, competes in a large market dominated by oral products. to date, transdermal products such as gels and patches have not had overwhelming success in gaining market share. gelnique 3% was launched in april 2012 by our partner actavis. actavis is currently marketing gelnique 3% along with gelnique 10% with a large sales force focused on urologists. we receive royalties on net sales of both gelnique 3% and gelnique 10%. gelnique has not experienced the patient acceptance originally anticipated and is a small product in this field. the loss of any existing licensing agreements or the failure to enter into new licensing agreements could substantially affect our revenue. one of our business strategies to reduce development risk is to enter into license agreements with pharmaceutical companies covering the development, manufacture, use and marketing of our drug delivery devices with specific drug therapies. under these arrangements, the partners typically assist us in the development of the product and sponsor the collection of the appropriate data for submission for regulatory approval of the use of the drug delivery device with the licensed drug therapy. our licensees may also be responsible for distribution and marketing of the product or technologies for these therapies either worldwide or in specific territories. we are currently a party to a number of such agreements, all of which are currently in varying stages of development. we may not be able to meet future milestones established in our agreements (such milestones generally being structured around satisfactory completion of certain phases of clinical development, regulatory approvals and commercialization of our product) and thus, would not receive the fees expected from such arrangements, related future royalties or product sales. moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in executing additional collaborative agreements or that existing or future agreements will result in increased sales of our drug delivery technologies or products. in such event, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, and our revenues and gross profits may be insufficient to allow us to achieve and/or sustain profitability. as a result of our collaborative agreements, we are dependent upon the development, data collection and marketing efforts of our licensees. the amount and timing of resources such licensees devote to these efforts are not within our control, and such licensees could make material decisions regarding these efforts that could adversely affect our future financial condition and results of operations. in addition, factors that adversely impact the introduction and level of sales of any drug or drug device covered by such licensing arrangements, including competition within the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, the timing of regulatory or other approvals and intellectual property litigation, may also negatively affect sales of our drug delivery technology. we are relying on partners such as teva, ferring, actavis, meda, pfizer and leo pharma for future milestone, sales and royalty revenue. any or all of these partners may never commercialize a product with our technologies, may be unsuccessful in commercializing a product, or significant delays in anticipated launches of these products may occur. any potential loss of anticipated future revenue could have an adverse effect on our business and the value of your investment. if we cannot develop and market our products as rapidly or cost-effectively as our competitors, then we may never be able to achieve profitable operations. competitors in the methotrexate, overactive bladder, injector device and other markets, some with greater resources and experience than us, may enter these markets, as there is an increasing recognition of a need for branded 505(b)2 products. our success depends, in part, upon maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies in rapidly evolving fields. if we cannot maintain competitive products and technologies, our current and potential pharmaceutical company partners may choose to adopt the technologies of our competitors. companies that compete with our injector based technologies include ypsomed, owen mumford, elcam, shl, bioject medical technologies, inc., haselmeier, bespak-consort medical, west pharmaceuticals and becton dickinson, along with other companies. we also compete generally with other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies engaged in the development of alternative drug delivery technologies or new drug research and testing. the rheumatoid arthritis market, which is the main focus of our efforts for otrexup™, is intensely competitive. we face competition with respect to otrexup™ from major pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. potential competitors also include academic institutions and other public and   36 table of contents private research institutions that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. our competitors may develop products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects, are more convenient or are less costly than otrexup™. in the rheumatoid arthritis market we face competition from several branded and generic products, many from larger companies that have more experience and greater resources than does our company. competition in the rheumatoid arthritis market includes tablets and parenteral forms of methotrexate that are currently marketed in the u.s. by several generic manufacturers, including teva, mylan, roxane, bedford labs, app pharmaceuticals and hospira. in several european countries, canada, and south korea, medac international or its licensees market methotrexate in prefilled syringes (metoject®) and recently methotrexate in an auto injector. other commonly used pharmaceutical treatments for rheumatoid arthritis include analgesics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids), corticosteroids, so-called disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (dmards) and biologic response modifiers. in addition to methotrexate, the dmards include azathioprine (imuran®), cyclosporine (neoral®), hydroxychloroquine (plaquenil®), auranofin (ridura®), leflunomide (arava®) and sulfasalazine (azulfidine®). the biologic response modifiers include blockbuster products etanercept (enbrel®), adalimumab (humira®), golimumab (simponi®), tocilizumab (actemra®), certolizumab (cimzia®), infliximab (remicaid®), abatacept (orencia®), and rituximab (rituxan®). they are often prescribed in combination with dmards such as methotrexate. the biologics price competition and innovation act permits the fda to approve biosimilar versions of biological products like humira®, enbrel®, simponi®, cimzia®, orencia®, actemra®, rituxan® and remicaid® through an abbreviated approval pathway. this regulatory pathway could result in earlier entry of lower-cost biosimilars which could lower our value proposition of otrexup™ relative to that of costlier branded biologics. the approval of lower-cost biosimilar products could decrease the revenue we receive for otrexup™. many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing and distributing approved products than we do. smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. these competitors also compete with us in acquiring products, product candidates and technologies complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. although not currently approved for subcutaneous administration, we may face competition from generic versions of injectable methotrexate offered at substantially lower cost. manufacturers may seek approval to market low cost generic products without the cost and benefit of an auto injector which could appeal to third party payers and reduce the market penetration of otrexup™. additionally, in january 2014, medac pharma announced that it had received fda acceptance of a new drug application (nda) for a methotrexate containing auto-pen. medac pharma stated that it expected to self-commercialize the methotrexate product upon fda approval of the product. there is no assurance that medac pharma will obtain fda approval of the nda or be able to launch the product in the u.s. market, but if approved and launched medac pharma’s product would compete directly with otrexup™, which could reduce the market penetration of otrexup™. although we have applied for, and/or have received, several patents and trademarks, we may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents for our products and device technologies and to preserve our trade secrets and other proprietary information. if we cannot do so, our competitors may exploit our innovations and deprive us of the ability to realize revenues and profits from our developments. we currently hold numerous patents and have numerous patent applications pending in the u.s. and other countries. our current patents may not be valid or enforceable and may not protect us against competitors that challenge our patents, obtain their own patents that may have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, or are able to otherwise circumvent our patents. additionally, our products and technologies are complex and one patent may not be sufficient to protect our products where a series of patents may be needed. further, we may not   37 table of contents have the necessary financial resources to enforce or defend our patents or patent applications. in addition, any patent applications we may have made or may make relating to inventions for our actual or potential products and technologies may not result in patents being issued or may result in patents that provide insufficient or incomplete coverage for our inventions. based on a medac pharma press release, we became aware that medac pharma submitted an nda to the fda for an auto-pen containing methotrexate. on february 28, 2014, antares filed a complaint against medac pharma and medac gmbh (“medac gmbh”), the parent company of medac pharma, in the united states district court for the district of delaware, alleging infringement of two of the company’s patents regarding an auto-injector and an auto-injector containing methotrexate. the complaint asserts that medac pharma’s nda submission infringes, that medac pharma’s proposed product will infringe the company’s patents, and that medac pharma should be enjoined from marketing its product. there is no assurance of success with any patent litigation, and it could be costly and time consuming and depending on the ultimate outcome of the litigation may have an adverse effect on results of operations and otrexup™ market penetration. to protect our trade secrets and proprietary technologies and processes, we rely, in part, on confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and advisors. these agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure, or if others lawfully and independently develop the same or similar information. others may bring infringement claims against us, which could be time-consuming and expensive to defend. third parties may claim that the manufacture, use or sale of our drug delivery technologies infringe their patent rights. on march 7, 2014, medac pharma and medac gmbh filed a patent infringement suit against antares, leo pharma and its parent company leo pharma a/s in the united state district court for the district of new jersey. see “legal proceedings.” as with any litigation where claims may be asserted, we may have to seek licenses, defend infringement actions or challenge the validity of those patents in the patent office or the courts. if these are not resolved favorably, we may not be able to continue to develop and commercialize our product candidates. even if we were able to obtain rights to a third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors potential access to the same intellectual property. if we are found liable for infringement or are not able to have these patents declared invalid or unenforceable, we may be liable for significant monetary damages, encounter significant delays in bringing products to market or be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of products or methods of drug delivery covered by patents of others. any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. we may not have identified, or be able to identify in the future, united states or foreign patents that pose a risk of potential infringement claims. ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our product candidates as a result of patent infringement claims, which could potentially harm our business. in november 2008, meridian medical technologies (“meridian”) received u.s. patent 7,449,012 (“the ‘012 patent”) relating to a specific type of auto injector for use with epinephrine. on august 28, 2009, king and meridian had filed suit against teva in the u.s. district court for the district of delaware asserting its ‘012 patent. on october 21, 2009, teva filed its answer asserting non-infringement and invalidity of the ‘012 patent. on november 3, 2011, meridian and king requested to dismiss their claims against teva involving the ‘012 patent, and the court entered the dismissal on november 7, 2011, removing the ‘012 patent from the litigation. in september 2010, king received u.s. patent no. 7,794,432 (“the ‘432 patent”) relating to certain features of an auto injector for use with epinephrine. king and meridian filed an amended complaint, in the same litigation as the ‘012 patent, adding the ‘432 patent. trial was held in february and march, 2012, and on april 26, 2012 the company announced that meridian medical technologies, a pfizer subsidiary, entered into a settlement agreement with teva that would resolve pending patent litigation related to its abbreviated new drug application (anda) for a generic epinephrine auto injector. according to the terms of the settlement, teva may launch a generic epinephrine auto-injector covered by its anda on june 22, 2015 or earlier under certain circumstances, subject to receipt of approval from the u.s. food and drug administration. under a separate agreement, teva has agreed to provide the company with device orders of an undisclosed amount in the years 2013 and 2014, to make a milestone payment to the company upon fda approval of epinephrine auto-injector, and to assume all litigation costs related to the patent litigation between teva and meridian medical.   38 table of contents although the litigation has been settled, there can be no assurance that the epinephrine auto injector product will be approved by the fda or that we will receive a milestone payment or royalties in the future under our agreement with teva. additionally, we are developing other products for teva under the anda pathway and there can be no assurance that those products do not follow the same type of litigation process of the epinephrine case which could delay or prohibit the launch of those potential products. if we do not have adequate insurance for product liability or clinical trial claims, then we may be subject to significant expenses relating to these claims. our business entails the risk of product liability and clinical trial claims. although we have not experienced any material claims to date, any such claims could have a material adverse impact on our business. insurance coverage is expensive and may be difficult to obtain, and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. we maintain product and clinical trial liability insurance with coverage of $10 million per occurrence and an annual aggregate maximum of $10 million and evaluate our insurance requirements on an ongoing basis. if we are subject to a product liability claim, our product liability insurance may not reimburse us, or may not be sufficient to reimburse us, for any expenses or losses that may have been suffered. a successful product liability claim against us, if not covered by, or if in excess of our product liability insurance, may require us to make significant compensation payments, which would be reflected as expenses on our statement of operations. adverse claim experience for our products or licensed technologies or medical device, pharmaceutical or insurance industry trends may make it difficult for us to obtain product liability insurance or we may be forced to pay very high premiums, and there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. additionally, if the coverage limits of the product liability insurance are not adequate, a claim brought against us, whether covered by insurance or not, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if we make any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and might never successfully integrate the acquired product or business into ours. we might attempt to acquire products or businesses that we believe are a strategic complement to our business model. we might encounter operating difficulties and expenditures relating to integrating an acquired product or business. these acquisitions might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. in addition, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. we might also make dilutive issuances of equity securities, incur debt or experience a decrease in cash available for our operations, or incur contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses relating to goodwill and other intangible assets, in connection with future acquisitions. risks related to regulatory matters we or our licensees may incur significant time and costs seeking approval for our products, which could delay the realization of revenue and, ultimately, decrease our revenues from such products. the design, development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical compounds and medical devices are subject to regulation by governmental authorities, including the fda and comparable regulatory authorities in other countries. the approval process is generally lengthy, expensive and subject to unanticipated delays. currently we, along with our partners, are actively pursuing marketing approval for a number of products from regulatory authorities in other countries and anticipate seeking regulatory approval from the fda for products developed internally and pursuant to our license agreements. in the future we, or our partners, may need to seek approval for newly developed products. our revenue and profit will depend, in part, on the successful introduction and marketing of some or all of such products by our partners or us.   39 table of contents applicants for fda approval often must submit extensive clinical data and supporting information to the fda. varying interpretations of the data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a drug product. changes in fda approval policy during the development period, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted nda also may cause delays or rejection of an approval. even if the fda approves a product, the approval may limit the uses or “indications” for which a product may be marketed, or may require further studies. the fda also can withdraw product clearances and approvals for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or if unforeseen problems follow initial marketing. we are developing our own combination products such as vibex® qs t (testosterone) as well as injection devices for use with our partner’s drugs. the regulatory path for approval of such combination products may be subject to review by several centers within the fda and although precedent and guidance exists for the requirements for such combination products, there is no assurance that the fda will not change what it requires or how it reviews such submissions. human clinical testing may be required by the fda in order to commercialize these products and devices and there can be no assurance that such trials will be successful. such changes in review processes or the requirement for clinical studies could delay anticipated launch dates or be at a cost which makes launching the product or device cost prohibitive for ourselves or our partners. such delay or failure to launch these products or devices could adversely affect our revenues and future profitability. in december 2008, one of our device partners, teva, filed an anda for their epinephrine product. the anda submission was accepted by the fda. teva is in the process of completing the work required for the submission. the submission of the anda does not ensure that the fda will approve the filing and without fda approval we cannot market or sell our injector for use with this drug product in the u.s. in 2007, our partner teva filed a second injector device with sumatriptan as an anda and the fda rejected such filing. the fda’s rejection was based primarily on the opinion that the device was sufficiently different than the innovator’s device not to warrant an anda. we redesigned the device to address the fda’s concern of device similarity and submitted the new device to the fda. the fda reactivated the anda file in 2010, and since that time we have successfully completed user studies and are scaling up commercial tooling and molds for the newly designed device. in the fourth quarter of 2013 we received a complete response letter from the fda with additional items to be addressed in our filing. we plan on submitting this new data in the first half of 2014 and then the fda is expected to complete its review of the anda, the timing of which is completely dependent on the fda. the submission of the requested data does not ensure that the fda will approve the filing and without fda approval we cannot market or sell our injector for use with sumatriptan in the u.s. in the second half of 2013, our partner teva filed an anda for an undisclosed multidose pen product. the anda submission has not been accepted to date by the fda. the submission of the anda does not ensure that the fda will approve the filing and without fda approval we cannot market or sell our injector for use with this undisclosed drug product in the u.s. in other jurisdictions, we, and the pharmaceutical companies with whom we are developing technologies (both drugs and devices), must obtain required regulatory approvals from regulatory agencies and comply with extensive regulations regarding safety and quality. if approvals to market the products are delayed, if we fail to receive these approvals, or if we lose previously received approvals, our revenues may not materialize or may decline. we may not be able to obtain all necessary regulatory approvals. additionally, clinical data that we generate or obtain from partners from fda regulatory filings may not be sufficient for regulatory filings in other jurisdictions and we may be required to incur significant costs in obtaining those regulatory approvals. in 2012, our partner daewoong filed with the regulatory agency in south korea for approval of our oxybutynin gel 3% product. we cannot offer any assurances or predict with any certainty as to when or if our oxybutynin gel 3% product will be approved for marketing in south korea. if approval is delayed or is not received, we may not realize any further revenues under this agreement.   40 table of contents the 505(b)(2) and 505(j) (anda) regulatory pathway for many of our potential products is uncertain and could result in unexpected costs and delays of approvals. drug/device combination products indicated for the treatment of systemic or local treatments respectively are regulated by the fda in the u.s. and other similar regulatory agencies in other countries as drug products. drug/device combination products may not be marketed in the u.s. until they have been demonstrated to be safe and effective. the regulatory approval routes for drug/device combination products include the filing of an nda for new drugs, new indications of approved drugs or new dosage forms of approved drugs. alternatively, these dosage forms can obtain marketing approval as a filing under section 505(b)(2) where there is an acceptable reference product or as a generic product by the filing of an anda, providing the new generic product is bioequivalent to and has the same labeling as a comparable approved product. the combination of the drug, its dosage form and label claims and fda requirement will ultimately determine which regulatory approval route will be required. many of our drug/device combination product candidates may be developed via the 505(b)(2) route. the 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway is continually evolving and advice provided in the present is based on current standards, which may or may not be applicable when we potentially submit an nda. additionally, it is customary to reference the most similar predicate products when submitting a 505(b)(2) application in order to potentially reduce testing requirements. it is therefore probable that:     •   should a more appropriate reference product(s) be approved by the fda at any time before or during the review of our nda, we would be required to submit a new application referencing the more appropriate product;     •   the fda cannot disclose whether such predicate product(s) is under development or has been submitted at any time during another company’s review cycle. drug delivery systems such as injectors are reviewed by the fda and may be legally marketed as a medical device or may be evaluated as part of the drug approval process. combination drug/device products raise unique scientific, technical and regulatory issues. the fda has established the ocp to address the challenges associated with the review and regulation of combination products. the ocp assists in determining strategies for the approval of drug/delivery combinations and assuring agreement within the fda on review responsibilities. we may seek approval for a product including an injector and a generic pharmaceutical by filing an anda claiming bioequivalence and the same labeling as a comparable referenced product or as a filing under section 505(b)(2) if there is an acceptable reference product. in reviewing the anda filing, the agency may decide that the unique nature of combination products allows them to dispute the claims of bioequivalence and/or same labeling resulting in our re-filing the application under section 505(b)(2). if such combination products require filing under section 505(b)(2) we may incur delays in product approval and may incur additional costs associated with testing including clinical trials. the result of an approval for a combination product under section 505(b)(2) may result in additional selling expenses and a decrease in market acceptance due to the lack of substitutability by pharmacies or formularies. if the use of our injection devices require additions to or modifications of the drug labeling regulated by the fda, the review of this labeling may be undertaken by the fda’s office of surveillance and epidemiology (ose). additionally, the instructions for use (ifu) for a device in a drug/device combination product is also reviewed for accuracy, ease of use and educational requirements. these reviews could increase the time needed for review completion of a successful application and may require additional studies, such as usage studies, to establish the validity of the instructions. such reviews and requirement may extend the time necessary for the approval of drug-device combinations. such was the case for the approval of our needle-free device for use with hgh. the approval process took much more time than contemplated. accordingly, these regulations and the fda’s interpretation of them might impair our ability to obtain product approval in a reasonable time, or at all, or effectively market our products. our business could be harmed if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements and, as a result, are subject to sanctions. if we, or pharmaceutical companies with whom we are developing technologies, fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the pharmaceutical companies, and we, may be subject to sanctions, including the following:   41 table of contents   •   warning letters;     •   fines;     •   product seizures, quarantines or recalls;     •   injunctions;     •   refusals to permit products to be imported into or exported out of the applicable regulatory jurisdiction;     •   total or partial suspension of production;     •   withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; or     •   criminal prosecutions. any relationships with healthcare professionals, principal investigators, consultants, customers (actual and potential) and third-party payors in connection with our current and future business activities are and will continue to be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws, false claims laws, marketing expenditure tracking and disclosure (or “sunshine”) laws, government price reporting, and health information privacy and security laws. if we are unable to comply, or have not fully complied, with such laws, we could face penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings. our business operations and activities may be directly, or indirectly, subject to various federal, state and local fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal anti-kickback statute and the federal false claims act. these laws may impact, among other things, our current activities with principal investigators and research subjects, as well as proposed and future sales, marketing and education programs. in addition, we may be subject to patient privacy regulation by the federal government, state governments and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. the laws that may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to:     •   the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying any remuneration (including any kickback, bribe or rebate), directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce, or in return for, the referral of an individual for the furnishing or arranging for the furnishing of any item or service, or the purchase, lease, order, arrangement for, or recommendation of the purchase, lease, or order of any good, facility, item or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program, such as the medicare and medicaid programs;     •   the civil federal false claims act, which imposes civil penalties, including through civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent; knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement to get a false or fraudulent claim paid or approved by the government; conspiring to defraud the government by getting a false or fraudulent claim paid or approved by the government; or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used a false record or statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government;     •   the criminal federal false claims act, which imposes criminal fines or imprisonment against individuals or entities who make or present of a claim to the government knowing such claim to be false, fictitious or fraudulent;     •   the civil monetary penalties statute, which imposes penalties against any person or entity who, among other things, is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent;     •   the veterans health care act of 1992 that requires manufacturers of “covered drugs” to offer them for sale to certain federal agencies, including but not limited to, the department of veterans affairs, on the federal supply schedule, which requires compliance with applicable federal procurement laws and regulations and subjects manufacturers to contractual remedies as well as administrative, civil and criminal sanctions;     •   the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, which created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations or promises, any of the money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any healthcare benefit program, regardless of the payor (e.g., public or private), knowingly and willfully embezzling or stealing from a health care benefit program, willfully obstructing a criminal investigation of a health care offense and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by any trick or device a material fact or making any materially false statements in connection with the delivery of, or payment for, healthcare benefits, items or services relating to healthcare matters;   42 table of contents   •   hipaa, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act of 2009, or hitech, and their respective implementing regulations, which impose requirements on certain covered healthcare providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses as well as their respective business associates that perform services for them that involve individually identifiable health information, relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information without appropriate authorization, including mandatory contractual terms as well as directly applicable privacy and security standards and requirements;     •   the federal physician payment sunshine act, created under the ppaca, and its implementing regulations requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologicals and medical supplies for which payment is available under medicare, medicaid or the children’s health insurance program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the united states department of health and human services, or hhs, information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members, with data collection required beginning august 1, 2013 and reporting to cms required by march 31, 2014 and by the 90th day of each subsequent calendar year;     •   federal consumer protection and unfair competition laws, which broadly regulate marketplace activities and activities that potentially harm consumers;     •   federal government price reporting laws, changed by the ppaca to, among other things, increase the minimum medicaid rebates owed by most manufacturers under the medicaid drug rebate program and offer such rebates to additional populations, that require us to calculate and report complex pricing metrics to government programs, where such reported prices may be used in the calculation of reimbursement and/or discounts on our marketed drugs. participation in these programs and compliance with the applicable requirements may subject us to potentially significant discounts on our products, increased infrastructure costs and potentially limit our ability to offer certain marketplace discounts and failure to report accurate pricing information exposes us to federal false claims act liability;     •   the foreign corrupt practices act, a united states law which regulates certain financial relationships with foreign government officials (which could include, for example, certain medical professionals); and     •   state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback, false claims, consumer protection and unfair competition laws which may apply to our business practices, including but not limited to, research, distribution, sales and marketing arrangements as well as submitting claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by any third-party payors, including commercial insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government that otherwise restricts payments that may be made to healthcare providers; state laws that require drug manufacturers to file reports with states regarding marketing information, such as the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensations and other remuneration and items of value provided to healthcare professionals and entities (compliance with such requirements may require investment in infrastructure to ensure that tracking is performed properly, and some of these laws result in the public disclosure of various types of payments and relationships, which could potentially have a negative effect on our business and/or increase enforcement scrutiny of our activities); and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways, with differing effects. moreover, the recently enacted drug supply chain security act imposes new obligations on manufacturers of pharmaceutical products, among others, related to product tracking and tracing. among the requirements of this new legislation, manufacturers will be required to provide certain information regarding the drug products to individuals and entities to which product ownership is transferred, label drug product with a product identifier, and keep certain records regarding the drug product. the transfer of information to subsequent product owners by manufacturers will eventually be required to be done electronically. manufacturers will also be required to verify that purchasers of the manufacturers’ products are appropriately licensed. further, under this new legislation, manufactures will have drug product investigation, quarantine, disposition, and notification responsibilities related to counterfeit, diverted, stolen, and intentionally adulterated products, as well as products that are the subject of fraudulent transactions or which are otherwise unfit for distribution such that they would be reasonably likely to result in serious health consequences or death.   43 table of contents our revenues may be limited if the marketing claims asserted about our products are not approved. once a drug product is approved by the fda, the office of prescription drug promotion (opdp), the fda’s marketing surveillance department within the center for drug evaluation and research (cder), must approve marketing claims asserted by our pharmaceutical company partners. if we or a pharmaceutical company partner fails to obtain from opdp acceptable marketing claims for a product incorporating our drug technologies, our revenues from that product may be limited. marketing claims are the basis for a product’s labeling, advertising and promotion. the claims the pharmaceutical company partners are asserting about our drug delivery technologies, or the drug product itself, may not be approved by opdp. risks related to our common stock future conversions or exercises by holders of options could dilute our common stock. as of march 4, 2014, we had options outstanding that are exercisable, at exercise prices ranging from $0.47 to $4.57 per share, for an aggregate of approximately 7,200,000 shares of our common stock. purchasers of our common stock could therefore experience dilution of their investment upon exercise of the above options. sales of our common stock by our officers and directors may lower the market price of our common stock. as of march 4, 2014, our officers and directors beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 16,700,000 shares (or approximately 12.5%) of our outstanding common stock, including stock options exercisable within 60 days. if our officers and directors, or other stockholders, sell a substantial amount of our common stock, it could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. we intend to retain any earnings in the foreseeable future for our continued growth and, thus, do not expect to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. anti-takeover effects of certain certificate of incorporation and bylaw provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent persons from acquiring or attempting to acquire us. our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors, without action of our stockholders, to designate and issue preferred stock in one or more series, with such rights, preferences and privileges as the board of directors shall determine. in addition, our bylaws grant our board of directors the authority to adopt, amend or repeal all or any of our bylaws, subject to the power of the stockholders to change or repeal the bylaws. in addition, our bylaws limit who may call meetings of our stockholders.   item 1b. unresolved