item 1a.     risk factors. risks related to the company we may continue to require external financing to fund our operations, which may not be available. we expect to require external financing to fund our long-term operations. as of december 31, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $15.1 million. subsequently, we completed the sale of our new jersey facility resulting in net proceeds of approximately $3.6 million. as a result, we believe we have sufficient cash reserves to fund our on-going operations for the next twelve months, however, we expect to continue to have net cash outflows from operations in 2013 as we execute our market approval and commercialization plan for vitaros® , develop and implement a regulatory and clinical trial program for femprox® for fsad and further develop our pipeline product. while we have historically generated modest revenues from our operations, we do not believe that revenues will be sufficient for the foreseeable future to fund our long-term ongoing operations, including the development of our product candidates and general operating expenses, including legal, audit and public company listing fees. given our current lack of profitability, we may not be able to fully execute all the elements of our strategic plan, including seeking market approval and commercializing vitaros® and developing and implementing a regulatory and clinical trial program for femprox®. if we are unable to accomplish these objectives, our business prospects would be diminished and we will likely be unable to achieve profitability. in the first part of 2013, we expect that the french contract services operation will have significantly lower revenues than in prior periods as it experienced a loss of certain key contract agreements for detailing services. recent changes in french pharmaceutical regulations and recently enacted laws intended to promote generic versions of drugs to reduce costs associated with prescription drugs and have had the effect of decreasing sales of drugs that scomedica has historically promoted for its large pharmaceutical company customers. these events have led the company to cease financing its french operations.   17 table of contents we will continue to incur operating losses. we have not marketed or generated significant product sales revenues or royalty revenues in the u.s. or foreign countries from our products or product candidates, we have never been profitable and we have incurred an accumulated deficit of approximately $251.1 million from our inception through december 31, 2012. our ability to generate revenues and to achieve profitability and positive cash flow will depend on the successful licensing and commercialization of our nexact ® product candidates currently approved or in human clinical trials and those earlier stage products and technology under development. our ability to become profitable will depend, among other things, on our (1) successful commercialization of vitaros® in major markets outside the united states in order to generate license fees, milestones and royalty revenues, and (2) successful development, regulatory approval and licensing, manufacturing, distributing and marketing of our proposed nexact® product candidates including femprox®. if we are unable to accomplish these objectives, we may be unable to achieve profitability and would need to raise additional capital to sustain our operations. our financial prospects depend in part on the approval of vitaros® in europe and other countries. if vitaros® is not approved, or if it is approved with a less favorable marketing label, our financial results would be negatively impacted. we have licensed rights to vitaros® in a number of countries, although vitaros® is only approved for commercialization in canada. if vitaros® is not approved in europe or other countries where we have licensed out our commercial rights, or if vitaros® is approved with a commercial label that is less favorable than expected (e.g., a shorter than expected shelf life), then we will be unable to recognize the revenue under certain of our license agreements and may be required to expend additional sums to address any concerns that may be raised by the reviewing agency. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining these regulatory approvals on the time frames that we anticipate, or at all. similarly, our financial results would be negatively affected if we are unable to successfully develop and obtain approval for our second-generation vitaros® product. the failure to successfully develop a room-temperature formulation of vitaros® would likely significantly impact the commercial potential of the product and our ability to attract additional licensing partners. in markets where vitaros® may be approved, we will depend on marketing partners in those countries to successfully commercialize vitaros®. even though we have obtained regulatory approval of vitaros® in canada and filed to obtain approval for vitaros® in numerous foreign countries, we do not expect to have any vitaros® sales and marketing sales infrastructure beginning in 2013. accordingly, our operating results and long-term success will depend, among other things, on our ability to establish successful arrangements with domestic and additional international distributors and marketing partners. consummation of vitaros® and nexact® partnering arrangements is subject to the negotiation of complex contractual relationships and we may not be able to negotiate such agreements on a timely basis, if at all, or on terms acceptable to us. where we have been successful in entering into these third party arrangements, our revenues from vitaros® sales will be lower than if we commercialized directly, as we will be required to share the revenues with our licensing, commercialization and development partners. if our launches are unsuccessful or we are unable to launch the drug, in certain countries, we may realize little or no revenue from sales in such markets where it is or may be approved. if we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully operate our business. our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with   18 table of contents healthcare providers, clinicians and scientists. we are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff. in november 2012, our then president and chief executive officer, resigned from the company and we have yet to find a permanent replacement. although we have employment agreements with two of our executives, these agreements are generally terminable at will at any time, and, therefore, we may not be able to retain their services as expected. the loss of services of one or more members of our senior management and scientific staff could delay or prevent us from successfully operating our business. competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals field is intense, particularly in the san diego, california area, where our offices are located. we may need to hire additional personnel as we expand our commercial activities. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business with our clients and to get business from new clients, particularly in the drug development sector, also depends on our ability to subcontract and retain scientific staff with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug development technologies. pre-clinical and clinical trials are inherently unpredictable. if we or our partners do not successfully conduct the clinical trials or gain regulatory approval, we or our partners may be unable to market our product candidates. through pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, our product candidates such as femprox® must be demonstrated to be safe and effective for their indicated uses. results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of, or allow for, prediction of results in later-stage testing. many of the pre-clinical studies that we have conducted are in animals with “models” of human disease states. although these tests are widely used as screening mechanisms for drug candidates before being advanced to human clinical studies, results in animal studies are less reliable predictors of safety and efficacy than results of human clinical studies. future clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates or may not result in regulatory approval to market our product candidates. commercial sales in any territory cannot begin until approval is received from the applicable foreign regulatory authorities, including the fda in the u.s. to date, vitaros® has only been approved for commercialization in canada and the failure of the fda or a foreign regulatory agency, such as europe or switzerland, among others, to approve vitaros® or any of our other product candidates such as femprox®, mycova™ or rayva™ for commercial sales could have a material adverse effect on our prospects. we have sold all rights to vitaros® for ed to warner chilcott for sales into the u.s. warner chilcott has not been successful in obtaining approval for vitaros® in the u.s. and any inability to have the drug approved by the fda for ed could have a negative effect on our prospects and the company’s stock price. patents and intellectual property rights are important to us but could be challenged. proprietary protection for our pharmaceutical products and products under development is of material importance to our business in the u.s. and most other countries. we have sought and will continue to seek proprietary protection for our product candidates to an attempt to prevent others from commercializing equivalent products in substantially less time and at substantially lower expense. our success may depend on our ability to (1) obtain effective patent protection within the u.s. and internationally for our proprietary technologies and products, (2) defend patents we own, (3) preserve our trade secrets and (4) operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. in addition, we have agreed to indemnify our partners for certain liabilities with respect to the defense, protection and/or validity of our patents and would also be required to incur costs or forego revenue if it is necessary for our partners to acquire third party patent licenses in order for them to exercise the licenses acquired from us. while we have obtained patents and have many patent applications pending, the extent of effective patent protection in the u.s. and other countries is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. no consistent policy addresses the breadth of claims allowed in, or the degree of protection afforded   19 table of contents under, patents of medical and pharmaceutical companies. patents we currently own or may obtain might not be sufficiently broad enough to protect us against competitors with similar technology. any of our patents could be invalidated or circumvented. while we believe that our patents would prevail in any potential litigation, the holders of competing patents could determine to commence a lawsuit against us and even prevail in any such lawsuit. we have also sold certain patents in transactions where we have licensed out rights to our drug candidates. in certain of these transactions, we have agreed to indemnify the purchaser from third party patent claims, which could expose us to potentially significant damages for patents that we no longer own. any litigation could result in substantial cost to us and would divert management’s attention, which may harm our business. in addition, our efforts to protect or defend our proprietary rights may not be successful or, even if successful, may result in substantial cost to us. we and our licensees depend upon third party manufacturers for chemical manufacturing supplies and for the manufacture of our products. we and our licensees are dependent on third party chemical manufacturers for the active drugs in our nexact®-based products under development for the supply of our nexact® enhancers that are essential in the formulation and production of our topical products. these products must be supplied on a timely basis and at satisfactory quality levels. if our validated third party chemical manufacturers fail to produce quality products on time and in sufficient quantities, our results would suffer, as we or our licensees would encounter costs and delays in revalidating new third party suppliers. we do not manufacture any of our nexact® products, or any of our other products. as such, we are dependent on third party manufacturers for the supply of these products. these third party manufacturers are often subject to good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, fda and other regulatory regulations and review, and are also subject to other timelines that could cause such manufacturers to fail to produce products on time and in sufficient quantities. we face a high degree of competition. we are engaged in a highly competitive industry. we and our licensees compete against many companies and research institutions that research, develop and market products in areas similar to those in which we operate. for example, viagra®(pfizer), cialis®(lilly), levitra®(glaxo smith kline) are currently approved for treatment of ed and are marketed by companies that are significantly larger than we are. our competitors may have specific expertise and development technologies that are better than ours and many of these companies, which include large pharmaceutical companies, either alone or together with their research partners, have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development capabilities and substantially greater experience than we do. accordingly, our competitors may successfully develop competing products. we are also competing with other companies and their products with respect to manufacturing efficiencies and marketing capabilities, areas where we have limited or no direct experience. a number of other companies have attempted to gain approval in the u.s. and foreign countries for products similar to femprox® for indications similar to female sexual arousal disorder and have not been successful. there have been numerous other companies that have tried to gain regulatory approval for a product in the u.s. or in any other country to treat female sexual arousal disorder (“fsad”). to date, to the company’s knowledge, no such products have been approved by the fda or any other regulatory agency and no products are currently on the market for this disorder. a number of companies such as biosante for its drug libigel®, proctor & gamble for its drug intrinsa® and boehringer ingelheim for its drug girosa® have invested substantial resources in pre-clinical and clinical development on such products and have failed to have them approved by the fda or any other regulatory agency. there is no guarantee that the company’s product candidate, femprox®, will be approved by the fda or any other regulatory agency or that we will realize any revenues from sales of or for the partnering agreements for femprox®.   20 table of contents our pharmaceutical expenditures may not result in commercially successful products. we cannot be sure our business expenditures will result in the successful acquisition, development or launch of products that will prove to be commercially successful or will improve the long-term profitability of our business. if such business expenditures do not result in successful acquisition, development or launch of commercially successful brand products, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. our recent acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the risks that we may be unable to integrate the acquired businesses successfully and that we may assume liabilities that could adversely affect us. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including operational risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses. these risks include, but are not limited to:     •   difficulties in achieving identified financial revenue synergies, growth opportunities, operating synergies and cost savings;     •   difficulties in assimilating the personnel, operations and products of an acquired company, and the potential loss of key employees;     •   difficulties in consolidating information technology platforms, business applications and corporate infrastructure;     •   difficulties in integrating our corporate culture with local customs and cultures;     •   possible overlap between our products or customers and those of an acquired entity that may create conflicts in relationships or other commitments detrimental to the integrated businesses;     •   our inability to achieve expected revenues and gross margins for any products we may acquire;     •   the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns;     •   risks and challenges of entering or operating in markets in which we have limited or no prior experience, including the unanticipated effects of export controls, exchange rate fluctuations, foreign legal and regulatory requirements, and foreign political and economic conditions; and     •   difficulties in reorganizing, winding-down or liquidating operations if not successful in addition, foreign acquisitions involve numerous risks, including those related to changes in local laws and the absence of policies and procedures sufficient to assure compliance by a foreign entity with u.s. regulatory and legal requirements. for example, we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $8.3 million in fiscal 2012 relating to our scomedica subsidiary in france. this charge was incurred as a result of our decision to cease funding the subsidiary after changes in french law significantly diminished the commercial prospects of the subsidiary. similar changes in local laws or changes in business conditions could negatively affect the value of recent or future acquisitions. we incur significant transaction costs associated with our acquisitions, including substantial fees for investment bankers, attorneys, and accountants. any acquisition could result in our assumption of unknown and/or unexpected, and perhaps material, liabilities. we also cannot assure you that we will achieve any cost savings or synergies relating to recent or future acquisitions. additionally, in any acquisition agreement, the negotiated representations, warranties and agreements of the selling parties may not entirely protect us, and liabilities resulting from any breaches could exceed negotiated indemnity limitations. these factors could impair our growth and ability to compete; divert resources from other potentially more profitable areas; or otherwise cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. the financial statements of the companies we have acquired or may acquire in the future are prepared by management of such companies and are not independently verified by our management. in addition, any pro forma financial statements prepared by us to give effect to such acquisitions may not accurately reflect the results   21 table of contents of operations of such companies that would have been achieved had the acquisition of such entities been completed at the beginning of the applicable periods. finally, we cannot assure you that we will continue to acquire businesses at valuations consistent with our prior acquisitions or that we will complete acquisitions at all. we are undertaking cost-reduction initiatives, seeking a buyer for apricus pharmaceuticals usa, inc. (“apricus pharmaceuticals”), and ceasing to fund finesco sas, scomedica and nexmed pharma (“finesco” or our “french subsidiaries”) which may not result in the cost savings or more efficient operations we anticipate. as previously announced, we made the strategic decision in december 2012 to focus on our core product candidates associated with sexual health and the underlying nexact® technology. as a result, we chose to divest our united states based oncology supportive care business and have implemented cost cutting measures and have incurred significant asset impairment charges related to that business. additionally, we announced in march 2013 that we would cease funding our french subsidiaries, which could result in the dissolution of these entities where we will receive little or no return on our investment. we may undertake further restructuring initiatives in the future as we realign our business to focus on assets with potential for the greatest return, such as vitaros® for ed and femprox® for fsad. these efforts may not result in the cost savings that we anticipate and may preclude us from making complementary acquisitions and/or other potentially significant expenditures that could improve our long-term prospects. in particular, the company is seeking a buyer for the products associated with apricus pharmaceuticals, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company focused on commercializing oncology supportive care products or its assets. the pursuit of a sale of apricus pharmaceuticals or its assets may disrupt operations and distract management, which could result in the loss of actual or potential customers, employees or business partners. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to identify suitable third parties for such sale. even if we identify suitable third parties, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or consummate a transaction. furthermore, the pursuit of any such transaction may require the expenditure of substantial legal and other fees, which may by incurred whether or not a transaction is consummated. as a result, pursuit and consummation of a sale of apricus pharmaceuticals or its assets may not lead to increased stockholder value. these restructuring plans may subject the company to litigation risks and expenses. if the company is unable to realize the benefits of these restructuring activities or appropriately structure our business to meet market conditions, the restructuring activities could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition. we may be subject to potential product liability and other claims, creating risks and expense. we are also exposed to potential product liability risks inherent in the development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human therapeutic products. product liability insurance for the pharmaceutical industry is extremely expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. we have liability insurance to cover claims related to our products and product candidates that may have arisen from clinical trials that had taken place in prior years, with coverage on average of $10.0 million for any one claim and coverage of $10.0 million in total. we currently maintain product liability insurance for vitaros®, our product that is approved in canada for ed. we also have plans to acquire liability insurance in any countries where we receive approval for vitaros® from the appropriate regulatory authorities therein. we may need to acquire such insurance coverage prior to the commercial introduction of our product candidates in other countries. if we obtain such coverage, we have no guarantee that the coverage limits of such insurance policies will be adequate. a successful claim against us if we are uninsured, or which is in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, could have a material adverse effect upon us and on our financial condition.   22 table of contents our realization of future earn-out income over the next ten years from the sale of our bio-quant subsidiary to biotox sciences (“biotox”) may be adversely effected by the ability of biotox to realize revenue and cash flows from the operation of the joint companies as well as other internal and external factors that could affect the success of this contract research organization (“cro”). as part of our sale of our wholly-owned subsidiary, bio-quant, inc., to biotox, we were paid approximately $0.5 million as an up-front payment, and we are to be paid the higher of $0.5 million per year or a double digit royalty payment per year over the next nine year period for a total of minimum future payments of $4.5 million. $0.3 million in earn-out payments were received in 2012. the annual payments are secured by a first priority secured lien on the assets of bio-quant as well as the assets of biotox for a certain period of time after the closing date of the transaction. we may not realize the maximum potential payment, or even the minimum guaranteed payment, based on either internal or external factors relating to the operation of bio-quant by biotox and various other domestic and international factors that may affect the cro business in general. in addition, the success of bio-quant may be affected by changes that are occurring in the cro business in general in the united states, namely the competition from lower cost cros in china, india and other countries. we have established a full reserve against the amount receivable for biotox. from time to time, we will be evaluating, and potentially closing transactions to acquire or merge with companies that have complementary products or technology. we look from time to time to acquire companies that have complementary products or technologies. in addition, we will evaluate certain opportunities to in-license or out-license or partner our products or technology with third parties as these opportunities may arise. in evaluating and closing such transactions, we may incur additional expenses and may need additional financing to consummate these transactions. these transactions may also be a distraction for the management team and take internal resources away from other priorities. any of these effects could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our inability to manage the future growth that we are attempting to achieve could severely harm our business. we believe that, given the right business opportunities, we may expand our operations rapidly and significantly. if rapid growth were to occur, it could place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. to manage any significant growth of our operations, we will be required to undertake the following successfully:     •   we are in the process of improving our financial systems and controls to support our expected growth and any inability to implement the new controls on a timely basis or as anticipated could adversely impact our ability to grow our business. our current and planned systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations and expected growth. delays or problems associated with any improvement or expansion of our operational systems and controls could adversely impact our relationships with customers and harm our reputation and brand; and     •   we will need to attract and retain qualified personnel, and any failure to do so may impair our ability to offer new products, successfully commercialize our existing products or grow our business. our success will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate managerial, technical, sales, marketing and administrative personnel. competition for such employees is intense and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. if we are unable to hire, train, retain or manage the necessary personnel, we may be unable to successfully introduce new products or otherwise implement our business strategy. if we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   23 table of contents our business and operations would be adversely impacted in the event of a failure or security breach of our information technology infrastructure. we rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. we are constantly updating our information technology infrastructure. any failure to manage, expand and update our information technology infrastructure or any failure in the operation of this infrastructure could harm our business. despite our implementation of security measures, our systems may be vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, and other similar disruptions. our business is also potentially vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by third parties as well as employees. any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. to the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could harm our business. in addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. in addition, implementation of new software programs, including the implementation of an enterprise resource planning program that we intend to install during fiscal 2013 may have adverse impact on us, including interruption of operations, loss of data, budget overruns and the consumption of management time and resources. we are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal controls over financial reporting. the sarbanes-oxley act requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. among other things, we must perform systems and processes evaluation testing. we must also conduct an assessment of our internal controls to allow management to report on, and our independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. in connection with our compliance efforts, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur or expend, substantial accounting and other expenses and significant management time and resources. our future assessment, or the future assessment by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal material weaknesses in our internal controls. if material weaknesses are identified in the future we would be required to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are ineffective, which would likely require additional financial and management resources and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. industry risks instability and volatility in the financial markets in the global economy are likely to have a negative impact on our ability to raise necessary funds. during the past several years, there has been substantial volatility in financial markets due in part to the global economic environment. in addition, there has been substantial uncertainty in the capital markets and access to financing is uncertain. these conditions are likely to have an adverse effect on our industry, licensing partners and business, including our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we expect to need to raise capital through equity sales and/or incur indebtedness, if available, to finance operations. however, continued volatility in the capital markets and the potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through sales of capital stock or through borrowings, in the public or private markets on terms that we believe to be reasonable, if at all. changes in trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including difficult market conditions, could adversely affect our operating results. industry trends and economic and political factors that affect pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies also affect our business. in the past, mergers, product withdrawal, liability lawsuits and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry have slowed decision-making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed   24 table of contents drug development projects. continuation or increases in these trends could have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, numerous governments, including the french government, have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies. if future cost-containment efforts limit the profits that can be derived on new drugs, our clients might reduce their drug discovery and development spending, which could reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device industries generally and drug discovery and development more specifically are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. our competitors, clients and others might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete. if competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to our technologies, services or products to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenue and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. we and our licensees are subject to numerous and complex government regulations which could result in delay and expense. governmental authorities in the u.s. and other countries heavily regulate the testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution, advertising and marketing of our proposed product candidates. none of our proprietary products under development have been approved for marketing in the u.s. before any products we develop are marketed, fda and comparable foreign agency approval must be obtained through an extensive clinical study and approval process. the studies involved in the approval process are conducted in three phases. in phase i studies, researchers assess safety or the most common acute adverse effects of a drug and examine the size of doses that patients can take safely without a high incidence of side effects. generally, twenty to 100 healthy volunteers or patients are studied in the phase i study for a period of several months. in phase ii studies, researchers determine the drug’s efficacy with short-term safety by administering the drug to subjects who have the condition the drug is intended to treat, assess whether the drug favorably affects the condition and begin to identify the correct dosage level. up to several hundred subjects may be studied in the phase ii study for approximately six to twelve months, depending on the type of product tested. in phase iii studies, researchers further assess efficacy and safety of the drug. several hundred to thousands of patients may be studied during the phase iii studies for a period from twelve months to several years. upon completion of phase iii studies, a new drug application is submitted to the fda or foreign governmental regulatory authority for review and approval. the failure to obtain requisite governmental approvals for our product candidates under development in a timely manner or at all would delay or preclude us and our licensees from marketing our product candidates or limit the commercial use of our product candidates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of on-going research, discovery and development activities or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. as a result of any such failure, we could be contractually required to perform repeat services at no further cost to our clients, but at a substantial cost to us. the issuance of a notice from regulatory authorities based upon a finding of a material violation by us of applicable requirements could result in contractual liability to our clients and/or the termination of ongoing studies, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, our reputation and prospects for future work could be materially and adversely diminished. because we intend that our product candidates will also be sold and marketed outside the u.s., we and/or our licensees will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product   25 table of contents licensing, pricing and reimbursements. these requirements vary widely from country to country. the failure to meet each foreign country’s requirements could delay the introduction of our proposed product candidates in the respective foreign country and limit our revenues from sales of our proposed product candidates in foreign markets. successful commercialization of our product candidates may depend on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party healthcare payers, such as government and private insurance plans. even if one or more products are successfully brought to market, reimbursement to consumers may not be available or sufficient to allow the realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development or to sell our product candidates on a competitive basis. in addition, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental controls. in the u.s., federal and state agencies have proposed similar governmental control and the u.s. congress has recently adopted regulatory reforms that affect companies engaged in the healthcare industry. pricing constraints on our product candidates in foreign markets and possibly in the u.s. could adversely affect our business and limit our revenues. we face uncertainty related to healthcare reform, pricing and reimbursement, which could reduce our revenue. in 2009 and 2010, the u.s. congress adopted legislation regarding health insurance, which has been signed into law. as a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for healthcare in the united states, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. these structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of private payers and government programs, such as medicare, medicaid and state children’s health insurance program, creation of a government-sponsored healthcare insurance source, or some combination of both, as well as other changes. restructuring the coverage of medical care in the united states could impact the reimbursement for prescribed drugs, biopharmaceuticals, medical devices or our product candidates. if reimbursement for our products is substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. recently, there have been efforts in the u.s. congress to defund the health insurance program described above. as a result of the political uncertainty surrounding the implementation of the health care legislation, it is unclear as to what laws, regulations, procedures and funding will be put into place in the near future. while, we do not expect our currently contemplated product candidates for men’s and women’s sexual health will rely on insurance reimbursement, such uncertainty may impact the reimbursement for certain prescribed drugs, biopharmaceuticals, medical devices or our product candidates. as described above, if reimbursement for our approved products is substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. sales of our products will depend in part on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers such as government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other health care related organizations. both the federal and state governments in the united states and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation affecting coverage and reimbursement policies, which are designed to contain or reduce the cost of health care. further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms are likely which could limit the prices that can be charged for the product candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our products and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations. adoption of our products by the medical community may be limited if third-party payers will not offer coverage. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for drugs, which in turn would   26 table of contents negatively affect the price that we will be able to charge. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payers to any drug candidate we have in development. any denial of private or government payer coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our products could harm our business and reduce our revenue. further, french authorities have recently enacted laws intended to promote generic versions of drugs, which is projected to reduce costs associated with prescription drugs. the new laws have resulted in decreased sales and prospects of sales of drugs that scomedica promotes, and as a result we have ceased funding these operations. risks related to owning our common stock we are vulnerable to volatile stock market conditions. the market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, have been highly volatile. the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. in addition, future announcements, such as the results of testing and clinical trials, the status of our relationships with third-party collaborators, technological innovations or new therapeutic products, governmental regulation, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, litigation or public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others and general market conditions concerning us, our competitors or other biopharmaceutical companies, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have been more likely to initiate securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. if any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. the lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. although our stockholders may receive dividends if, as and when declared by our board of directors, we do not intend to declare dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. therefore, you should not purchase our common stock if you need immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment. the anti-takeover provisions of our stockholder rights agreement may entrench management, may delay or prevent beneficial takeover bids by third parties and may prevent or frustrate any stockholder attempt to replace or remove the current management even if the stockholders consider it beneficial to do so. we have a stockholder rights agreement designed to protect our stockholders from coercive or unfair takeover tactics. pursuant to the agreement, we declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right (a “right”) for each share of common stock outstanding on april 1, 2011 (the “record date”). in addition, one right will automatically attach to each share of common stock issued after the record date. each right entitles the holder to purchase from us 1/10,000th of a share of series d junior participating cumulative preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share, for $20.00. in the event any acquiring entity or group accumulates or initiates a tender offer to purchase 15% or more of our common stock, then each holder of a preferred stock purchase right, other than the acquiring entity and its affiliates, will have the right to receive, upon exercise of the right, shares of our common stock or shares in the acquiring entity having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right. the intent of the stockholder rights agreement is to protect our stockholders’ interests by encouraging anyone seeking control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors. however, our stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders. this plan may discourage, delay or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt, including offers or attempts that could result in a premium over the market price of our common stock. this plan could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future. furthermore, the anti-takeover provisions of our stockholder rights agreement may entrench management and make it more difficult for stockholders to replace management even if the stockholders consider it beneficial to do so.   27 table of contents we may issue additional shares of our capital stock that could dilute the value of your shares of common stock. we are authorized to issue 85,000,000 shares of our capital stock, consisting of 75,000,000 shares of our common stock and 10,000,000 shares of our preferred stock. in december 2011, we entered into an at-the-market offering facility under which we may, from time to time, sell up to $20.0 million worth of our common stock over a two-year period ($17.2 million remains available as of march 13, 2013). in light of our possible future need for additional financing, we may also issue additional shares of common stock at below current market prices or additional convertible securities that could dilute the earnings per share and book value of your shares of our common stock. these issuances would dilute existing stockholders and could depress the value of our common stock. in addition to provisions providing for proportionate adjustments in the event of stock splits, stock dividends, reverse stock splits and similar events, certain outstanding warrants and convertible instruments currently representing the right to acquire 1,544,402 shares of common stock provide (with certain exceptions) for an adjustment of the exercise or conversion price if we issue shares of common stock at prices lower than the then exercise or conversion price or the then prevailing market price. this means that if we need to raise equity financing at a time when the market price for our common stock is lower than the exercise or conversion price, or if we need to provide a new equity investor with a discount from the then prevailing market price, then the exercise price will be reduced and the dilution to stockholders increased. our stock has previously been subject to delisting proceedings on nasdaq and could be subject to such proceedings in the future currently, our common stock trades on the nasdaq capital market. we have previously received notifications from nasdaq informing us of certain listing deficiencies, including failure to satisfy the minimum bid price and the minimum stockholders’ equity. although we have since cured these deficiencies, it is possible that we could fall out of compliance again in the future. if we fail to maintain compliance with any listing requirements, we could be delisted and our stock would be considered a penny stock under regulations of the securities and exchange commission and would therefore be subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities. the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the common stock and your ability to sell our securities in the secondary market. in addition, if we fail to maintain our listing on nasdaq or any other united states securities exchange, quotation system, market or over-the-counter bulletin board, we will be subject to cash penalties under certain investor agreements to which we are a party until a listing is obtained.   item 1b. unresolved