item 1a. risk factors.   factors that could affect our future results   risks related to the company   we may continue to require external financing to fund our operations, which may not be available.   we expect our current cash reserves to provide us with sufficient cash to fund our operations into at least 2014.  while our subsidiaries nexmed (usa), inc. (“nexmed”) and apricus pharmaceuticals usa, inc. (“apricus pharmaceuticals”) expected to generate revenues that partially offset our operating expenses, we do not believe that these subsidiaries will generate positive cash flow needed to fund our ongoing operations in 2012, including the development of our current product candidates under development at our nexmed subsidiary, the oncology supportive products being marketed at our apricus pharmaceuticals subsidiary and the annual costs to remain a public company, including legal, audit and listing fees.  given our current lack of profitability, we may not be able to commence human clinical trials for certain of our later stage product candidates under development and to study other product candidates currently under pre-clinical development.  if we are unable to accomplish these objectives, we would be unable to advance certain programs and may be forced to curtail certain of our operations.   12     we will continue to incur operating losses.   we have not marketed or generated product sales revenues or royalty revenues in the u.s. or foreign countries from our product candidates under development, we have never been profitable and have incurred an accumulated deficit of approximately $219 million since our inception through december 31, 2011. our ability to generate revenues and to achieve profitability and positive cash flow will depend on the successful licensing and commercialization of our nexact® product candidates currently approved or in human clinical trials and those earlier stage products and technology under development and the ability to grow apricus pharmaceuticals’ oncology supportive products sales business to a level sufficient to generate positive operating income. in addition, since apricus pharmaceuticals’ oncology supportive products is a new business for the company, it is uncertain whether these efforts will be successful and that nexmed’s or apricus pharmaceuticals’ revenues may grow at the levels that we have projected.   our ability to become profitable will depend, among other things, on our (1) development of our proposed nexact® product candidates, (2) obtaining of regulatory approvals of our proposed nexact® product candidates and certain apricus pharmaceuticals oncology supportive products, (3) success in licensing, manufacturing, distributing and marketing our proposed product nexact® candidates, if approved, (4) increasing sales of apricus pharmaceuticals’ oncology supportive products and (5) increasing the profitability of apricus bio through acquisitions and organic growth of its current operations.  if we are unable to accomplish these objectives, we may be unable to achieve profitability and would need to raise additional capital to sustain our operations.   we have only limited history of selling products and have only limited resources for commercialization.    with our acquisition of topotarget usa, inc., in december 2011, we acquired a small u.s.-based sales force and a sales support organization for oncology supportive products. that sales force has a few years of sales experience selling the totect® drug, but it has no experience selling other oncology supportive products. with our two recent co-promotion agreements with pediatrx, inc. for granisol® and with bi-coastal pharmaceuticals inc. for aquoral™, we will now be providing our sales force with these additional oncology supportive products. because our sales force has not had any experience selling granisol® and aquoral™, we cannot predict their level of success selling these two drugs. due to our limited commercial experience and resources, there can be no assurance we will successfully commercialize any of the products that we have acquired or may acquire.     if we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully operate our business.   our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with healthcare providers, clinicians and scientists.  we are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff, particularly bassam damaj, ph.d., our chairman, president and chief executive officer.  although we have employment agreements with some of our executives, these agreements are generally terminable at will at any time, and, therefore, we may not be able to retain their services as expected. the loss of services of one or more members of our senior management and scientific staff could delay or prevent us from obtaining new clients and successfully operating our business.  competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals field is intense, particularly in the san diego, california area, where our offices are located.  we may need to hire additional personnel as we expand our commercial activities.  we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms.   our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business with our clients and to get business from new clients, particularly in the drug development sector, also depends on our ability to subcontract and retain scientific staff with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug development technologies.   we currently have no vitaros® sales force or marketing organization and will need, but may not be able, to attract marketing partners or afford qualified or experienced marketing and sales personnel for vitaros® and our nexact® product candidates under development.   our first nexact® product, vitaros®, has been approved by health canada for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in that country.  even though we have filed to obtain approval for vitaros® in numerous foreign countries, we have no internal vitaros® sales and marketing capabilities.  in order to market vitaros® or any other nexact® product candidate that may be approved, we will need to build a nexact®-focused sales and marketing infrastructure and/or attract marketing partners that will need to spend significant funds to inform potential customers, including third-party distributors, of the distinctive characteristics and benefits of our product candidates. our operating results and long term success will depend, among other things, on our ability to establish (1) successful arrangements with domestic and additional international distributors and marketing partners and (2) if we cannot find such partners or choose to market and sell the vitaros® and other nexact® products directly to customers, an effective internal marketing and sales organization.  consummation of vitaros® and nexact® partnering arrangements is subject to the negotiation of complex contractual relationships, and we may not be able to negotiate such agreements on a timely basis, if at all, or on terms acceptable to us.  if we enter into third party arrangements, our revenues from vitaros® sales would be lower as we would share the revenues with our licensing, commercialization and development partners.  if we are unable to launch the drug, in certain countries, we may realize little or no revenue from sales in such markets where it is or may be approved.   13     pre-clinical and clinical trials are inherently unpredictable.  if we or our partners do not successfully conduct these trials or gain regulatory approval, we or our partners may be unable to market our product candidates.   through pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, our product candidates must be demonstrated to be safe and effective for their indicated uses. results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of, or allow for prediction of results in later-stage testing.  many of the pre-clinical studies that we have conducted are in animals with “models” of human disease states.  although these tests are widely used as screening mechanisms for drug candidates before being advanced to human clinical studies, results in animal studies are less reliable predictors of safety and efficacy than results of human clinical studies.  future clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates or may not result in regulatory approval to market our product candidates.  commercial sales in the united states of our product candidates cannot begin until final fda approval is received and commercial sales outside the united states cannot begin until specific foreign regulatory approval is obtained.  to date, vitaros® has only been approved for commercialization in canada and the failure of the fda or a foreign regulatory agency to approve vitaros® or any of our other product candidates for commercial sales will have a material adverse effect on our prospects.  we have sold rights to our vitaros® product for erectile dysfunction to warner chilcott for sales into the us.  warner chilcott has not been successful in obtaining approval for vitaros® in the united states and any inability to have the drug approved by the fda for that indication could have a negative effect on the sales of vitaros® by the company’s licensing and commercialization partners and could have a negative effect on the company’s stock price.   patents and intellectual property rights are important to us but could be challenged.   proprietary protection for our pharmaceutical products and products under development is of material importance to our business in the u.s. and most other countries. we have sought and will continue to seek proprietary protection for our product candidates to attempt to prevent others from commercializing equivalent products in substantially less time and at substantially lower expense. our success may depend on our ability to (1) obtain effective patent protection within the u.s. and internationally for our proprietary technologies and products, (2) defend patents we own, (3) preserve our trade secrets, and (4) operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others.  in addition, we have agreed to indemnify our partners for certain liabilities with respect to the defense, protection and/or validity of our patents and would also be required to incur costs or forego revenue if it is necessary for our partners to acquire third party patent licenses in order for them to exercise the licenses acquired from us.   we currently own approximately 142 issued patents and 153 patent applications, including six allowed patent applications, on our nexact® technology, our acquired products and on our other products and technologies throughout the world and nineteen we have exclusively licensed from third parties. to further strengthen our global patent position on our proprietary products under development, and to expand the patent protection to other markets, we have filed under the patent cooperation treaty corresponding international applications for our issued u.s. patents and pending u.s. patent applications.  we previously held two patents covering the first generation of the nexact® technology enhancer, which expired in 2008 and 2010.  while we believe there are significant disadvantages, technical difficulties and lack of human exposure and safety to using the permeation enhancers covered by these expired patents, third parties may nevertheless develop competitive products using the enhancer technology now that it is no longer patent protected   while we have obtained patents and have many patent applications pending, the extent of effective patent protection in the u.s. and other countries is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions.  no consistent policy addresses the breadth of claims allowed in or the degree of protection afforded under patents of medical and pharmaceutical companies.  patents we currently own or may obtain might not be sufficiently broad enough to protect us against competitors with similar technology.  any of our patents could be invalidated or circumvented.   while we believe that our patents would prevail in any potential litigation, the holders of competing patents could determine to commence a lawsuit against us and even prevail in any such lawsuit.  we have also sold certain patents in transactions where we have licensed out rights to our drug candidates.  in certain of these transactions, we have agreed to indemnify the purchaser from third party patent claims, which could expose us to potentially significant damages for patents that we no longer own.  any litigation could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, which may harm our business. in addition, our efforts to protect or defend our proprietary rights may not be successful or, even if successful, may result in substantial cost to us.   we and our licensees depend upon third party manufacturers for chemical manufacturing supplies and for the manufacture of our products.   we and our licensees are dependent on third party chemical manufacturers for the active drugs in our nexact®-based products under development for the supply of our nexact® enhancers that are essential in the formulation and production of our topical products.  these products must be supplied on a timely basis and at satisfactory quality levels.  if our validated third party chemical manufacturers fail to produce quality products on time and in sufficient quantities, our results would suffer, as we or our licensees would encounter costs and delays in revalidating new third party suppliers   we also do not manufacture any of our nexact® products, our oncology supportive products and other of our products ourselves. as such we are dependent on third party manufacturers for the supply of these products. these third party manufacturers are often subject to good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, fda and other regulatory regulations and review and are also subject to other timelines that could cause such manufacturers to fail to produce products on time and in sufficient quantities. for example, prior to our purchase of topotarget usa, inc., that company’s manufacturer of its totect® drug was subject to an fda warning letter and, as a result, topotarget usa, inc. and now the company seeks to qualify a second manufacturer for that product. as a result, our results would suffer, as we or our licensees would encounter costs and delays in revalidating new third party suppliers or manufacturers.   14     we face a high degree of competition.   we are engaged in a highly competitive industry. we and our licensees can expect competition from numerous companies, including large international enterprises, and others entering the market for products similar to ours. most of these companies have greater research and development, manufacturing, patent, legal, marketing, financial, technological, personnel and managerial resources. acquisitions of competing companies by large pharmaceutical or healthcare companies could further enhance such competitors’ financial, marketing and other resources. competitors may complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and commence commercial sales of their products before we could enjoy a significant competitive advantage. products developed by our competitors may be more effective than our product candidates.   our pharmaceutical expenditures may not result in commercially successful products.   we cannot be sure our business expenditures will result in the successful acquisition, development or launch of products that will prove to be commercially successful or will improve the long-term profitability of our business. if such business expenditures do not result in successful acquisition, development or launch of commercially successful brand products, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   we may be subject to potential product liability and other claims, creating risks and expense.   we are also exposed to potential product liability risks inherent in the development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human therapeutic products.  product liability insurance for the pharmaceutical industry is extremely expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. we have liability insurance to cover claims related to our products and product candidates that may have arisen from clinical trials that had taken place in prior years, with coverage on average of $2 million for any one claim and coverage of $3 million in total.  we currently maintain product liability insurance for vitaros®, our product that is approved in canada for erectile dysfunction, and for our products totect®, granisol® and aquoral™ in the united states. we also have plans to extend the insurance policy described above in those countries and in others where our partners will market and sell those products and any others that receive approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities therein.  we may need to acquire such insurance coverage prior to the commercial introduction of our product candidates in other countries. if we obtain such coverage, we have no guarantee that the coverage limits of such insurance policies will be adequate. a successful claim against us if we are uninsured, or which is in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, could have a material adverse effect upon us and on our financial condition.   our realization of future earn-out income over the next ten years from the sale of our bio-quant subsidiary to samm solutions, inc. d/b/a/ biotox sciences (“biotox”) may be adversely effected by the ability of biotox to realize revenue and cash flows from the operation of the joint companies as well as other internal and external factors that could affect the success of this contract research organization (“cro”).   as part of our sale of our wholly-owned subsidiary, bio-quant, inc., to biotox, we were paid approximately $500,000 as an up-front payment and, after the second anniversary of the closing of that transaction, are to be paid the higher of $500,000 per year or a double digit royalty payment per year over the next 9-year period for a total of minimum future payments of $4.5 million.  the annual payments are secured by a first priority secured lien on the assets of bio-quant as well as the assets of biotox for a certain period of time after the closing date of the transaction.   we may not realize the maximum potential payment, or even the minimum guaranteed payment, based on either internal or external factors relating to the operation of bio-quant by biotox and various other domestic and international factors that may affect the cro business in general.   also, the success of bio-quant may be affected by changes that are occurring in the cro business in general in the united states, namely the competition from lower cost cros in china, india and other countries. we have established a full reserve against the amount receivable for biotox.   from time to time, we will be evaluating, and potentially closing transactions to acquire or merge with companies that have complementary products or technology.   we are currently looking to acquire companies that have complementary products or technologies. in addition, we will evaluate certain opportunities to in-license or out-license or partner our products or technology with third parties as these opportunity may arise.   15     in evaluating and closing such transactions, we may incur additional expenses and may need additional financing to consummate these transactions. these transactions may also be a distraction for the management team and take internal resources away from other priorities. any of these effects could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.   our inability to manage the future growth that we are attempting to achieve could severely harm our business.   we believe that, given the right business opportunities, we may expand our operations rapidly and significantly. if rapid growth were to occur, it could place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. to manage any significant growth of our operations, we will be required to undertake the following successfully:   • we will need to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to support our expected growth and any inability to do so will adversely impact our ability to grow our business. our current and planned systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations and expected growth. delays or problems associated with any improvement or expansion of our operational systems and controls could adversely impact our relationships with customers and harm our reputation and brand; and • we will need to attract and retain qualified personnel, and any failure to do so may impair our ability to offer new products, successfully commercialize our existing products, or grow our business. our success will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate managerial, technical, sales, marketing and administrative personnel. competition for such employees is intense and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel.   if we are unable to hire, train, retain or manage the necessary personnel, we may be unable to successfully introduce new products or otherwise implement our business strategy. if we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   industry risks   we are vulnerable to volatile stock market conditions.   the market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, have been highly volatile. the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. in addition, future announcements, such as the results of testing and clinical trials, the status of our relationships with third-party collaborators, technological innovations or new therapeutic products, governmental regulation, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, litigation or public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others and general market conditions, concerning us, our competitors or other biopharmaceutical companies, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock.   instability and volatility in the financial markets and the global economic recession are likely to have a negative impact on our ability to raise necessary funds and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   during the past several years, there has been substantial volatility and a decline in financial markets due in part to the lethargic global economic environment.  in addition, there has been substantial uncertainty in the capital markets and access to financing is uncertain.  these conditions are likely to have an adverse effect on our industry, licensing partners, and business, including our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   to the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise capital through equity sales and/or incur indebtedness, if available, to finance operations.  however, recent turmoil in the capital markets and the potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through sales of capital stock or through borrowings, under either existing or newly created instruments in the public or private markets on terms that we believe to be reasonable, if at all.   16     changes in trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including difficult market conditions, could adversely affect our operating results.   industry trends and economic and political factors that affect pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies also affect our business.  for example, the practice of many companies in these industries has been to hire companies like us to conduct discovery, research and development activities.  if these companies suspend these activities or otherwise reduce their expenditures on outsourced discovery, research and development in light of current difficult conditions in credit markets and the economy in general, or for any other reason, our operations, financial condition and growth rate could be materially and adversely affected.  in the past, mergers, product withdrawal and liability lawsuits, and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry have also slowed decision-making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed drug development projects.  continuation or increases in these trends could have an adverse effect on our business.  in addition, numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies.  if future cost-containment efforts limit the profits that can be derived on new drugs, our clients might reduce their drug discovery and development spending, which could reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.   the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device industries generally and drug discovery and development more specifically are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes.  our competitors, clients and others might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete.  if competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to our technologies, services or products to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenue and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected.   we and our licensees are subject to numerous and complex government regulations which could result in delay and expense.   governmental authorities in the u.s. and other countries heavily regulate the testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution, advertising and marketing of our proposed product candidates. none of our proprietary products under development has been approved for marketing in the u.s. before any products we develop are marketed, fda and comparable foreign agency approval must be obtained through an extensive clinical study and approval process.    the studies involved in the approval process are conducted in three phases.  in phase 1 studies, researchers assess safety or the most common acute adverse effects of a drug and examine the size of doses that patients can take safely without a high incidence of side effects. generally, 20 to 100 healthy volunteers or patients are studied in the phase 1 study for a period of several months. in phase 2 studies, researchers determine the drug’s efficacy with short-term safety by administering the drug to subjects who have the condition the drug is intended to treat, assess whether the drug favorably affects the condition, and begin to identify the correct dosage level. up to several hundred subjects may be studied in the phase 2 study for approximately 6 to 12 months, depending on the type of product tested. in phase 3 studies, researchers further assess efficacy and safety of the drug. several hundred to thousands of patients may be studied during the phase 3 studies for a period from 12 months to several years. upon completion of phase 3 studies, a new drug application is submitted to the fda or foreign governmental regulatory authority for review and approval.   the failure to obtain requisite governmental approvals for our product candidates under development in a timely manner or at all would delay or preclude us and our licensees from marketing our product candidates or limit the commercial use of our product candidates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of on-going research, discovery and development activities or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities.   as a result of any such failure, we could be contractually required to perform repeat services at no further cost to our clients, but at a substantial cost to us.  the issuance of a notice from regulatory authorities based upon a finding of a material violation by us of applicable requirements could result in contractual liability to our clients and/or the termination of ongoing studies which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  furthermore, our reputation and prospects for future work could be materially and adversely diminished.   because we intend that our product candidates will be sold and marketed outside the u.s., we and/or our licensees will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursements. these requirements vary widely from country to country. the failure to meet each foreign country’s requirements could delay the introduction of our proposed product candidates in the respective foreign country and limit our revenues from sales of our proposed product candidates in foreign markets.   successful commercialization of our product candidates may depend on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party healthcare payers, such as government and private insurance plans. even if one or more products is successfully brought to market, reimbursement to consumers may not be available or sufficient to allow the realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development or to sell our product candidates on a competitive basis. in addition, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental controls. in the u.s., federal and state agencies have proposed similar governmental control and the u.s. congress has recently adopted regulatory reforms that affect companies engaged in the healthcare industry. pricing constraints on our product candidates in foreign markets and possibly in the u.s. could adversely affect our business and limit our revenues.   17     we face uncertainty related to healthcare reform, pricing and reimbursement which could reduce our revenue.   in 2009 and 2010, the u.s. congress adopted legislation regarding health insurance, which has been signed into law. as a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for healthcare in the united states, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. these structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of private payers and government programs, such as medicare, medicaid and state children’s health insurance program, creation of a government-sponsored healthcare insurance source, or some combination of both, as well as other changes. restructuring the coverage of medical care in the united states could impact the reimbursement for prescribed drugs, biopharmaceuticals, medical devices, or our product candidates. if reimbursement for our products is substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted.   recently, there have been efforts in the u.s. congress to defund the health insurance program described above.  as a result of the political uncertainty surrounding the implementation of the health care legislation, it is unclear as to what laws, regulations, procedures and funding will be put into place in the near future.  such uncertainty may impact the reimbursement for certain prescribed drugs, biopharmaceuticals, medical devices, or our product candidates. as described above, if reimbursement for our approved products is substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted.   sales of our products will depend in part on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers such as government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other health care related organizations.  both the federal and state governments in the united states and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation affecting coverage and reimbursement policies, which are designed to contain or reduce the cost of health care. further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms are likely which could limit the prices that can be charged for the product candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our products and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations.   adoption of our products by the medical community may be limited if third-party payers will not offer coverage. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for drugs, which in turn would negatively affect the price that we will be able to charge. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payers to any drug candidate we have in development. any denial of private or government payer coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our products could harm our business and reduce our revenue.   risks related to owning our common stock   we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.   although our stockholders may receive dividends if, as and when declared by our board of directors, we do not intend to declare dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. therefore, you should not purchase our common stock if you need immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment.   the anti-takeover provisions of our stockholder rights agreement may entrench management, may delay or prevent beneficial takeover bids by third parties and may prevent or frustrate any stockholder attempt to replace or remove the current management even if the stockholders consider it beneficial to do so.   we have a stockholder rights agreement designed to protect our stockholders from coercive or unfair takeover tactics. pursuant to the agreement, we declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right (a “right”) for each share of common stock outstanding on april 1, 2011 (the “record date”). in addition, one right will automatically attach to each share of common stock issued after the record date.  each right entitles the holder to purchase from us 1/10,000th of a share of series d junior participating cumulative preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share, for $20.00. in the event any acquiring entity or group accumulates or initiates a tender offer to purchase 15% or more of our common stock, then each holder of a preferred stock purchase right, other than the acquiring entity and its affiliates, will have the right to receive, upon exercise of the right, shares of our common stock or shares in the acquiring entity having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right.   18       the intent of the stockholder rights agreement is to protect our stockholders’ interests by encouraging anyone seeking control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors. however, our stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders. this plan may discourage, delay or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt, including offers or attempts that could result in a premium over the market price of our common stock. this plan could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future. furthermore, the anti-takeover provisions of our stockholder rights agreement may entrench management and make it more difficult for stockholders to replace management even if the stockholders consider it beneficial to do so.   we may issue additional shares of our capital stock that could dilute the value of your shares of common stock.   we are authorized to issue 85,000,000 shares of our capital stock, consisting of 75,000,000 shares of our common stock and 10,000,000 shares of our preferred stock. on december 29, 2011, we entered into a controlled equity offering agreement with ascendiant capital markets, llc (“ascendiant”), under which we may, from time to time, sell up to $20 million worth of our common stock over a two year period. in light of our possible future need for additional financing, we may also issue additional shares of common stock at below current market prices or additional convertible securities that could dilute the earnings per share and book value of your shares of our common stock.  these issuances would dilute existing stockholders and could depress the value of our common stock.   in addition to provisions providing for proportionate adjustments in the event of stock splits, stock dividends, reverse stock splits and similar events, certain outstanding warrants and convertible instruments currently representing the right to acquire 712,396 shares of common stock provide (with certain exceptions) for an adjustment of the exercise or conversion price if we issue shares of common stock at prices lower than the then exercise or conversion price or the then prevailing market price. this means that if we need to raise equity financing at a time when the market price for our common stock is lower than the exercise or conversion price, or if we need to provide a new equity investor with a discount from the then prevailing market price, then the exercise price will be reduced and the dilution to stockholders increased.   our stock has previously been subject to delisting proceedings on nasdaq and could be subject to such proceedings in the future   currently, our common stock trades on the nasdaq capital market.  we have previously received notifications from nasdaq informing us of certain listing deficiencies, including failure to satisfy the minimum bid price and the minimum stockholders’ equity.  although we have since cured these deficiencies, it is possible that we could fall out of compliance again in the future.  if we fail to maintain compliance with any listing requirements, we could be delisted and our stock would be considered a penny stock under regulations of the securities and exchange commission and would therefore be subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities. the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the common stock and your ability to sell our securities in the secondary market. in addition, if we fail to maintain our listing on nasdaq or any other united states securities exchange, quotation system, market or over-the-counter bulletin board, we will be subject to cash penalties under certain investor agreements to which we are a party until a listing is obtained.   risks related to our requirement to maintain and operate an effective system of internal controls   we are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal controls over financial reporting.   the sarbanes-oxley act requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. among other things, we must perform systems and processes evaluation testing. we must also conduct an assessment of our internal controls to allow management to report on, and our independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financing reporting, as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. in connection with our compliance efforts, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur or expend, substantial accounting and other expenses and significant management time and resources. our future assessment, or the future assessment by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal material weaknesses in our internal controls. if material weaknesses are identified in the future we would be required to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are ineffective, which would likely require additional financial and management resources and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   item 1b. unresolved