item 1a. risk factors. factors that could affect our future results risks related to the company we continue to require external financing to fund our operations, which may not be available. we expect our current cash reserves to provide us with sufficient cash to fund our operations into the second half  of 2012.  while our cro subsidiary, bio-quant, is expected to continue to generate revenues that partially offset our operating expenses, we do not believe that bio-quant will generate positive cash flow needed to fund our ongoing operations, including the development of our current products under development at our nexmed subsidiary and the annual costs to remain a public company, including legal, audit and listing fees.  given our current lack of profitability, we may not be able to commence human clinical trials for certain of  our later stage product candidates under development and to study other products currently under pre-clinical development unless we raise additional capital, enter into additional licensing and commercialization agreements, partnering agreements.  if we are unable to accomplish these objectives, we would be unable to advance certain programs and may be forced to curtail our operations.     13     we will continue to incur operating losses. we have not marketed or generated sales revenues in the u.s. or foreign countries from our product candidates under development, we have never been profitable and have incurred an accumulated deficit of approximately $201,240,208 million since our inception through december 31, 2010. our ability to generate revenues and to achieve profitability and positive cash flow will depend on the successful licensing and commercialization of our product candidates currently approved or in human clinical trials and those earlier stage products and technology under development and the ability to grow bio-quant’s pre-clinical service business to a level sufficient to generate positive operating income to cover the costs of our operations, including maintaining our public listing.  in the year ended december 31, 2010, bio-quant’s revenues did not grow as management resources shifted to development efforts for our product candidates and a significant portion of the bio-quant resources were allocated to studies of the nexact® technology.  although we have added additional personnel and consultants in 2010 to the bio-quant business in an effort to bolster revenues, it is uncertain whether these efforts will be successful and the bio-quant revenues may not continue at historical levels or grow at the levels that we have projected. our ability to become profitable will depend, among other things, on our (1) development of our proposed product candidates, (2) obtaining of regulatory approvals of our proposed product candidates, (3) success in licensing, manufacturing, distributing and marketing our proposed product candidates, if approved, and (4) increasing the profitability of apricus bio through acquisitions and organic growth of its current operations.  if we are unable to accomplish these objectives, we may be unable to achieve profitability and would need to raise additional capital to sustain our operations. if we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully operate our business. our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel and on its ability to develop and maintain important relationships with healthcare providers, clinicians and scientists.  we are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff, particularly bassam damaj, ph.d., our chairman, president and chief executive officer.  although we have employment agreements with some of our executives, these agreements are generally terminable at will at any time, and, therefore, we may not be able to retain their services as expected. the loss of services of one or more members of our senior management and scientific staff could delay or prevent us from obtaining new clients and successfully operating our business.  competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals field is intense, particularly in the san diego, california area, where our offices are located.  we may need to hire additional personnel as we expand our commercial activities.  we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business with our clients and to get business from new clients, particularly in the drug development sector, also depends on our ability to subcontract and retain scientific staff with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug development technologies. we currently have no sales force or marketing organization and will need, but may not be able, to attract marketing partners or afford qualified or experienced marketing and sales personnel for our product candidates under development. our first product, vitaros®, has been approved by health canada for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in that country.  even though vitaros® is approved for marketing in canada, we have currently entered into license and marketing relationships with partners in certain countries (but none in canada) and we have no internal sales and marketing capabilities.  in order to market vitaros® or any other product candidate directly to customers that may be approved in canada or in other countries, we will need to build a sales and marketing infrastructure and/or attract marketing partners that will need to spend significant funds to inform potential customers, including third-party distributors, of the distinctive characteristics and benefits of our product candidates. our operating results and long term success will depend, among other things, on our ability to establish (1) successful arrangements with domestic and additional international distributors and marketing partners and (2) if we cannot find such partners or choose to market and sell the product directly to customers, an effective internal marketing and sales organization.  consummation of partnering arrangements is subject to the negotiation of complex contractual relationships, and we may not be able to negotiate such agreements on a timely basis, if at all, or on terms acceptable to us.  if we enter into third party arrangements, our revenues from vitaros® sales would be lower as we would share the revenues with our licensing, commercialization and development partners.  if we are unable to launch the drug, we may realize little or no revenue from sales in canada or other markets where it is or may be approved.     14     pre-clinical and clinical trials are inherently unpredictable.  if we or our partners do not successfully conduct these trials or gain regulatory approval, we or our partners may be unable to market our product candidates. through pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, our product candidates must be demonstrated to be safe and effective for their indicated uses. results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of, or allow for prediction of results in later-stage testing.  many of the pre-clinical studies that we have conducted are in animals with “models” of human disease states.  although these tests are widely used as screening mechanisms for drug candidates before being advanced to human clinical studies, results in animal studies are less reliable predictors of safety and efficacy than results of human clinical studies.  future clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates or may not result in regulatory approval to market our product candidates.  commercial sales in the united states of our product candidates cannot begin until final fda approval is received.  the failure of the fda to approve our product candidates for commercial sales will have a material adverse effect on our prospects.  we have sold rights to our vitaros® product for erectile dysfunction to warner chilcott for sales into the us.  warner chilcott has not had vitaro® for erectile dysfunction approved by the fda at this time and any inability by it to have the drug approved by the fda for that indication could have a negative effect on the sales of vitaros® by the company’s licensing and commercialization partners and could have a negative effect on the company’s stock price. patents and intellectual property rights are important to us but could be challenged. proprietary protection for our pharmaceutical products and products under development is of material importance to our business in the u.s. and most other countries. we have sought and will continue to seek proprietary protection for our product candidates to attempt to prevent others from commercializing equivalent products in substantially less time and at substantially lower expense. our success may depend on our ability to (1) obtain effective patent protection within the u.s. and internationally for our proprietary technologies and products, (2) defend patents we own, (3) preserve our trade secrets, and (4) operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others.  in addition, we have agreed to indemnify our partners for certain liabilities with respect to the defense, protection and/or validity of our patents and would also be required to incur costs or forego revenue if it is necessary for our partners to acquire third party patent licenses in order for them to exercise the licenses acquired from us. we currently hold thirteen u.s. patents out of a series of u.s. patent applications that we have filed in connection with our nexact® technology and our nexact®-based products under development. to further strengthen our global patent position on our proprietary products under development, and to expand the patent protection to other markets, we have filed under the patent cooperation treaty corresponding international applications for our issued u.s. patents and pending u.s. patent applications.  we previously held two patents covering the first generation of the nexact® technology enhancer, which expired in 2008 and 2010.  while we believe there are significant disadvantages to using the permeation enhancers covered by these expired patents, third parties may nevertheless develop competitive products using the enhancer technology now that it is no longer patent protected. while we have obtained patents and have many patent applications pending, the extent of effective patent protection in the u.s. and other countries is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions.  no consistent policy addresses the breadth of claims allowed in or the degree of protection afforded under patents of medical and pharmaceutical companies.  patents we currently own or may obtain might not be sufficiently broad enough to protect us against competitors with similar technology.  any of our patents could be invalidated or circumvented. while we believe that our patents would prevail in any potential litigation, the holders of competing patents could determine to commence a lawsuit against us and even prevail in any such lawsuit.  we have also sold certain patents in transactions where we have licensed out rights to our drug candidates.  in certain of these transactions, we have agreed to indemnify the purchaser from third party patent claims, which could expose us to potentially significant damages for patents that we no longer own.  any litigation could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, which may harm our business. in addition, our efforts to protect or defend our proprietary rights may not be successful or, even if successful, may result in substantial cost to us.     15     we and our licensees depend upon third party manufacturers for chemical manufacturing supplies. we and our licensees are dependent on third party chemical manufacturers for the active drugs in our nexact®-based products under development, and for the supply of our nexact® enhancers that are essential in the formulation and production of our topical products.  these products must be supplied on a timely basis and at satisfactory quality levels.  if our validated third party chemical manufacturers fail to produce quality products on time and in sufficient quantities, our results would suffer, as we or our licensees would encounter costs and delays in revalidating new third party suppliers. we face severe competition. we are engaged in a highly competitive industry. we and our licensees can expect competition from numerous companies, including large international enterprises, and others entering the market for products similar to ours. most of these companies have greater research and development, manufacturing, patent, legal, marketing, financial, technological, personnel and managerial resources. acquisitions of competing companies by large pharmaceutical or healthcare companies could further enhance such competitors’ financial, marketing and other resources. competitors may complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and commence commercial sales of their products before we could enjoy a significant competitive advantage. products developed by our competitors may be more effective than our product candidates. the bio-quant cro business primarily competes against in-house departments of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies, academic institutions and other contract research organizations in the u.s. and abroad. competitors in bio-quant’s industry range from small, limited-service providers to full service, global contract research organizations.  many of bio-quant’s competitors have an established global presence.. in addition, many of bio-quant’s competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than bio-quant does and offer a broader range of services in more geographical areas than bio-quant does.  significant factors, among others, in determining whether bio-quant will be able to compete successfully include: its consultative capabilities; its reputation for on-time quality performance; its expertise and experience in specific drug discovery, research and development areas; the scope of its service offerings; its strength in various geographic markets; the price of its services; and its size. if bio-quant’s services are not competitive-based on these or other factors and bio-quant is unable to develop an adequate level of new business, its business, backlog position, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected.  in addition, bio-quant may compete for fewer clients arising out of consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry and the growing tendency of drug companies to outsource to a smaller number of preferred contract research organizations that have far greater resources and capabilities or that have lower cost structures owing to more inexpensive labor wages. bio-quant’s services may from time to time experience periods of increased price competition that could have a material adverse effect on its profitability and revenues.  additionally, the cro industry is not highly capital-intensive, and the financial costs of entry into the industry are relatively low.  therefore, as a general matter, the industry has few barriers to entry.  newer, smaller entities with specialty focuses, such as those aligned to a specific disease or therapeutic area, may compete aggressively against bio-quant for clients which may cause bio-quant to seek strategic alternatives with its competitors. we may be subject to potential product liability and other claims, creating risks and expense. we are also exposed to potential product liability risks inherent in the development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human therapeutic products.  product liability insurance for the pharmaceutical industry is extremely expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. we had liability insurance to cover claims related to our products and product candidates that may have arisen from clinical trials that had taken place in prior years, with coverage of $1 million for any one claim and coverage of $3 million in total.  the coverage will be reinstated when we once again have product candidates in clinical trials. we do not currently maintain product liability insurance for vitaros®, our product that is approved in canada for erectile dysfunction, but we have plans to reinstate the insurance policy described above in that country and in others where our partners will market and sell that products and any others that receive approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities therein.  we may need to acquire such insurance coverage prior to the commercial introduction of our product candidates in canada and other countries. if we obtain such coverage, we have no guarantee that the coverage limits of such insurance policies will be adequate. a successful claim against us if we are uninsured, or which is in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, could have a material adverse effect upon us and on our financial condition.     16     industry risks we are vulnerable to volatile stock market conditions. the market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, have been highly volatile. the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. in addition, future announcements, such as the results of testing and clinical trials, the status of our relationships with third-party collaborators, technological innovations or new therapeutic products, governmental regulation, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, litigation or public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others and general market conditions, concerning us, our competitors or other biopharmaceutical companies, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. instability and volatility in the financial markets and the global economic recession are likely to have a negative impact on our ability to raise necessary funds and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. during the past several years, there has been substantial volatility and a decline in financial markets due in part to the lethargic global economic environment.  in addition, there has been substantial uncertainty in the capital markets and access to financing is uncertain.  these conditions are likely to have an adverse effect on our industry, licensing partners, and business, including our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. to the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise capital through equity sales and/or incur indebtedness, if available, to finance operations.  however, recent turmoil in the capital markets and the potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through sales of capital stock or through borrowings, under either existing or newly created instruments in the public or private markets on terms that we believe to be reasonable, if at all. changes in trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including difficult market conditions, could adversely affect our operating results. industry trends and economic and political factors that affect pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies also affect our business.  for example, the practice of many companies in these industries has been to hire companies like us to conduct discovery, research and development activities.  if these companies suspend these activities or otherwise reduce their expenditures on outsourced discovery, research and development in light of current difficult conditions in credit markets and the economy in general, or for any other reason, our operations, financial condition and growth rate could be materially and adversely affected.  in the past, mergers, product withdrawal and liability lawsuits, and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry have also slowed decision-making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed drug development projects.  continuation or increases in these trends could have an adverse effect on our business.  in addition, numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies.  if future cost-containment efforts limit the profits that can be derived on new drugs, our clients might reduce their drug discovery and development spending, which could reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device industries generally and drug discovery and development more specifically are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes.  our competitors, clients and others might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete.  if competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to our technologies, services or products to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenue and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. we and our licensees are subject to numerous and complex government regulations which could result in delay and expense. governmental authorities in the u.s. and other countries heavily regulate the testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution, advertising and marketing of our proposed product candidates. none of our proprietary products under development has been approved for marketing in the u.s. before any products we develop are marketed, fda and comparable foreign agency approval must be obtained through an extensive clinical study and approval process.     17     the studies involved in the approval process are conducted in three phases.  in phase 1 studies, researchers assess safety or the most common acute adverse effects of a drug and examine the size of doses that patients can take safely without a high incidence of side effects. generally, 20 to 100 healthy volunteers or patients are studied in the phase 1 study for a period of several months. in phase 2 studies, researchers determine the drug’s efficacy with short-term safety by administering the drug to subjects who have the condition the drug is intended to treat, assess whether the drug favorably affects the condition, and begin to identify the correct dosage level. up to several hundred subjects may be studied in the phase 2 study for approximately 6 to 12 months, depending on the type of product tested. in phase 3 studies, researchers further assess efficacy and safety of the drug. several hundred to thousands of patients may be studied during the phase 3 studies for a period from 12 months to several years. upon completion of phase 3 studies, a new drug application is submitted to the fda or foreign governmental regulatory authority for review and approval. the failure to obtain requisite governmental approvals for our product candidates under development in a timely manner or at all would delay or preclude us and our licensees from marketing our product candidates or limit the commercial use of our product candidates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of on-going research, discovery and development activities or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities.   as a result of any such failure, we could be contractually required to perform repeat services at no further cost to our clients, but at a substantial cost to us.  the issuance of a notice from regulatory authorities based upon a finding of a material violation by us of applicable requirements could result in contractual liability to our clients and/or the termination of ongoing studies which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  furthermore, our reputation and prospects for future work could be materially and adversely diminished. because we intend that our product candidates will be sold and marketed outside the u.s., we and/or our licensees will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursements. these requirements vary widely from country to country. the failure to meet each foreign country’s requirements could delay the introduction of our proposed product candidates in the respective foreign country and limit our revenues from sales of our proposed product candidates in foreign markets. successful commercialization of our product candidates may depend on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party healthcare payers, such as government and private insurance plans. even if one or more products is successfully brought to market, reimbursement to consumers may not be available or sufficient to allow the realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development or to sell our product candidates on a competitive basis. in addition, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental controls. in the u.s., federal and state agencies have proposed similar governmental control and the u.s. congress has recently adopted regulatory reforms that affect companies engaged in the healthcare industry. pricing constraints on our product candidates in foreign markets and possibly in the u.s. could adversely affect our business and limit our revenues. we face uncertainty related to healthcare reform, pricing and reimbursement which could reduce our revenue. in 2009 and 2010, the u.s. congress adopted legislation regarding health insurance, which has been signed into law. as a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for healthcare in the united states, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. these structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of private payors and government programs, such as medicare, medicaid and state children’s health insurance program, creation of a government-sponsored healthcare insurance source, or some combination of both, as well as other changes. restructuring the coverage of medical care in the united states could impact the reimbursement for prescribed drugs, biopharmaceuticals, medical devices, or our product candidates. if reimbursement for our approved product candidates, if any, is substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. recently, there have been efforts in the u.s. congress to defund the health insurance program described above.  as a result of the political uncertainty surrounding the implementation of the health care legislation, it is unclear as to what laws, regulations, procedures and funding will be put into place in the near future.  such uncertainty may impact the reimbursement for certain prescribed drugs, biopharmaceuticals, medical devices, or our product candidates. as described above, if reimbursement for our approved product candidates, if any, is substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted.     18     sales of our product candidates, if approved for commercialization, will depend in part on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors such as government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other health care related organizations.  both the federal and state governments in the united states and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation affecting coverage and reimbursement policies, which are designed to contain or reduce the cost of health care. further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms are likely which could limit the prices that can be charged for the product candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, if commercialized, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations. adoption of our product candidates, if approved, by the medical community may be limited if third-party payors will not offer coverage. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for drugs, which in turn would negatively affect the price that we will be able to charge. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payors to any drug candidate we have in development. any denial of private or government payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for procedures performed using our drug candidates, if commercialized, could harm our business and reduce our revenue. risks related to owning our common stock our stock has previously been subject to delisting proceedings on nasdaq and could be subject to such proceedings in the future currently, our common stock trades on the nasdaq capital market.  we have previously received notifications from nasdaq informing us of certain listing deficiencies, including failure to satisfy the minimum bid price and the minimum stockholders’ equity.  although we have since cured these deficiencies, it is possible that we could fall out of compliance again in the future.  if we fail to maintain compliance with any listing requirements, we could be delisted and our stock would be considered a penny stock under regulations of the securities and exchange commission and would therefore be subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities. the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the common stock and your ability to sell our securities in the secondary market. in addition, if we fail to maintain our listing on nasdaq or any other united states securities exchange, quotation system, market or over-the-counter bulletin board, we will be subject to cash penalties under certain investor agreements to which we are a party until a listing is obtained. we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. although our stockholders may receive dividends if, as and when declared by our board of directors, we do not intend to declare dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. therefore, you should not purchase our common stock if you need immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment. we may issue additional shares of our capital stock that could dilute the value of your shares of common stock. we are authorized to issue 85,000,000 shares of our capital stock, consisting of 75,000,000 shares of our common stock and 10,000,000 shares of our preferred stock of which 1,000,000 are designated as series a junior participating preferred stock, 800 are designated as series b 8% cumulative convertible preferred stock and 600 are designated as series c 6% cumulative convertible preferred stock. in light of our possible future need for additional financing, we may issue additional shares of common stock at below current market prices or additional convertible securities that could dilute the earnings per share and book value of your shares of our common stock.  these issuances would dilute existing stockholders and could depress the value of our common stock. in addition to provisions providing for proportionate adjustments in the event of stock splits, stock dividends, reverse stock splits and similar events, certain outstanding warrants and convertible instruments currently representing the right to acquire 640,000 shares of common stock provide (with certain exceptions) for an adjustment of the exercise or conversion price if we issue shares of common stock at prices lower than the then exercise or conversion price or the then prevailing market price. this means that if we need to raise equity financing at a time when the market price for our common stock is lower than the exercise or conversion price, or if we need to provide a new equity investor with a discount from the then prevailing market price, then the exercise price will be reduced and the dilution to stockholders increased.     19     item 1b. unresolved