item 1a. risk factors  risks related to the company we expect to continue to require external financing to fund our operations, which may not be available. we expect to require external financing to fund our long-term operations. as of december 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $21.4 million. we believe we have sufficient cash reserves to fund our on-going operations through mid-2015, however, we expect to continue to have net cash outflows from operations in 2014 as we continue to support commercial launches of vitaros®, further develop our second generation vitaros® product and expend any costs related to the advancement of our pipeline assets. while we have historically generated modest revenues from our operations, we do not believe that revenues will be sufficient for the foreseeable future to fund our long-term ongoing operations, including the development and commercialization of our product candidates and general operating expenses, including legal, audit and public company listing fees. given our current lack of profitability and limited capital resources, we may not be able to fully execute all the elements of our strategic plan, including seeking additional market approvals and commercializing vitaros® and developing and implementing a partnering strategy for femprox®. if we are unable to accomplish these objectives, our business prospects would be diminished and we will likely be unable to achieve profitability. we have a history of operating losses and an accumulated deficit, and we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to achieve profitability in the future. we have not marketed or generated significant product sales revenues or royalty revenues in the u.s. or foreign countries from our products or product candidates, we have never been profitable and we have incurred an accumulated deficit of approximately 12 table of contents     $268.1 million from our inception through december 31, 2013. we have incurred these losses principally from costs incurred in funding the research, development and clinical testing of our drug candidates, from our general and administrative expenses and from our efforts to support commercialization of vitaros® by our partners. our ability to generate revenues and become profitable depends, among other things, on (1) the successful commercialization of vitaros® in major markets outside the united states, and (2) the successful development, approval and commercialization of our proposed nexact® product candidates including femprox®. if we are unable to accomplish these objectives, we may be unable to achieve profitability and would need to raise additional capital to sustain our operations. in markets where vitaros® is approved, we are substantially dependent on marketing partners to successfully commercialize vitaros®. in markets where vitaros® has received regulatory approval, including in canada and in europe through the dcp, we do not have or expect to have any sales or marketing infrastructure. accordingly, our operating results and long-term success is substantially dependent on the commercialization efforts of our marketing partners. consummation of new vitaros® and nexact® partnering arrangements is subject to the negotiation of complex contractual relationships and we may not be able to negotiate such agreements on a timely basis, if at all, or on terms acceptable to us. in jurisdictions where we commercialize our products with partners the amount of revenue we receive from product sales will be lower than if we commercialized directly, as we will be required to share the revenues with our partners. if our partners’ commercialization efforts for vitaros® are unsuccessful, we may realize little or no revenue from sales in such markets. we and our licensees depend upon third party manufacturers for our products vitaros® and femprox® and other products and product candidates, and for the raw materials, components, chemical supplies, and dispensers required for our finished products. we do not manufacture any of our products and product candidates including vitaros® and femprox®. as such, we are dependent on third party manufacturers for the supply of these products and product candidates. in particular, therapex has been our sole supplier of vitaros® and, although we are in the process of qualifying a second supplier, this supply line has not yet been validated and the process for validation can be costly and time consuming. the manufacturing process for our products is highly regulated and regulators may refuse to qualify new suppliers and/or terminate manufacturing at existing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. further, our commercial partners, such as abbott in canada, may require changes in the product specifications which could cause delays or additional costs to be incurred. the inability of our contract manufacturers to successfully produce commercial quantities of vitaros® with an acceptable shelf-life could delay or prevent a commercial launch in certain territories, which would negatively affect our potential future revenues. our third-party manufacturers and suppliers are subject to numerous regulations, including good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, fda regulations governing manufacturing processes and related activities and similar foreign regulations. our third-party manufacturers and suppliers are independent entities who are subject to their own operational and financial risks that are out of our control. if we or any of these third-party manufacturers or suppliers fail to perform as required or fail to comply with the regulations of the fda and other applicable governmental authorities, our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or continue our clinical trials would be adversely affected. also, the manufacturing processes of our manufacturing partners may be found to violate the proprietary rights of others, which could interfere with their ability to manufacture products on a timely and cost effective basis. in addition, we and our licensees are also dependent on third party manufacturers and suppliers of raw materials, components, chemical supplies for the active drugs in our products and those product candidates under development for the formulation and supply of our nexact® enhancers and finished products including dispensers that are essential in the production of our products vitaros®, femprox® and other products and product candidates. these raw materials, components, chemical supplies, finished products and dispensers must be supplied on a timely basis and at satisfactory quality levels. if our third party product manufacturers or suppliers of raw materials, components, chemical supplies, finished products and dispensers fail to produce quality products on time and in sufficient quantities or if we are unable to secure adequate alternative sources of supply for such materials, components, chemicals, finished products and dispensers, our results would suffer, as we or our licensees would encounter costs and delays in re-validating new third party suppliers. 13 table of contents     our financial prospects depend in part on the ability of our contract manufacturer and our suppliers to produce and deliver vitaros® in canada, europe and other countries within the approved product specifications. if vitaros® is not able to be manufactured and provided to customers within the desired specifications, the expected sales by our partners may not be possible and our financial results would be negatively impacted. we are dependent upon our suppliers and manufacturers of active drug substance, proprietary excipient and other components used in vitaros® to produce and deliver these materials for vitaros® manufacturing according to the approved quality specifications filed with the regulatory authorities and according to gmp. if these suppliers or manufacturers are not able to supply these materials in a consistent and timely manner or fail to meet the regulatory requirements to include vitaros® product specifications, then vitaros® would not be able to be manufactured. similarly, we are dependent upon a contract manufacturer to produce vitaros® dosage form according to the approved specifications for each territory. if the manufacturer is not able to make vitaros® for any reason, such as an unexpected plant shutdown, failure of certain inspections by regulatory authorities, equipment failure or inability to meet approved regulatory specifications for vitaros®, then vitaros® would not be able to be delivered to our partners. while we have no reason to believe that our contract manufacturers will not be able to successfully manufacture according to the requirements, any unforeseen delay or inability to manufacture could significantly impact our financial results. the product specifications for vitaros®, and other pharmaceutical products, are governed by the applicable jurisdiction’s regulatory authorities and those specifications may affect the ability of our partners to manufacture a product with a desired product shelf-life, prescribing information or other product characteristics that impact their marketing goals. such product specifications are specific to each individual jurisdiction’s market-approval directives and are generally not applicable to those product specifications approved by other countries regulatory authorities. the manufacturing specifications for producing vitaros® in canada affect the expected shelf-life that can be achieved for the product. abbott, our marketing partner in canada, is working with their contract manufacturer to optimize the shelf-life period for the cold-chain product prior to launch. we understand that abbott is considering seeking potential changes in the approved product specifications in order to increase the shelf-life and corresponding commercial potential of the product. if any of our partners are unable to achieve the desired product shelf life within approved specifications, our financial results could be negatively impacted. pre-clinical and clinical trials are inherently unpredictable. if we or our partners do not successfully conduct the clinical trials or gain regulatory approval, we or our partners may be unable to market our product candidates. through pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, our product candidates, such as femprox®, must be demonstrated to be safe and effective for their indicated uses. results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of, or allow for, prediction of results in later-stage testing. many of the pre-clinical studies that we have conducted are in animals with “models” of human disease states. although these tests are widely used as screening mechanisms for drug candidates before being advanced to human clinical studies, results in animal studies are less reliable predictors of safety and efficacy than results of human clinical studies. future clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates or may not result in regulatory approval to market our product candidates. commercial sales in any territory cannot begin until approval is received from the applicable regulatory authorities, including the fda in the u.s. we have sold all rights to vitaros® for ed to actavis for sales into the u.s. actavis has not been successful in obtaining approval for vitaros® in the u.s. and any inability to have the drug approved by the fda for ed could have a negative effect on our prospects and the company’s stock price. if we are unable to adequately establish, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights, we may incur substantial litigation costs and may be unable to generate significant product revenue. protection of the intellectual property for our products and product candidates is of material importance to our business in the u.s. and other countries. we have sought and will continue to seek proprietary protection for our product candidates to attempt to prevent others from commercializing equivalent products. our success may depend on our ability to (1) obtain effective patent protection within the u.s. and internationally for our proprietary technologies and products, (2) defend patents we own, (3) preserve our trade secrets and (4) operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. in addition, we have agreed to indemnify certain of our partners for certain liabilities with respect to the defense, protection and/or validity of our patents and would also be required to incur costs or forgo revenue if it is necessary for our partners to acquire third party patent licenses in order for them to exercise the licenses acquired from us. 14 table of contents     while we have obtained patents and have many patent applications pending, the extent of effective patent protection in the u.s. and other countries is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. no consistent policy addresses the breadth of claims allowed in, or the degree of protection afforded under, patents of medical and pharmaceutical companies. patents we currently own or may obtain might not be sufficiently broad enough to protect us against competitors with similar technology. any of our patents could be invalidated or circumvented. furthermore, holders of competing patents could allege that our activities infringe on their rights and could potentially prevail in litigation against us. we have also sold certain patents in transactions where we have licensed out rights to our drug candidates. in certain of these transactions, we have agreed to indemnify the purchaser from third party patent claims, which could expose us to potentially significant damages for patents that we no longer own. any litigation could result in substantial cost to us and would divert management’s attention, which may harm our business. in addition, our efforts to protect or defend our proprietary rights may not be successful or, even if successful, may result in substantial cost to us. we face a high degree of competition. we are engaged in a highly competitive industry. we and our licensees compete against many companies and research institutions that research, develop and market products in areas similar to those in which we operate. for example, viagra®(pfizer), cialis®(lilly), levitra®(glaxo smith kline) are currently approved for treatment of ed. these and other competitors may have specific expertise and development technologies that are better than ours and many of these competitors, which include large pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development capabilities and substantially greater experience than we do. accordingly, our competitors may successfully develop competing products. we are also competing with other companies and their products with respect to manufacturing efficiencies and marketing capabilities, areas where we have limited or no direct experience. a number of other companies have attempted to gain approval in the u.s. and foreign countries for products similar to femprox® for indications similar to female sexual interest and arousal disorder and have not been successful. there have been numerous other companies that have tried to gain regulatory approval for a product in the u.s. or in any other country to treat female sexual interest and arousal disorder (“fsiad”). to date, to the company’s knowledge, no such products have been approved by the fda or any other regulatory agency and no products are currently on the market for this disorder. a number of companies such as biosante for its drug libigel®, proctor & gamble for its drug intrinsa® and boehringer ingelheim for its drug girosa®, have invested substantial resources in pre-clinical and clinical development on such products and have failed to have them approved by the fda or any other regulatory agency. there is no guarantee that the company’s product candidate, femprox®, will be approved by the fda or any other regulatory agency or that we will realize any revenues from sales of or for the partnering agreements for femprox®. our pharmaceutical expenditures may not result in commercially successful products. we cannot be sure our business expenditures will result in the successful acquisition, development or launch of products that will prove to be commercially successful or will improve the long-term profitability of our business. if such business expenditures do not result in successful acquisition, development or launch of commercially successful brand products, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. business development activity involves numerous risks, including the risks that we may be unable to integrate an acquired business successfully and that we may assume liabilities that could adversely affect us. in order to augment our product pipeline or otherwise strengthen our business, we may decide to acquire or license additional businesses, products and technologies. acquisitions could require us to raise significant capital and involve many risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • difficulties in achieving identified financial revenue synergies, growth opportunities, operating synergies and cost savings; • difficulties in assimilating the personnel, operations and products of an acquired company, and the potential loss of key employees; • difficulties in consolidating information technology platforms, business applications and corporate infrastructure; • difficulties in integrating our corporate culture with local customs and cultures; 15 table of contents     • possible overlap between our products or customers and those of an acquired entity that may create conflicts in relationships or other commitments detrimental to the integrated businesses; • our inability to achieve expected revenues and gross margins for any products we may acquire; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • risks and challenges of entering or operating in markets in which we have limited or no prior experience, including the unanticipated effects of export controls, exchange rate fluctuations, foreign legal and regulatory requirements, and foreign political and economic conditions; and • difficulties in reorganizing, winding-down or liquidating operations if not successful in addition, foreign acquisitions involve numerous risks, including those related to changes in local laws and market conditions and due to the absence of policies and procedures sufficient to assure compliance by a foreign entity with u.s. regulatory and legal requirements. business development activities require significant transaction costs, including substantial fees for investment bankers, attorneys, and accountants. any acquisition could result in our assumption of material unknown and/or unexpected liabilities. we also cannot assure you that we will achieve any cost savings or synergies relating to recent or future acquisitions. additionally, in any acquisition agreement, the negotiated representations, warranties and agreements of the selling parties may not entirely protect us, and liabilities resulting from any breaches could exceed negotiated indemnity limitations. these factors could impair our growth and ability to compete; divert resources from other potentially more profitable areas; or otherwise cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. the financial statements of acquired companies, or those that may be acquired in the future, are prepared by management of such companies and are not independently verified by our management. in addition, any pro forma financial statements prepared by us to give effect to such acquisitions may not accurately reflect the results of operations of such companies that would have been achieved had the acquisition of such entities been completed at the beginning of the applicable periods. we may be subject to product liability and similar claims, which may lead to a significant financial loss if our insurance coverage is inadequate. we are exposed to potential product liability risks inherent in the development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human therapeutic products. product liability insurance for the pharmaceutical industry is extremely expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. although we maintain various types of insurance, we have no guarantee that the coverage limits of such insurance policies will be adequate. if liability claims were made against us, it is possible that our insurance carriers may deny, or attempt to deny, coverage in certain instances. a successful claim against us if we are uninsured, or which is in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, could have a material adverse effect upon us and on our financial condition. our business and operations would be adversely impacted in the event of a failure or security breach of our information technology infrastructure. we rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. we are constantly updating our information technology infrastructure. any failure to manage, expand and update our information technology infrastructure or any failure in the operation of this infrastructure could harm our business. despite our implementation of security measures, our systems may be vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, and other similar disruptions. our business is also potentially vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by third parties as well as employees. any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. to the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could harm our business. in addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. if we fail to attract and retain senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully operate our business. our success depends, in part, on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with healthcare providers, clinicians and scientists. we are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff. although we have employment agreements with five of 16 table of contents     our executives, these agreements are generally terminable at will at any time, and, therefore, we may not be able to retain their services as expected. the loss of services of one or more members of our senior management and scientific staff could delay or prevent us from successfully operating our business. competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals field is intense, particularly in the san diego, california area, where our offices are located. we may need to hire additional personnel to support commercial efforts for vitaros®. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business relationships and to establish new business relationships, particularly in the drug development sector, also depends on our ability to subcontract and retain scientific staff with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug development technologies. from time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings, which could expose us to significant liabilities. we, as well as certain of our officers and distributors, are subject, from time to time, to a number of legal proceedings, including those described in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and these claims and disputes may result in significant legal fees and expenses and could divert management’s time and other resources. if we are unable to successfully defend or settle any claims asserted against us, we could be liable for damages and be required to alter or cease certain of our business practices or product lines. any of these outcomes could cause our business, financial performance and cash position to be negatively impacted. there is no guarantee of a successful result in any of these lawsuits, either in defending these claims or in pursuing counterclaims. management’s determination that a material weakness exists in our internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse impact on our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements. the sarbanes-oxley act requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. among other things, we must perform systems and processes evaluation testing. we must also conduct an assessment of our internal controls to allow management to report on, and our independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. our management concluded that a material weakness existed in our internal control over financial reporting as of the year ended december 31, 2012 and continued to exist as of the year ended december 2013. as a result of this material weakness, management also determined that our disclosure controls and procedures were not fully effective. in connection with our compliance and remediation efforts, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur or expend, substantial accounting and other expenses and significant management time and resources. our future assessment, or the future assessment by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal additional material weaknesses in our internal controls. if not remediated, a material weakness, and any future potential material weaknesses identified by management could result in future errors in our financial statements or in documents we file with the sec. industry risks instability and volatility in the financial markets in the global economy are likely to have a negative impact on our ability to raise necessary funds. during the past several years, there has been substantial volatility in financial markets due in part to the global economic environment. in addition, there has been substantial uncertainty in the capital markets and access to financing is uncertain. these conditions are likely to have an adverse effect on our industry, licensing partners and business, including our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we expect to need to raise capital through equity sales and/or incur indebtedness, if available, to finance operations. however, continued volatility in the capital markets and may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through sales of capital stock or through borrowings, in the public or private markets on terms that we believe to be reasonable, if at all. changes in trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including difficult market conditions, could adversely affect our operating results. industry trends and economic and political factors that affect pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies also affect our business. in the past, mergers, product withdrawal, liability lawsuits and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry have slowed decision-making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed drug development projects. continuation or increases in these trends could have an adverse effect on our business.  17 table of contents     the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device industries generally and drug discovery and development more specifically are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. our competitors might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete. if competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to our technologies, services or products to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenue and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. we and our licensees are subject to numerous and complex government regulations which could result in delay and expense. governmental authorities in the u.s. and other countries heavily regulate the testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution, advertising and marketing of our proposed product candidates. none of our proprietary products under development have been approved for marketing in the u.s. before any products we develop are marketed, fda and comparable foreign agency approval must be obtained through an extensive clinical study and approval process. the failure to obtain requisite governmental approvals for our product candidates under development in a timely manner or at all would delay or preclude us and our licensees from marketing our product candidates or limit the commercial use of our product candidates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. because we intend that our product candidates will also be sold and marketed outside the u.s., we and/or our licensees will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursements. these requirements vary widely from country to country. the failure to meet each foreign country’s requirements could delay the introduction of our proposed product candidates in the respective foreign country and limit our revenues from sales of our proposed product candidates in foreign markets. successful commercialization of our product candidates may depend on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party healthcare payers, such as government and private insurance plans. even as vitaros® is commercialized by our marketing partners, reimbursement to consumers may not be available or sufficient to allow the realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development or to sell our product candidates on a competitive basis. in addition, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental controls. in the u.s., federal and state agencies have proposed similar governmental control and the u.s. congress has recently adopted regulatory reforms that affect companies engaged in the healthcare industry. pricing constraints on our product candidates in foreign markets and possibly in the u.s. could adversely affect our business and limit our revenues. we face uncertainty related to healthcare reform, pricing and reimbursement, which could reduce our revenue. in the u.s., president obama signed in march 2010 the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act (collectively, “ppaca”). as a result of ppaca, substantial changes could be made to the current healthcare system, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. these structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of private payers and government programs, such as medicare, medicaid and state children’s health insurance program, creation of a government-sponsored healthcare insurance source, or some combination of both, as well as other changes. restructuring the coverage of medical care in the united states could impact the reimbursement for prescribed drugs, biopharmaceuticals, medical devices or our product candidates. if reimbursement for our products is substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. further, numerous foreign governments are also undertaking efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies. sales of vitaros® and other product candidates, if approved, will depend in part on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers such as u.s. and foreign government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other health care related organizations. both the federal and state governments in the united states and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation affecting coverage and reimbursement policies, which are designed to contain or reduce the cost of health care. further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms are likely that could limit the prices that can be charged for the product candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our products and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations. adoption by the medical community of vitaros® and other product candidates, if approved, may be limited if third-party payers will not offer coverage. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for drugs, which in turn would negatively 18 table of contents     affect the price that we will be able to charge. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payers to any drug candidate we have in development. any denial of private or government payer coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our products could harm our business and reduce our revenue. risks related to owning our common stock we are vulnerable to volatile stock market conditions. the market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, have been highly volatile. the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. in addition, future announcements, such as the results of testing and clinical trials, the status of our relationships with third-party collaborators, technological innovations or new therapeutic products, governmental regulation, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, litigation or public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others and general market conditions concerning us, our competitors or other biopharmaceutical companies, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have been more likely to initiate securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. if any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. the lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. although our stockholders may receive dividends if, as and when declared by our board of directors, we do not intend to declare dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. therefore, you should not purchase our common stock if you need immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment. we may issue additional shares of our capital stock that could dilute the value of your shares of common stock. we are authorized to issue 85,000,000 shares of our capital stock, consisting of 75,000,000 shares of our common stock and 10,000,000 shares of our preferred stock. pursuant to an “at-the-market” (“atm”) offering facility entered into in december 2011 and amended in april 2013, we may, from time to time, sell up to $20.0 million worth of our common stock, of which $17.1 million remained available as of december 31, 2013. in light of our future capital needs, we may also issue additional shares of common stock at below current market prices or additional convertible securities that could dilute the earnings per share and book value of your shares of our common stock. these issuances would dilute existing stockholders and could depress the value of our common stock. in addition to provisions providing for proportionate adjustments in the event of stock splits, stock dividends, reverse stock splits and similar events, the outstanding convertible debt instrument which currently representing the right to potentially acquire approximately one million shares of common stock provide (with certain exceptions) for an adjustment of the exercise or conversion price if we issue shares of common stock at prices lower than the then exercise or conversion price or the then prevailing market price. this means that if we need to raise equity financing at a time when the market price for our common stock is lower than the exercise or conversion price, or if we need to provide a new equity investor with a discount from the then prevailing market price, then the exercise price will be reduced and the dilution to stockholders increased. item 1b. unresolved