item 1a. risk factors please carefully consider the following risk factors. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. in addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. we face intense competition our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we have many competitors in different industries, including retail, e-commerce services, digital content and electronic devices, and web and infrastructure computing services. some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and/or greater brand recognition. they may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources to technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. competition may intensify as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances and established companies in other market segments expand to become competitive with our business. in addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, digital content, and electronic devices, may increase our competition. the internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, and increased competition may reduce our sales and profits. our expansion places a significant strain on our management, operational, financial, and other resources we are rapidly and significantly expanding our global operations, including increasing our product and service offerings and scaling our infrastructure to support our retail and services businesses. this expansion increases the complexity of our business and places significant strain on our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. we may not be able to manage growth effectively, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. our expansion into new products, services, technologies, and geographic regions subjects us to additional business, legal, financial, and competitive risks we may have limited or no experience in our newer market segments, and our customers may not adopt our new offerings. these offerings may present new and difficult technology challenges, and we may be subject to claims if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other quality issues. in addition, profitability, if any, in our newer activities may be lower than in our older activities, and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them. if any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. we may experience significant fluctuations in our operating results and growth rate we may not be able to accurately forecast our growth rate. we base our expense levels and investment plans on sales estimates. a significant portion of our expenses and investments is fixed, and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our sales are less than expected. our revenue growth may not be sustainable, and our percentage growth rates may decrease. our revenue and operating profit growth depends on the continued growth of demand for the products and services offered by us or our sellers, and our business is affected by general economic and business conditions worldwide. a softening of demand, whether caused by changes in customer preferences or a weakening of the u.s. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or growth. our sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including due to risks described elsewhere in this section and the following: • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers’ demands; • our ability to retain and expand our network of sellers; • our ability to offer products on favorable terms, manage inventory, and fulfill orders; • the introduction of competitive websites, products, services, price decreases, or improvements; • changes in usage or adoption rates of the internet, e-commerce, electronic devices, and web services, including outside the u.s.; • timing, effectiveness, and costs of expansion and upgrades of our systems and infrastructure; 6 table of contents • the success of our geographic, service, and product line expansions; • the extent to which we finance, and the terms of any such financing for, our current operations and future growth; • the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, which may include significant monetary damages or injunctive relief and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results; • variations in the mix of products and services we sell; • variations in our level of merchandise and vendor returns; • the extent to which we offer free shipping, continue to reduce prices worldwide, and provide additional benefits to our customers; • the extent to which we invest in technology and content, fulfillment, and other expense categories; • increases in the prices of fuel and gasoline, as well as increases in the prices of other energy products and commodities like paper and packing supplies; • the extent to which our equity-method investees record significant operating and non-operating items; • the extent to which operators of the networks between our customers and our websites successfully charge fees to grant our customers unimpaired and unconstrained access to our online services; • our ability to collect amounts owed to us when they become due; • the extent to which use of our services is affected by spyware, viruses, phishing and other spam emails, denial of service attacks, data theft, computer intrusions, outages, and similar events; and • terrorist attacks and armed hostilities. we may not be successful in our efforts to expand into international market segments our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits, and we plan to further expand internationally. in certain international market segments, we have relatively little operating experience and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed. it is costly to establish, develop, and maintain international operations and websites, and promote our brand internationally. our international operations may not be profitable on a sustained basis. in addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • local economic and political conditions; • government regulation of e-commerce and other services, electronic devices, and competition, and restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs), nationalization, and restrictions on foreign ownership; • restrictions on sales or distribution of certain products or services and uncertainty regarding liability for products, services, and content, including uncertainty as a result of less internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack of legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the physical and digital distribution of media products and enforcement of intellectual property rights; • business licensing or certification requirements, such as for imports, exports, web services, and electronic devices; • limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; • limited fulfillment and technology infrastructure; • shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact on cash flow; • laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, privacy, network security, encryption, payments, and restrictions on pricing or discounts; • lower levels of use of the internet; • lower levels of consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared to the u.s.; • lower levels of credit card usage and increased payment risk; • difficulty in staffing, developing, and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; 7 table of contents • different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils and labor unions; • laws and policies of the u.s. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, and taxes; and • geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. as international e-commerce and other online and web services grow, competition will intensify. local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer, as well as their more established local brand names. we may not be able to hire, train, retain, and manage required personnel, which may limit our international growth. the people’s republic of china (“prc”) regulates amazon’s and its affiliates’ businesses and operations in the prc through regulations and license requirements restricting (i) foreign investment in the internet, it infrastructure, retail, delivery, and other sectors, (ii) internet content, and (iii) the sale of media and other products and services. for example, in order to meet local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements, www.amazon.cn is operated by prc companies that are indirectly owned, either wholly or partially, by prc nationals. although we believe these structures comply with existing prc laws, they involve unique risks. there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of prc laws and regulations, and it is possible that the prc government will ultimately take a view contrary to ours. if our chinese business interests were found to be in violation of any existing or future prc laws or regulations or if interpretations of those laws and regulations were to change, the business could be subject to fines and other financial penalties, have licenses revoked, or be forced to shut down entirely. in addition, the chinese businesses and operations may be unable to continue to operate if we or our affiliates are unable to access sufficient funding or enforce contractual relationships with respect to management and control of such businesses. if we do not successfully optimize and operate our fulfillment centers, our business could be harmed if we do not adequately predict customer demand or otherwise optimize and operate our fulfillment centers successfully, it could result in excess or insufficient inventory or fulfillment capacity, result in increased costs, impairment charges, or both, or harm our business in other ways. a failure to optimize inventory will increase our net shipping cost by requiring long-zone or partial shipments. orders from several of our websites are fulfilled primarily from a single location, and we have only a limited ability to reroute orders to third parties for drop-shipping. we and our co-sourcers may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers. as we continue to add fulfillment and warehouse capability or add new businesses with different fulfillment requirements, our fulfillment network becomes increasingly complex and operating it becomes more challenging. if the other businesses on whose behalf we perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product to our fulfillment centers in excess of forecasts, we may be unable to secure sufficient storage space and may be unable to optimize our fulfillment centers. there can be no assurance that we will be able to operate our network effectively. we rely on a limited number of shipping companies to deliver inventory to us and completed orders to our customers. if we are not able to negotiate acceptable terms with these companies or they experience performance problems or other difficulties, it could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. in addition, our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship completed orders to customers also may be negatively affected by inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of god, and similar factors. third parties either drop-ship or otherwise fulfill an increasing portion of our customers’ orders, and we are increasingly reliant on the reliability, quality, and future procurement of their services. under some of our commercial agreements, we maintain the inventory of other companies, thereby increasing the complexity of tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment centers. our failure to properly handle such inventory or the inability of these other companies to accurately forecast product demand would result in unexpected costs and other harm to our business and reputation. the seasonality of our business places increased strain on our operations we expect a disproportionate amount of our net sales to occur during our fourth quarter. if we do not stock or restock popular products in sufficient amounts such that we fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. if we overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs, which could reduce profitability. we may experience an increase in our net shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. if too many customers access our websites within a short period of time due to increased holiday demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we sell and the attractiveness of our products and services. in addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer 8 table of contents service co-sourcers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. we also face risks described elsewhere in this item 1a relating to fulfillment center optimization and inventory. we generally have payment terms with our retail vendors that extend beyond the amount of time necessary to collect proceeds from our consumer customers. as a result of holiday sales, as of december 31 of each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances typically reach their highest level (other than as a result of cash flows provided by or used in investing and financing activities). this operating cycle results in a corresponding increase in accounts payable as of december 31. our accounts payable balance generally declines during the first three months of the year, resulting in a corresponding decline in our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances. our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in making, integrating, and maintaining commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and other business relationships we provide e-commerce and other services to businesses through commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and business relationships. under these agreements, we provide web services, technology, fulfillment, computing, digital storage, and other services, as well as enable sellers to offer products or services through our websites. these arrangements are complex and require substantial infrastructure capacity, personnel, and other resource commitments, which may limit the amount of business we can service. we may not be able to implement, maintain, and develop the components of these commercial relationships, which may include web services, fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, hardware, content, and third-party software, and engaging third parties to perform services. the amount of compensation we receive under certain of our commercial agreements is partially dependent on the volume of the other company’s sales. therefore, if the other company’s offering is not successful, the compensation we receive may be lower than expected or the agreement may be terminated. moreover, we may not be able to enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances on favorable terms. we also may be subject to claims from businesses to which we provide these services if we are unsuccessful in implementing, maintaining, or developing these services. as our agreements terminate, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. we may in the future enter into amendments on less favorable terms or encounter parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations to us, which could adversely affect our operating results. our present and future e-commerce services agreements, other commercial agreements, and strategic alliances create additional risks such as: • disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; • impairment of other relationships; • variability in revenue and income from entering into, amending, or terminating such agreements or relationships; and • difficulty integrating under the commercial agreements. our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in making, integrating, and maintaining acquisitions and investments we have acquired and invested in a number of companies, and we may acquire or invest in or enter into joint ventures with additional companies. these transactions create risks such as: • disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; • problems retaining key personnel; • additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquired or in which we invested; • the potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill, including as a result of acquisitions; • the potential impairment of customer and other relationships of the company we acquired or in which we invested or our own customers as a result of any integration of operations; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our offerings and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • the difficulty of integrating a new company’s accounting, financial reporting, management, information and information security, human resource, and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; 9 table of contents • for investments in which an investee’s financial performance is incorporated into our financial results, either in full or in part, the dependence on the investee’s accounting, financial reporting, and similar systems, controls, and processes; • the difficulty of implementing at companies we acquire the controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for a larger public company; • potential unknown liabilities associated with a company we acquire or in which we invest; and • for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. as a result of future acquisitions or mergers, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. in addition, valuations supporting our acquisitions and strategic investments could change rapidly given the current global economic climate. we could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments or other-than-temporary declines in fair value which could adversely impact our financial results. we have foreign exchange risk the results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our international websites and product and service offerings are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. upon translation, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. as we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has increased. we also hold cash equivalents and/or marketable securities primarily in euros, japanese yen, british pounds, and chinese yuan. if the u.s. dollar strengthens compared to these currencies, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, when translated, may be materially less than expected and vice versa. the loss of key senior management personnel could negatively affect our business we depend on our senior management and other key personnel, particularly jeffrey p. bezos, our president, ceo, and chairman. we do not have “key person” life insurance policies. the loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. we could be harmed by data loss or other security breaches as a result of our services being web-based and the fact that we process, store, and transmit large amounts of data, including personal information, for our customers, failure to prevent or mitigate data loss or other security breaches, including breaches of our vendors’ technology and systems, could expose us or our customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information, adversely affect our operating results, result in litigation or potential liability for us, and otherwise harm our business. we use third party technology and systems for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions. some subsidiaries had past security breaches, and, although they did not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, there can be no assurance of a similar result in the future. although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, including systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security breach at a third party vendor, such measures cannot provide absolute security. we face risks related to system interruption and lack of redundancy we experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our websites and services unavailable or slow to respond and prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing services to third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness of our products and services. if we are unable to continually add software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure, and take other steps to improve the efficiency of our systems, it could cause system interruptions or delays and adversely affect our operating results. our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of god, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar events or disruptions. any of these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders and providing services, which could make our product and service offerings less attractive and subject us to liability. our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient. in addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage to compensate for any related losses. any of these events could damage our reputation and be expensive to remedy. 10 table of contents we face significant inventory risk in addition to risks described elsewhere in this item 1a relating to fulfillment center and inventory optimization by us and third parties, we are exposed to significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and pricing, defective merchandise, changes in consumer demand and consumer spending patterns, changes in consumer tastes with respect to our products, and other factors. we endeavor to accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or understocking products we manufacture and/or sell. demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory or components are ordered and the date of sale. in addition, when we begin selling or manufacturing a new product, it may be difficult to establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product or component selection, and accurately forecast demand. the acquisition of certain types of inventory or components may require significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not be returnable. we carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and we may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties we regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, and others to protect our proprietary rights. effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available. we also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do business. furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. the protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. we also cannot be certain that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property rights. other parties also may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights. we have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of third parties. such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us, or the payment of damages. we may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. in addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own. these risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. our digital content offerings depend in part on effective digital rights management technology to control access to digital content. if the digital rights management technology that we use is compromised or otherwise malfunctions, we could be subject to claims, and content providers may be unwilling to include their content in our service. we have a rapidly evolving business model and our stock price is highly volatile we have a rapidly evolving business model. the trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly in response to, among other risks, the risks described elsewhere in this item 1a, as well as: • changes in interest rates; • conditions or trends in the internet and the industry segments we operate in; • quarterly variations in operating results; • fluctuations in the stock market in general and market prices for internet-related companies in particular; • changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; 11 table of contents • changes in the valuation methodology of, or performance by, other e-commerce or technology companies; and • transactions in our common stock by major investors and certain analyst reports, news, and speculation. volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our business and financing opportunities and force us to increase our cash compensation to employees or grant larger stock awards than we have historically, which could hurt our operating results or reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, or both. government regulation is evolving and unfavorable changes could harm our business we are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the internet, e-commerce, electronic devices, and other services. existing and future laws and regulations may impede our growth. these regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, electronic device certification, electronic waste, energy consumption, environmental regulation, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, consumer protection, web services, the provision of online payment services, unencumbered internet access to our services, the design and operation of websites, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. it is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, libel, and personal privacy apply to the internet, e-commerce, digital content, and web services. jurisdictions may regulate consumer-to-consumer online businesses, including certain aspects of our seller programs. unfavorable regulations and laws could diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. we do not collect sales or consumption taxes in some jurisdictions u.s. supreme court decisions restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales taxes with respect to remote sales. however, an increasing number of states have considered or adopted laws or administrative practices that attempt to impose obligations on out-of-state retailers to collect taxes on their behalf. we support a federal law that would allow states to require sales tax collection under a nationwide system. more than half of our revenue is already earned in jurisdictions where we collect sales tax or its equivalent. a successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries requiring us to collect taxes where we do not do so could result in substantial tax liabilities, including for past sales, as well as penalties and interest. we could be subject to additional income tax liabilities we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. during the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, by entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, by acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, including fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. the united states, many countries in the european union, and a number of other countries are actively considering changes in this regard. in addition, we are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. developments in an audit, litigation, or the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods. our supplier relationships subject us to a number of risks we have significant suppliers, including licensors, and in some cases, limited or single-sources of supply, that are important to our sourcing, services, manufacturing, and any related ongoing servicing of merchandise and content. we do not have long-term arrangements with most of our suppliers to guarantee availability of merchandise, content, components, or services, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. if our current suppliers were to stop selling or licensing merchandise, content, components, or services to us on acceptable terms, or delay delivery, including as a result of one or more supplier bankruptcies due to poor economic conditions, as a result of natural disasters, or for other reasons, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. 12 table of contents we may be subject to risks related to government contracts and related procurement regulations our contracts with u.s., as well as state, local, and foreign, government entities are subject to various procurement regulations and other requirements relating to their formation, administration, and performance. we may be subject to audits and investigations relating to our government contracts, and any violations could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contract, refunding or suspending of payments, forfeiture of profits, payment of fines, and suspension or debarment from future government business. in addition, such contracts may provide for termination by the government at any time, without cause. we may be subject to product liability claims if people or property are harmed by the products we sell some of the products we sell or manufacture may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or environmental or property damage, and may require product recalls or other actions. certain third parties also sell products using our e-commerce platform that may increase our exposure to product liability claims, such as if these sellers do not have sufficient protection from such claims. although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. in addition, some of our agreements with our vendors and sellers do not indemnify us from product liability. we are subject to payments-related risks we accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, credit accounts (including promotional financing), gift cards, direct debit from a customer’s bank account, consumer invoicing, physical bank check, and payment upon delivery. for existing and future payment options we offer to our customers, we may become subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements, and fraud. for certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. we rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and promotional financing, and it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. we are also subject to payment card association operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. if we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, or if our data security systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card issuing banks’ costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees, and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we also offer co-branded credit card programs, which could adversely affect our operating results if terminated. in addition, we provide regulated services in certain jurisdictions because we enable customers to keep account balances with us and transfer money to third parties, and because we provide services to third parties to facilitate payments on their behalf. in these jurisdictions, we may be subject to requirements for licensing, regulatory inspection, bonding and capital maintenance, the use, handling, and segregation of transferred funds, consumer disclosures, and authentication. we are also subject to or voluntarily comply with a number of other laws and regulations relating to payments, money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security, and electronic fund transfers. if we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to additional requirements and civil and criminal penalties, or forced to cease providing certain services. we could be liable for fraudulent or unlawful activities of sellers the law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services is currently unsettled. in addition, governmental agencies could require changes in the way this business is conducted. under our seller programs, we may be unable to prevent sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently or otherwise, when buyers never receive the products they ordered or when the products received are materially different from the sellers’ descriptions. under our a2z guarantee, we reimburse buyers for payments up to certain limits in these situations, and as our marketplace seller sales grow, the cost of this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. we also may be unable to prevent sellers on our sites or through other seller sites from selling unlawful goods, selling goods in an unlawful manner, or violating the proprietary rights of others, and could face civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities by our sellers. item 1b. unresolved