item 1a. risk factors there are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our business that could adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition. set forth below are descriptions of those risks and uncertainties that we currently believe to be material, but the risks and uncertainties described are not the only risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. see the discussion under “forward-looking statements” in item 7. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, in this annual report on form 10-k. risks associated with our business      cyclical demand for products. the cyclical nature of the industries in which our customers operate causes demand for our products to be cyclical, creating potential uncertainty regarding future profitability. various changes in general economic conditions may affect the industries in which our customers operate. these changes could include decreases in the rate of consumption or use of our customers’ products due to economic downturns. other factors that may cause fluctuation in our customers’ positions are changes in market demand, lower overall pricing due to domestic and international overcapacity, currency fluctuations, lower priced imports and increases in use or decreases in prices of substitute materials. as a result of these factors, our profitability has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuation.      worldwide economic conditions deteriorated significantly in the recent past and could remain weak in the future. these conditions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on demand for our customers’ products and, in turn, on demand for our products. if these conditions persist or worsen, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.      product pricing. from time-to-time, reduced demand, intense competition and excess manufacturing capacity have resulted in reduced prices, excluding raw material surcharges, for many of our products. these factors have had and may have an adverse impact on our revenues, operating results and financial condition.      although inflationary trends in recent years have been moderate, during most of the same period certain critical raw material costs, such as nickel, titanium sponge, chromium, and molybdenum and scrap containing iron, nickel, titanium, chromium, and molybdenum have been volatile and at historically high levels. while we have been able to mitigate some of the adverse impact of rising raw material costs through raw material surcharges or indices to customers, rapid increases in raw material costs may adversely affect our results of operations.      we change prices on certain of our products from time-to-time. the ability to implement price increases is dependent on market conditions, economic factors, raw material costs and availability, competitive factors, operating costs and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. the benefits of any price increases may be delayed due to long manufacturing lead times and the terms of existing contracts.      risks associated with commercial aerospace. a significant portion of the sales of our high performance metals segment represents products sold to customers in the commercial aerospace industry. the commercial aerospace industry has historically been cyclical due to factors both external and internal to the airline industry. these factors include general economic conditions, airline profitability, consumer demand for air travel, varying fuel and labor costs, price competition, and international and domestic political conditions such as military conflict and the threat of terrorism. the length and degree of cyclical fluctuation are influenced by these factors and therefore are difficult to predict with certainty. demand for our products in this segment is subject to these cyclical trends. for example, the average price per pound for our titanium mill products was $11.89 for the period 2002 through 2004, $22.75 in 2005, $33.83 in 2006, $30.14 in 2007, $25.60 in 2008, $20.92 in 2009 and $19.37 in 2010, and the average price per pound for our nickel-based and specialty alloys was $7.19 for the period 2002 through 2004, $11.25 in 2005, $14.35 in 2006, $19.16 in 2007, $18.14 in 2008, $14.43 in 2009 and $14.03 in 2010. a downturn in the commercial aerospace industry has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on the prices at which we are able to sell these and other products, and our results of operations, business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 9 table of contents      risks associated with strategic capital projects. from time-to-time, we undertake strategic capital projects in order to enhance, expand and/or upgrade our facilities and operational capabilities. for instance, over the past four years we have undertaken major expansions of our titanium and premium-melt nickel-based alloy, superalloy and specialty alloy production capabilities, and commenced construction of a new advanced specialty metals hot rolling and processing facility. our ability to achieve the anticipated increased revenues or otherwise realize acceptable returns on these investments or other strategic capital projects that we may undertake is subject to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control, including a variety of market, operational, permitting, and labor related factors. in addition, the cost to implement any given strategic capital project ultimately may prove to be greater than originally anticipated. if we are not able to achieve the anticipated results from the implementation of any of our strategic capital projects, or if we incur unanticipated implementation costs, our results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected.      dependence on critical raw materials subject to price and availability fluctuations. we rely to a substantial extent on third parties to supply certain raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products. purchase prices and availability of these critical raw materials are subject to volatility. at any given time we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical raw materials on a timely basis, on price and other terms acceptable, or at all.      if suppliers increase the price of critical raw materials, we may not have alternative sources of supply. in addition, to the extent that we have quoted prices to customers and accepted customer orders for products prior to purchasing necessary raw materials, or have existing contracts, we may be unable to raise the price of products to cover all or part of the increased cost of the raw materials.      the manufacture of some of our products is a complex process and requires long lead times. as a result, we may experience delays or shortages in the supply of raw materials. if unable to obtain adequate and timely deliveries of required raw materials, we may be unable to timely manufacture sufficient quantities of products. this could cause us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions, or suffer harm to our reputation.      we acquire certain important raw materials that we use to produce specialty materials, including nickel, chromium, cobalt, and titanium sponge, from foreign sources. some of these sources operate in countries that may be subject to unstable political and economic conditions. these conditions may disrupt supplies or affect the prices of these materials.      volatility of raw material costs. the prices for many of the raw materials we use have been extremely volatile. since we value most of our inventory utilizing the last-in, first-out (lifo) inventory costing methodology, a rapid rise in raw material costs has a negative effect on our operating results. under the lifo inventory valuation method, changes in the cost of raw materials and production activities are recognized in cost of sales in the current period even though these material and other costs may have been incurred at significantly different values due to the length of time of our production cycle. for example, in 2009 and 2008, the effect of falling raw material costs on our lifo inventory valuation method resulted in cost of sales which were $102.8 million and $169.0 million, respectively, lower than have been recognized had we utilized the first-in, first-out (fifo) methodology to value our inventory. conversely in 2010, the increase in raw material costs on the lifo inventory valuation method resulted in cost of sales which was $60.2 million higher than would have been recognized if we utilized the fifo methodology to value our inventory. in a period of rising raw material prices, cost of sales expense recognized under lifo is generally higher than the cash costs incurred to acquire the inventory sold. however, in a period of declining raw material prices, cost of sales recognized under lifo is generally lower than cash costs incurred to acquire the inventory sold.      availability of energy resources. we rely upon third parties for our supply of energy resources consumed in the manufacture of our products. the prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions. these market conditions often are affected by political and economic factors beyond our control. disruptions in the supply of energy resources could temporarily impair the ability to manufacture products for customers. further, increases in energy costs, or changes in costs relative to energy costs paid by competitors, has and may continue to adversely affect our profitability. to the extent that these uncertainties cause suppliers and customers to be more cost sensitive, increased energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.      risks associated with environmental matters. we are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants, and disposal of wastes, and which may require that we investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. we could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws or non-compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. we are currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of our current and former sites as well as third party sites. we also could be subject to future laws and regulations that govern greenhouse gas emissions and various matters related to climate change, which could increase our operating costs. 10 table of contents      with respect to proceedings brought under the federal superfund laws, or similar state statutes, we have been identified as a potentially responsible party (prp) at approximately 39 of such sites, excluding those at which we believe we have no future liability. our involvement is limited or de minimis at approximately 30 of these sites, and the potential loss exposure with respect to any of the remaining 9 individual sites is not considered to be material.      we are a party to various cost-sharing arrangements with other prps at the sites. the terms of the cost-sharing arrangements are subject to non-disclosure agreements as confidential information. nevertheless, the cost-sharing arrangements generally require all prps to post financial assurance of the performance of the obligations or to pre-pay into an escrow or trust account their share of anticipated site-related costs. in addition, the federal government, through various agencies, is a party to several such arrangements.      we believe that we operate our businesses in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. however, from time-to-time, we are a party to lawsuits and other proceedings involving alleged violations of, or liabilities arising from environmental laws. when our liability is probable and we can reasonably estimate our costs, we record environmental liabilities in our financial statements. in many cases, we are not able to determine whether we are liable, or if liability is probable, to reasonably estimate the loss or range of loss. estimates of our liability remain subject to additional uncertainties, including the nature and extent of site contamination, available remediation alternatives, the extent of corrective actions that may be required, and the participation number and financial condition of other prps, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation. we intend to adjust our accruals to reflect new information as appropriate. future adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a given period, but we cannot reliably predict the amounts of such future adjustments. at december 31, 2010, our reserves for environmental matters totaled approximately $16 million. based on currently available information, we do not believe that there is a reasonable possibility that a loss exceeding the amount already accrued for any of the sites with which we are currently associated (either individually or in the aggregate) will be an amount that would be material to a decision to buy or sell our securities. future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters, however, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.      risks associated with current or future litigation and claims. a number of lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our currently and formerly owned businesses, including those pertaining to product liability, patent infringement, commercial, government contracting work, employment, employee benefits, taxes, environmental, health and safety and occupational disease, and stockholder matters. due to the uncertainties of litigation, we can give no assurance that we will prevail on all claims made against us in the lawsuits that we currently face or that additional claims will not be made against us in the future. while the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and some of these lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be determined adversely to us, we do not believe that the disposition of any such pending matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or liquidity, although the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period. also, we can give no assurance that any other matters brought in the future will not have a material effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.      labor matters. we have approximately 9,200 full-time employees. a portion of our workforce is covered by various collective bargaining agreements, principally with the united steel, paper and forestry, rubber, manufacturing, energy, allied industrial and service workers international union (usw), including: approximately 2,475 allegheny ludlum production, office and maintenance employees covered by collective bargaining agreements that are effective through june 2011, approximately 185 albany, oregon (oremet) employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement that is effective through june 2011, approximately 525 wah chang employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement that continues through march 2013, approximately 120 employees at our casting service facility in laporte, indiana, covered by a collective bargaining agreement that is effective through december 2011, approximately 125 employees at our precision finishing (formerly rome metals) facilities in western pennsylvania, covered by a collective bargaining agreement that is effective through may 2013, and approximately 200 employees at our portland forge facility in portland, indiana, covered by collective bargaining agreements with three unions that are effective through april 2013.      generally, collective bargaining agreements that expire may be terminated after notice by the union. after termination, the union may authorize a strike. a strike by the employees covered by one or more of the collective bargaining agreements could have a materially adverse affect on our operating results. there can be no assurance that we will succeed in concluding collective bargaining agreements with the unions to replace those that expire.      export sales. we believe that export sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our future revenues. risks associated with export sales include: political and economic instability, including weak conditions in the world’s economies; accounts receivable collection; export controls; changes in legal and regulatory requirements; policy changes affecting the markets for our products; changes in tax laws and tariffs; trade duties; and exchange rate fluctuations (which may affect sales to international customers and the value of profits earned on export sales when converted into dollars). any of these factors could materially adversely affect our results for the period in which they occur.      risks associated with retirement benefits. at december 31, 2010, our u.s. qualified defined benefit plan was fully funded, and we are not required to make any contribution to this plan during 2011. however, we may be required to fund the u.s. qualified defined benefit pension plan in the years beyond 2011 depending upon the value of plan investments and obligations in the future and 11 table of contents changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding. depending on the timing and amount, a requirement that we fund our u.s. qualified defined benefit pension plan could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.      risks associated with acquisition and disposition strategies. we intend to continue to strategically position our businesses in order to improve our ability to compete. strategies we employ to accomplish this may include seeking new or expanding existing specialty market niches for our products, expanding our global presence, acquiring businesses complementary to existing strengths and continually evaluating the performance and strategic fit of our existing business units. from time-to-time, management holds discussions with management of other companies to explore acquisition, joint ventures, and other business combination opportunities as well as possible business unit dispositions. as a result, the relative makeup of the businesses comprising our company is subject to change. acquisitions, joint ventures, and other business combinations involve various inherent risks, such as: assessing accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition or other transaction candidates; the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; our ability to achieve identified financial and operating synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; and unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquisition or other transaction. international acquisitions and other transactions could be affected by export controls, exchange rate fluctuations, domestic and foreign political conditions and a deterioration in domestic and foreign economic conditions.      internal controls over financial reporting. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      insurance. we have maintained various forms of insurance, including insurance covering claims related to our properties and risks associated with our operations. our existing property and liability insurance coverages contain exclusions and limitations on coverage. from time-to-time, in connection with renewals of insurance, we have experienced additional exclusions and limitations on coverage, larger self-insured retentions and deductibles and significantly higher premiums. as a result, in the future our insurance coverage may not cover claims to the extent that it has in the past and the costs that we incur to procure insurance may increase significantly, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.      political and social turmoil. the war on terrorism and recent political and social turmoil could put pressure on economic conditions in the united states and worldwide. these political, social and economic conditions could make it difficult for us, our suppliers and our customers to forecast accurately and plan future business activities, and could adversely affect the financial condition of our suppliers and customers and affect customer decisions as to the amount and timing of purchases from us. as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.      risks associated with government contracts. some of our operating companies perform contractual work directly for the u.s. government. various claims (whether based on u.s. government or company audits and investigations or otherwise) could be asserted against us related to our u.s. government contract work. depending on the circumstances and the outcome, such proceedings could result in fines, penalties, compensatory and treble damages or the cancellation or suspension of payments under one or more u.s. government contracts. under government regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating divisions or units, can also be suspended or debarred from government contracts based on the results of investigations. currently, there is no material portion of our business with the u.s. government which might be subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the u.s. government. risks associated with our pending acquisition of ladish co., inc. (ladish)      combining the businesses of ati and ladish may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected, which may adversely affect our results and affect adversely the value of our stock following the merger. we have entered into a merger agreement to acquire ladish because we believe that the acquisition will be beneficial to ati and its stockholders. the success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of ati and ladish. to realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully combine the businesses of ati and ladish in an efficient and effective manner. if we are not able to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of our common stock may be affected adversely.      specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the operations of ladish into our operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger include, among other things:   •   integrating and optimizing the utilization of the properties and equipment of ati and ladish;   •   integrating the sales and information technology systems of ati and ladish; and 12 table of contents   •   conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the companies.      integration efforts will also divert management attention and resources. an inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, level of our expenses and operating results, which may affect adversely the value of our common stock after the completion of the acquisition.      in addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. actual synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than what we expect and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. if we are not able to adequately address these challenges, we may be unable to successfully integrate ladish’s operations into ours, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two companies.      any delay in completing the acquisition of ladish may substantially reduce the benefits that we expect to be obtained from the acquisition. the acquisition of ladish is subject to a number of conditions beyond the control of ati and ladish that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. we cannot predict whether or when the conditions required to complete the acquisition will be satisfied. moreover, each of ati and ladish may terminate the merger agreement if the acquisition is not consummated by june 30, 2011. any delay in completing the acquisition may materially adversely affect the synergies and other benefits that we expect to achieve if the acquisition and the integration of the companies’ respective businesses are completed within the expected timeframe.      our stock price and business may be adversely affected if the acquisition of ladish is not completed. if the acquisition is not completed, we will be required to pay certain costs incurred by us relating to the acquisition, whether or not the acquisition is completed, such as fees and expenses of our advisors, litigation related expenses and printing fees. also, matters relating to the acquisition may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us as an independent company.      in addition, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our employees, customers, suppliers and other business partners. we are subject to litigation related to the acquisition and could be subject to additional litigation related to any failure to complete the merger, or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to perform our obligations under the merger agreement. if the acquisition is not completed, we cannot assure you that the risks described above will not materialize and will not materially affect our business, financial results and stock prices. item 1b. unresolved