item 1a. risk factors forward-looking statements and risk factors. we caution that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995) contained in this annual report on form 10-k or made by us, our management or our spokespeople involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, many of which may be beyond our control. words such as “estimate,” “project,” “plan,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend” and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. except as may be required by applicable law, we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements. the following factors could affect our financial performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements: • changes in economic and financial conditions, and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity; • changing fashion trends and consumer preferences, and the ability to manage our inventory commensurate with customer demand, could adversely impact our sales levels and profitability; • fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw materials, labor and transportation, could cause manufacturing delays and increase our costs; • a significant component of our growth strategy is international expansion, which requires significant capital investment, adds complexity to our operations and may strain our resources and adversely impact current store performance; • our international expansion plan is dependent on a number of factors, any of which could delay or prevent successful penetration into new markets or could adversely affect the profitability of our international operations; • we have increased the focus of our growth strategy on direct-to-consumer sales channels, failure to successfully develop our position in these channels could have an adverse impact on our results of operations; • our direct-to-consumer operations are subject to numerous risks that could adversely impact sales; • failure to successfully implement certain growth initiatives may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations; • our business could suffer if our information technology systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively; • comparable sales, including direct-to-consumer, may continue to fluctuate on a regular basis and impact the volatility of the price of our common stock; • extreme weather conditions may negatively impact our results of operations; • our market share may be negatively impacted by increasing competition and pricing pressures from companies with brands or merchandise competitive with ours; • our ability to attract customers to our stores depends, in part, on the success of the shopping malls or area attractions in which most of our stores are located; • our net sales fluctuate on a seasonal basis, causing our results of operations to be susceptible to changes in back-to-school and holiday shopping patterns; • our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands; • we rely on the experience and skills of our senior executive officers, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business; • interruption in the flow of merchandise from our key vendors and international manufacturers could disrupt our supply chain, which could result in lost sales and increased costs; • in a number of our european stores, associates are represented by workers’ councils and unions, whose demands could adversely affect our profitability or operating standards for our brands; • we depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture and delivery of all our merchandise; • our reliance on two distribution centers domestically and three third-party distribution centers internationally makes us susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting our distribution centers; • we rely on third-party vendors as well as other third-party arrangements for many aspects of our business, failure to successfully manage these relationships could negatively impact our results of operations or expose us to liability for the actions of third-party vendors acting on our behalf; • we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with credit card fraud and identity theft that would cause us to incur unexpected expenses and loss of revenues; • our facilities, systems and stores, as well as the facilities and systems of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events, any of which could result in an interruption to our business and adversely affect our operating results; 7 table of contents • our litigation exposure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations; • our inability or failure to adequately protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new markets; • a currently threatened proxy fight and any other actions of activist stockholders could have a negative effect on our business; • fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our operating results; • the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition; • our inability to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices or our failure to adequately reserve for self-insured exposures might increase our expenses and adversely impact our financial results; • operating results and cash flows at the store level may cause us to incur impairment charges; • we are subject to customs, advertising, consumer protection, privacy, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices, incur increased costs or harm our reputation if we do not comply; • changes in the regulatory or compliance landscape could adversely affect our business and results of operations; • our unsecured amended and restated credit agreement (the “amended and restated credit agreement”) and our term loan agreement include financial and other covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations; • compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reported financial results; • our inability to successfully implement our long-range strategic plan could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability; and • our estimates of the expenses that we may incur in connection with the closures of the gilly hicks stores could prove to be inaccurate. the following sets forth a description of the preceding risk factors that we believe may be relevant to an understanding of our business. these risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of our forward-looking statements. changes in economic and financial conditions, and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. our business depends on consumer demand for our merchandise. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. our performance is subject to factors that affect worldwide economic conditions including unemployment, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on declines in the financial, residential real estate and mortgage markets, sales tax rates and tax rate increases, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence in future economic and political conditions, consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security, the value of the u.s. dollar versus foreign currencies and other macroeconomic factors. these factors may cause levels of spending to remain depressed relative to historical levels for the foreseeable future, including a decrease in discretionary spending on retail items. these factors also may cause consumers to purchase products from lower-priced competitors or to defer purchases of apparel and personal care products. in addition, we have a significant presence in the european market with stores in the united kingdom, france, germany, netherlands, austria, belgium, spain, italy, ireland, sweden, poland and denmark. the ongoing european debt crisis may impact consumer demand for our merchandise. the economic conditions and factors described above could adversely affect the productivity of our stores, as well as adversely affect the pace of opening new international stores, or their productivity once opened. economic uncertainty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and capital resources if reduced consumer demand for our merchandise should occur. it could also impact our ability to fund growth and/or result in our becoming reliant on external financing, the availability of which may be uncertain. in addition, the economic environment may exacerbate some of the risks noted below, including consumer demand, strain on available resources, our international growth strategy and the availability of real estate, interruption of the flow of merchandise from key vendors and manufacturers, and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. the risks could be exacerbated individually, or collectively. 8 table of contents changing fashion trends and consumer preferences, and the ability to manage our inventory commensurate with customer demand, could adversely impact our sales levels and profitability. our success largely depends on our ability to anticipate and gauge the fashion preferences of our customers and provide merchandise that satisfies constantly shifting demands in a timely manner. our merchandise and our brands must appeal to our consumers, whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are also subject to rapid change. we must translate market trends into appropriate, saleable merchandise far in advance of its sale in our stores or through our websites. because we enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer preferences and demand, pricing shifts, and the sub-optimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. moreover, there can be no assurance that we will continue to anticipate consumer demands and accurately plan inventory successfully in the future. changing consumer preferences and fashion trends, whether we are able to anticipate, identify and respond to them or not, could adversely impact our sales. inventory levels for certain merchandise styles no longer considered to be “on trend” may increase, leading to higher markdowns to sell through excess inventory. a distressed economic and retail environment, in which many of our competitors continue to engage in aggressive promotional activities, particularly in the u.s., increases the importance of reacting appropriately to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our merchandise, or if our manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost sales. any of these events could significantly harm our operating results and financial condition. fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw materials, labor and transportation, could cause manufacturing delays and increase our costs. fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods, or our ability to meet customer demand. the prices for such fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, particularly cotton, as well as the cost of compliance with sourcing laws. the price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields and weather patterns. such factors may be exacerbated by legislation and regulations associated with global climate change. in addition, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing significantly, and as the middle class in developing countries continues to grow, it is unlikely such cost pressure will abate. the cost of transportation has been increasing as well and, if the price of oil continues to increase, and there continues to be significant unrest in the middle east, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. we may not be able to pass all or a portion of higher raw materials prices or labor or transportation costs on to our customers, which could adversely affect our gross margin and results of our operations. a significant component of our growth strategy is international expansion, which requires significant capital investment, adds complexity to our operations and may strain our resources and adversely impact current store performance. our growth strategy largely depends on the opening of new international stores. this international expansion has placed, and will continue to place, increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources at all levels of the company. these increased demands may cause us to operate our business less efficiently, which in turn could cause deterioration in the performance of our existing stores or could adversely affect our inventory levels. furthermore, our ability to conduct business in international markets may be adversely affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. our international expansion strategy and success could also be adversely impacted by the global economy. failure to properly implement our growth strategy could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or could otherwise adversely affect our ability to achieve our objectives. in addition, as we continue to expand our overseas operations, we are subject to certain u.s. laws, including the foreign corrupt practices act, in addition to the laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. we must use all commercially reasonable efforts to ensure our associates comply with these laws. if any of our overseas operations, or our associates or agents, violate such laws, we could become subject to sanctions or other penalties that could negatively affect our reputation, business and operating results. since we use third-parties to assist with our international expansion, we may be exposed to liability for the acts of those third-parties, if taken on our behalf, and if in violation of certain u.s. laws, including the foreign corrupt practices act. 9 table of contents our international expansion plan is dependent on a number of factors, any of which could delay or prevent successful penetration into new markets or could adversely affect the profitability of our international operations. as we expand internationally, we may incur significant costs related to starting up and maintaining foreign operations. costs may include, but are not limited to, obtaining prime locations for stores, setting up foreign offices and distribution centers, hiring experienced management and maintaining good relations with individual associates and groups of associates. we may be unable to open and operate new stores successfully, or we may face operational issues that delay our intended pace of international store openings, and, in any such case, our growth may be limited, unless we can: • identify suitable markets and sites for store locations; • address the different operational characteristics present in each country to which we expand, including employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate, lease provisions and local reporting or legal requirements; • negotiate acceptable lease terms, in some cases in locations in which the relative rights and obligations of landlords and tenants differ significantly from the customs and practices in the u.s.; • hire, train and retain qualified store personnel; • gain and retain acceptance from foreign customers; • manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; • integrate new stores into existing operations and expand infrastructure to accommodate growth; • foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise; • generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund our expansion plan; • manage foreign currency exchange risks effectively; and • achieve acceptable operating margins from new stores. failure to implement our international expansion plan consistent with our internal expectations, whether as a result of one or more of the factors listed above or other factors, could adversely affect our ability to achieve the objectives that we have established. we have increased the focus of our growth strategy on direct-to-consumer sales channels, failure to successfully develop our position in these channels could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. during fiscal 2013, we increased our focus on direct-to-consumer sales channels. in order to facilitate growth, we increased our capital spending and labor to develop these channels, increased investment in media to attract new customers and developed more efficient fulfillment, shipping and customer service operations. there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully maintain or expand our direct-to-consumer sales channels. in addition, reliance on direct-to-consumer channels make us vulnerable to certain risks and uncertainties including shifting consumer traffic patterns, customer data breach, direct-to-consumer buying trends, strength of brand perception, changes in technology, website downtime and other technological failures. changes in foreign governmental regulations relating to direct-to-consumer sales may also negatively impact our customer service operations. our inability to adequately respond to these risks and uncertainties or to successfully maintain and expand our direct-to-consumer business may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our direct-to-consumer operations are subject to numerous risks that could adversely impact sales. we sell merchandise for each brand over the internet, both domestically and internationally. our direct-to-consumer operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • reliance on third-party computer hardware/software providers; • rapid technological change and the implementation of new systems and platforms; • diversions of sales from our stores; • liability for online content; • violations of state, federal or international laws, including those relating to online privacy; • credit card fraud; • the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, including computer viruses; • telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions; and • disruption of internet service, whether for technical reasons or as a result of state-sponsored censorship. our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our direct-to-consumer business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. 10 table of contents failure to successfully implement certain growth initiatives may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we believe that our future growth and profitability will depend on certain growth initiatives including third-party brand relationships, wholesale, joint venture or other third-party relationships, new brand concepts and potential acquisitions. the development of these growth initiatives requires management’s focus and attention, as well as significant capital investments. furthermore, these growth initiatives are susceptible to risks, including lack of customer acceptance, competition from existing or new retailers and unanticipated operating issues. failure to successfully implement our expansion initiatives through third-party brand relationships, wholesale, joint venture relationships and acquisitions or new brand concepts could have an adverse impact on our financial conditions and results of operations. we currently have one active joint venture in the united arab emirates and are actively pursuing international expansion activities in the middle east and elsewhere which include additional joint ventures. to the extent our current or future joint ventures partners do not operate the business in a manner consistent with our brand requirements, or in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, our reputation or operations could be adversely affected. further, the use of joint venture partners or other third parties who act on our behalf expose us to additional risk should they fail to comply with relevant laws and regulations. if we do not exercise adequate oversight and control over these third parties, we may be subject to enforcement actions and fines, including administrative or judicial penalties for violations of third parties acting on our behalf. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. the functional currency of our international subsidiaries is generally the local currency in which each operates, which includes british pounds, canadian dollars, chinese yuan, danish kroner, euros, hong kong dollars, japanese yen, polish zloty, singapore dollars, south korean won, swedish kronor, united arab emirates dirham, australian dollar, brazilian real and swiss francs. our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars. therefore, we must translate revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities from functional currencies into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during, or at the end of the reporting period. in addition, our international subsidiaries transact in currencies other than their functional currency, including intercompany transactions, which could result in foreign currency transaction gains or losses. the fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies could impact our financial results. furthermore, we purchase substantially our entire inventory in u.s. dollars. as a result, our gross margin rate from international operations is subject to volatility from movements in exchange rates over time, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and profitability from the growth desired from international operations. our business could suffer if our information technology systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. we rely heavily on our information technology systems: to operate our websites; record and process transactions; respond to customer inquiries; manage inventory; purchase, sell and ship merchandise on a timely basis; and maintain cost-efficient operations. given the significant number of transactions that are completed annually, it is vital to maintain constant operation of our computer hardware and software systems and maintain cyber security. despite efforts to prevent such an occurrence, our information technology systems may be vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from computer viruses, power outages, third-party intrusions and other technical malfunctions. if our systems are damaged, or fail to function properly, we may have to make monetary investments to repair or replace the systems, and we could endure delays in our operations. in addition, we regularly evaluate our information technology systems and requirements and are currently implementing modifications and/or upgrades to the information technology systems that support our business. modifications include replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, acquiring new systems with new functionality, and improving our ability to mitigate business risk in the event of a force majeure event at our primary data center. we are aware of the inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system information, system disruptions and user acceptance and understanding. we believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through disciplined adherence to methodology, program management, testing and user involvement, improving the resiliency of our overall systems, as well as securing appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying the replacement technologies. any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by a security breach or our failure to successfully upgrade our systems, could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed. such a loss or delay could - especially if the disruption or slowdown occurred during our peak selling seasons - result in delays of merchandise delivery to our stores and customers, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and cause our sales and profitability to decline. 11 table of contents comparable sales, including direct-to-consumer, may continue to fluctuate on a regular basis and impact the volatility of the price of our common stock. our comparable sales, defined as year-over-year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and the square footage of which has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% and our direct-to-consumer sales, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual and quarterly basis and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. we believe that a variety of factors affect comparable sales results including, but not limited to, fashion trends, actions by competitors or mall anchor tenants, changes in economic conditions and consumer spending patterns, weather conditions, opening and/or closing of our stores in proximity to each other, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix and the calendar shifts of tax free and holiday periods. comparable sales fluctuations may impact our ability to leverage fixed direct expenses, including store rent and store asset depreciation, which may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. in addition, comparable sales fluctuations may have been an important factor in the volatility of the price of our common stock in the past, and it is likely that future comparable sales fluctuations will contribute to stock price volatility in the future. extreme weather conditions may negatively impact our results of operations. severe weather conditions and changes in weather patterns can influence customer trends, consumer traffic and shopping habits. unseasonably warm temperatures in the winter or cool temperatures in the summer may diminish demand for our seasonal merchandise. in addition, severe weather can also decrease customer traffic in our stores and reduce sales and profitability. as a result, extended periods of extreme weather conditions may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. our market share may be negatively impacted by increasing competition and pricing pressures from companies with brands or merchandise competitive with ours. the sale of apparel and personal care products through stores and direct-to-consumer channels is a highly competitive business with numerous participants, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores, as well as regional, national and international department stores. the substantial sales growth in the direct-to-consumer channel within the last few years has encouraged the entry of many new competitors and an increase in competition from established companies. we face a variety of competitive challenges, including: • anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands or preferences better than our competitors; • maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in several diverse demographic markets; • sourcing merchandise efficiently; • developing innovative, high-quality merchandise in styles that appeal to our consumers and in ways that favorably distinguish us from our competitors; and • countering the aggressive promotional activities of many of our competitors without diminishing the aspirational nature of our brands and brand equity. in light of the competitive challenges we face, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future. further, increases in competition could reduce our sales and harm our operating results and business. our ability to attract customers to our stores depends, in part, on the success of the shopping malls or area attractions in which most of our stores are located. in order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping malls or street locations. our stores benefit from the ability of the malls’ “anchor” tenants, generally large department stores and other area attractions, to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of malls in the u.s. and, increasingly, in many international locations as shopping destinations. we cannot control the loss of an anchor or other significant tenant in a shopping mall in which we have a store; the development of new shopping malls in the u.s. or around the world; the availability or cost of appropriate locations; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping malls. all of these factors may impact our ability to meet our productivity targets for our domestic stores and our growth objectives for our international stores and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. in addition, some malls that were in prominent locations when we opened stores may cease to be viewed as prominent. if this trend continues or if the popularity of mall shopping continues to decline generally among our customers, our sales may decline, which would impact our gross profits and net income. part of our future growth is dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. we cannot be sure as to when or whether such desirable locations will become available at reasonable costs. 12 table of contents our net sales fluctuate on a seasonal basis, causing our results of operations to be susceptible to changes in back-to-school and holiday shopping patterns. historically, our operations have been seasonal, with a significant amount of net sales and net income occurring in the fourth fiscal quarter, due to the increased sales during the holiday selling season and, to a lesser extent, the third fiscal quarter, reflecting increased sales during the back-to-school selling season in the u.s. our net sales and net income during the first and second fiscal quarters are typically lower due, in part, to the traditional slowdown in retail sales immediately following the holiday selling season. as a result of this seasonality, net sales and net income during any fiscal quarter cannot be used as an accurate indicator of our annual results. any factors negatively affecting us during the third and fourth fiscal quarters of any year, including inclement weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the entire year. our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands. our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our brands. our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity. in addition, our reputation could be jeopardized if our third-party vendors fail to comply with our vendor code of conduct. any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for our merchandise. failure to comply with ethical, social, product, labor, health and safety or environmental standards, or related political considerations, could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. public perception about our products or our stores, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brands and have a material adverse effect on our business. failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. we rely on the experience and skills of our senior executive officers, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business. our senior executive officers closely supervise all aspects of our business — in particular, the design of our merchandise and the operation of our stores. our senior executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in the retail business and have made significant contributions to the growth and success of our brands. if we were to lose the benefit of their involvement — in particular the services of any one or more of michael s. jeffries, chief executive officer; james n. bierbower, executive vice president — human resources; diane chang, executive vice president — sourcing; jonathan e. ramsden, executive vice president, chief operating officer and chief financial officer; amy zehrer, executive vice president — stores, — without adequate succession plans, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, our new leadership positions for our major brands will play an important role in enhancing brand engagement and profitability. failure to find qualified individuals to serve as brand presidents may have a negative effect on the future development of our brands. competition for such senior executive officers is intense, and we cannot be sure we will be able to attract, retain and develop a sufficient number of qualified senior executive officers in future periods. interruption in the flow of merchandise from our key vendors and international manufacturers could disrupt our supply chain, which could result in lost sales and could increase our costs. we source the majority of our merchandise outside of the u.s. through arrangements with approximately 175 vendors which includes foreign manufacturers located throughout the world, primarily in asia and central and south america. in addition, many of our domestic manufacturers maintain production facilities overseas. political, social or economic instability in asia, central or south america, or in other regions in which our manufacturers are located, could cause disruptions in trade, including exports to the u.s. other events that could also cause disruptions to exports to the u.s. include: • the imposition of additional trade law provisions or regulations; • reliance on a limited number of shipping and air carriers who may experience capacity issues that adversely affect our ability to ship inventory in a timely manner or for an acceptable cost; • the imposition of additional duties, tariffs and other charges on imports and exports; • quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements; • economic uncertainties and adverse economic conditions (including inflation and recession); • fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; • the potential of manufacturer financial instability, inability to access needed liquidity or bankruptcy; • significant labor disputes, such as dock strikes; • significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to port security considerations; • financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured; 13 table of contents • natural disasters; and • regulations to address climate change. in addition, we cannot predict whether the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured, or may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to new or additional trade restrictions imposed by the u.s. or foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. trade restrictions, including new or increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as u.s. or foreign labor strikes and work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in a number of our european stores, associates are represented by workers’ councils and unions, whose demands could adversely affect our profitability or operating standards for our brands. in a number of our european stores, particularly in france, germany, italy and spain, associates are represented by workers' councils and unions. these workers’ councils and unions, as well as government officials who support their positions, have, in a number of instances, made demands that could adversely affect our profitability or have a negative effect on the operating standards we believe are critical to our brands. we are committed to working with all of our associates, whether they are represented by a workers’ council or union or not, and we believe we maintain good relations with our associates; however, there can be no assurance that we will not experience work stoppages or other labor-related issues that could have an adverse effect on our profitability or on our operating standards. we depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture and delivery of all our merchandise. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. as a result, the continued success of our operations is tied to our timely receipt of quality merchandise from third-party manufacturers. our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by foreign manufacturers. we cannot control all of the various factors, which include inclement weather, natural disasters, political and financial instability, strikes, health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, and acts of terrorism, that might affect a manufacturer’s ability to ship orders of our merchandise in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards. a manufacturer’s inability to ship orders in a timely manner or meet our quality standards could cause delays in responding to consumer demands and negatively affect consumer confidence in the quality and value of our brands or negatively impact our competitive position, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are also susceptible to increases in sourcing costs from our manufacturers which we may not be able to pass on to our customers and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. additionally, while we utilize third-party compliance auditors to visit and monitor the operations of our manufacturers, we do not have control of the independent manufacturers or their labor practices. as a result, the risk remains that one or more of our manufacturers will not adhere to our global compliance standards and violate labor laws or other laws, including consumer and product safety laws. in addition, our third-party vendor base could expose us to liability for their own failures to comply with local or regulatory requirements. non-governmental organizations might attempt to create an unfavorable impression of our sourcing practices or the practices of some of our vendors or manufacturers that could harm our image. if either of these events occur, we could lose customer goodwill and favorable brand recognition. the efficient operation of our stores and direct-to-consumer business depends on the timely receipt of merchandise from our distribution centers. we deliver our merchandise to our stores and direct-to-consumer customers using independent third parties. we utilize primarily one contract carrier to ship merchandise and related materials to our north american stores and direct-to-consumer customers, and a separate contract carrier for our european and asian stores and direct-to-consumer customers. the independent third parties employ personnel that may be represented by labor unions. disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by associates or contractors of any of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise. there can be no assurance that such stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. any failure by a third-party to respond adequately to our distribution needs would disrupt our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, we are susceptible to increases in fuel costs which may increase the cost of distribution. if we are not able to pass this cost on to our customers, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 14 table of contents our reliance on two distribution centers domestically and third-party distribution centers internationally makes us susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting our distribution centers. our two distribution centers located in new albany, ohio, manage the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise to our north american stores and to our north american and asian direct-to-consumer customers. we also use a third-party distribution center in the netherlands to manage the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise delivered to our stores and direct-to-consumer customers in europe, a third-party distribution center in hong kong to manage receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise delivered to our stores in asia and australia and a third-party distribution center in the united arab emirates to manage, receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise delivered to our stores in the middle east. as a result, our operations are susceptible to local and regional factors, such as system failures, accidents, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, demographic and population changes, as well as other unforeseen events and circumstances. if our distribution operations were disrupted, our ability to replace inventory in our stores and process direct-to-consumer orders could be interrupted and sales could be negatively impacted. we rely on third-party vendors as well as other third-party arrangements for many aspects of our business, failure to successfully manage these relationships could negatively impact our results of operations or expose us to liability for the actions of third-party vendors acting on our behalf. we regularly rely on third-party relationships for many aspects of our business. these relationships include arrangements with vendors, subcontractors, software system providers and product manufacturers. our dependence on these third-parties makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties’ failure to meet their contractual obligations or their failure to comply with relevant laws and regulations. vendors that provide government relations, regulatory assistance, permitting services, or are otherwise acting on our behalf expose us to additional risk should they fail to comply with relevant laws and regulations. these types of third-party relationships are subject to increasing regulatory requirements and attention that necessitates enhanced due diligence in the selection, contracting and ongoing monitoring of these relationships. changing regulatory requirements may also require us to renegotiate our existing agreements with these third-parties to meet enhanced requirements. if we do not exercise adequate oversight and control over these third-party relationships, we may be subject to enforcement actions and fines, including administrative or judicial penalties for any direct legal or regulatory violations, and potentially for violations of those third parties acting on our behalf. in addition, failure to adequately manage these third-party relationships may negatively impact our results of operations or negatively impact our reputation. we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with credit card fraud and identity theft that would cause us to incur unexpected expenses and loss of revenues. in the standard course of business, we process customer information, including payment information, through our stores and direct-to-consumer programs. there is an increased concern over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy. we endeavor to protect consumer identity and payment information through the implementation of security technologies, processes, and procedures. it is possible that an individual or group could defeat our security measures and access sensitive customer information. actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. incidents which result in exposure of customer data will be handled in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. exposure of customer data through any means could materially harm a&f by, but not limited to, reputation loss, regulatory fines, and costs of litigation. our facilities, systems and stores, as well as the facilities and systems of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events, any of which could result in an interruption to our business and adversely affect our operating results. our retail stores, corporate offices, distribution centers, infrastructure projects and direct-to-consumer operations, as well as the operations of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to damage from natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events. if any of these events result in damage to our facilities, systems or stores, or the facilities or systems of our vendors or manufacturers, we may experience interruptions in our business until the damage is repaired, resulting in the potential loss of customers and revenues. in addition, we may incur costs in repairing any damage which exceeds our applicable insurance coverage. our business is also vulnerable to any interruption related to an outbreak of a pandemic disease in countries where we have retail locations or source our merchandise. 15 table of contents our litigation exposure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are involved, from time to time, in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. litigation matters may include, but are not limited to, contract disputes, employment-related, labor relations, commercial litigation, intellectual property rights and shareholder actions. any litigation that we become a party to could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. our current litigation exposure could change in the event of the discovery of damaging facts with respect to legal matters pending against us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with management’s evaluation of the claims. should management’s evaluation prove incorrect, our exposure could greatly exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our inability or failure to adequately protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new markets. we believe our core trademarks, abercrombie & fitch®, abercrombie®, hollister®, gilly hicks® and the “moose” and “seagull” logos, are an essential element of our strategy. we have obtained or applied for federal registration of these trademarks with the u.s. patent and trademark office and the registries of countries where stores are located or likely to be located in the future. in addition, we own registrations and have pending applications for other trademarks in the u.s. and have applied for or obtained registrations from the registries in many foreign countries in which our stores or our manufacturers are located. there can be no assurance that we will obtain registrations that have been applied for or that the registrations we obtain will prevent the imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others. if a third-party copies our products in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, our brand image could be materially adversely affected. because we have not yet registered all of our trademarks in all categories, or in all foreign countries in which we source or offer our merchandise now, or may in the future, our international expansion and our merchandising of products using these marks could be limited. for example, we cannot ensure that others will not try to block the manufacture, export or sale of our products as a violation of their trademarks or other proprietary rights. the pending applications for international registration of various trademarks could be challenged or rejected in those countries because third parties of whom we are not currently aware have already registered similar marks in those countries. accordingly, it may be possible, in those foreign countries where the status of various applications is pending or unclear, for a third-party owner of the national trademark registration for a similar mark to prohibit the manufacture, sale or exportation of branded goods in or from that country. if we are unable to reach an arrangement with any such party, our manufacturers may be unable to manufacture our products, and we may be unable to sell certain products in those countries. our inability to register our trademarks or purchase or license the right to use our trademarks or logos in these jurisdictions could limit our ability to obtain supplies from, or manufacture in, less costly markets or penetrate new markets should our business plan include selling our merchandise in those non-u.s. jurisdictions. we have an anti-counterfeiting program, under the auspices of the abercrombie & fitch asset protection team, whose goal is to eliminate the supply of illegal pieces of our products. the asset protection team interacts with investigators, customs officials and law enforcement entities throughout the world to combat the illegal use of our trademarks. although brand security initiatives are in place, we cannot guarantee that our efforts against the counterfeiting of our brands will be successful. a currently threatened proxy fight and any other actions of activist stockholders could have a negative effect on our business. in february 2014, we received a notice from engaged capital, a stockholder, that discloses its intent to nominate five individuals for election to our board of directors at our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders. if a proxy contest results from this notice or if other activist activities ensue, our business could be adversely affected because responding to proxy contests, litigation and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees. in addition, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities and harm our ability to attract new investors. if individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our initiatives and to retain and attract experienced executives and employees. finally, we may experience a significant increase in legal fees, administrative and associated costs incurred in connection with responding to a proxy contest or related action. these actions could also cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility or stagnation. 16 table of contents fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in many u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions. in addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales, consumption or value-added taxes (“vat”) in many jurisdictions. we record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of foreign and domestic tax audits. at any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. the results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. as a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are evaluated. in addition, our effective tax rate in any given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. fluctuations in duties could also have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in some international markets, we are required to hold and submit vat to the appropriate local tax authorities. failure to correctly calculate or submit the appropriate amounts could subject us to substantial fines and penalties that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, tax legislation may be enacted in the future, domestically or abroad, that impacts our current or future tax structure and effective tax rate. the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. the continued threat of terrorism and the associated heightened security measures and military actions in response to acts of terrorism have disrupted commerce. any further acts of terrorism or a future war may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales revenue by causing consumer spending and/or mall traffic to decline. furthermore, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, or any other unforeseen interruption of commerce, could negatively impact our business by interfering with our ability to obtain merchandise from foreign manufacturers. our inability to obtain merchandise from our foreign manufacturers or substitute other manufacturers, at similar costs and in a timely manner, could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our inability to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices or our failure to adequately reserve for self-insured exposures might increase our expenses and adversely impact our financial results. we believe that commercial insurance coverage is prudent for risk management in certain areas of our business. insurance costs may increase substantially in the future and may be affected by natural catastrophes, fear of terrorism, financial irregularities and other fraud at publicly-held companies, intervention by the government or a decrease in the number of insurance carriers. in addition, the carriers with which we hold our policies may go out of business, or may be otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations. furthermore, for certain types or levels of risk, such as risks associated with earthquakes, hurricanes or terrorist attacks, we may determine that we cannot obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices, if at all. therefore, we may choose to forego or limit our purchase of relevant commercial insurance, choosing instead to self-insure one or more types or levels of risk. we are primarily self-insured for workers’ compensation and associate health benefits. if we suffer a substantial loss that is not covered by commercial insurance or our self-insurance reserves, the loss and attendant expenses could harm our business and operating results. in addition, exposures could exist for which no insurance may be available and for which we have not reserved. operating results and cash flows at the store level may cause us to incur impairment charges. long-lived assets, primarily property and equipment, are reviewed at the store level at least annually for impairment, or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that a full recovery of net asset values through future cash flows is in question. the review could result in significant charges related to underperforming stores which could impact our results of operations. furthermore, our impairment review requires us to make estimates and projections regarding, but not limited to, future cash flows. we make certain estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for our store locations and other property and equipment. if these estimates or projections change or prove incorrect, we may be, and have been, required to record impairment charges on certain store locations and other property and equipment. we have recognized significant impairment charges in the past and in the current year and may do so in the future. 17 table of contents we are subject to customs, advertising, consumer protection, privacy, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices, incur increased costs or harm our reputation if we do not comply. we are subject to numerous laws and regulations, including customs, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection, general privacy, health information privacy, identity theft, online privacy, employee health and safety, unsolicited commercial communication and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, intellectual property, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores, direct-to-consumer operations and distribution centers. as our business becomes more international in scope and we enter more countries internationally, the number of laws and regulations that we are subject to, as well as their scope and reach, increase significantly and heighten our risks. if these laws and regulations were to change, or were violated by our management, associates, suppliers, vendors or other parties with whom we do business, the costs of certain merchandise could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our merchandise, be subject to fines or penalties, temporary or permanent store closures, increased regulatory scrutiny or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and adversely affect our business and results of operations. health and safety in europe is highly regulated and compliance with these regulations may require additional cost and possible changes to our business practices. failure to protect personally identifiable information of our customers or associates could subject us to considerable reputational harm, as well as significant fines, penalties and sanctions both domestically and abroad. in addition, changes in federal, state and international minimum wage laws and overtime pay requirements and other laws relating to associate benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability. we are also subject to u.s. securities laws and regulations, as well as stock exchange rules which could subject us to enforcement actions, de-listing and adverse legal sanctions for non-compliance. changes in the regulatory or compliance landscape could adversely affect our business and results of operations. laws and regulations at the state, federal and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory landscape. any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation including those related to health care, taxes, transportation and logistics, privacy, environmental issues, trade, product safety or employment and labor, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our unsecured amended and restated credit agreement (the “amended and restated credit agreement”) and our term loan agreement include financial and other covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations. our amended and restated credit agreement expires on july 27, 2016 and our term loan agreement has a maturity date of february 23, 2017. market conditions could potentially impact the size and terms of a replacement facility or facilities. both our amended and restated credit agreement and our term loan agreement contain financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. if we fail to comply with the covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result, and the lenders could declare outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable. if that should occur, we cannot guarantee that we would have sufficient liquidity at that time to repay or refinance borrowings under the amended and restated credit agreement and/or the term loan agreement. the inability to obtain credit on commercially reasonable terms, or a default under the current amended and restated credit agreement and/or the amended term loan agreement, could adversely impact our liquidity and results of operations. compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reported financial results. changing regulatory requirements for corporate governance and public disclosure, including sec regulations and the financial accounting standards board’s accounting standards requirements are creating additional complexities for public companies. for example, the dodd-frank act contains provisions governing “conflict minerals,” certain minerals originating from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries. as a result, the sec adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use conflict minerals mined in the named countries. there will be costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, including diligence to determine the sources of minerals used in our products and possible changes to sources of our inputs. stockholder activism, the current political environment, financial reform legislation and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations. in addition, the expected future requirement to transition to, or converge with, international financial reporting standards is creating uncertainty and additional complexities. these changing regulatory requirements may lead to additional compliance costs, as well as the diversion of our management’s time and attention from strategic business activities and could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. 18 table of contents our inability to successfully implement our long range plan could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. our long range plan includes four key objectives: improving the productivity and profitability in our u.s. stores, continuing our profitable international growth, increasing direct-to-consumer penetration and reducing our expenses. our ability to execute these strategies successfully and in a timely fashion is subject to various risks and uncertainties as described under this “risk factors” section. specifically, these risks can be categorized into market risk, execution risk and resonance risk. market risk includes consumer spending, actions of brand competitors and changes in demographics or preferences of our target customer. achieving the goals of our long range plan is also dependent on us executing the plan successfully. finally, the strategies we implement in connection with the long range plan may not resonate with our customers. our profit improvement initiative, as a key element of the long range plan described above, is expected to achieve annualized gross savings in excess of $175 million across the following work-streams: non-merchandise, supply chain, marketing, store operations and home office expenses. we may be unsuccessful in achieving our annual savings target for several reasons, including, but not limited to, the fact that our assumed savings estimates may be inaccurate due to factors outside of our control, such as raw material costs or that due to business decisions, we decide not to implement certain elements of the profit improvement initiative or we decide to increase spending in one or more of these work-streams. it may take longer than anticipated to generate the expected benefits from our long range plan and there can be no guarantee that these initiatives will result in improved operating results. in addition, failure to successfully implement our long range plan could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. our estimates of the expenses that we may incur in connection with the closures of the gilly hicks stores could prove to be inaccurate. as announced in november 2013, we approved the closure of our stand-alone gilly hicks stores. we expect to substantially complete the closures by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2014. in connection with the store closings we incurred $81.5 million in restructuring charges in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2013. we expect our total gilly hicks restructuring charges to be approximately $90 million and expect to incur these additional charges in the first quarter of 2014. these estimates are based on a number of significant assumptions and could change materially which could adversely affect our financial results. 19 table of contents item 1b. unresolved