item 1a.    risk factors   an investment in our stock involves a number of risks.  before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider all of the risks described in this form 10-k.  if any of the risks discussed in this form 10-k actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  if this were to occur, the trading price of our stock could decline significantly and you may lose all or part of your investment. risks associated with adverse developments in the mortgage finance and credit markets volatile market conditions for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets can result in a significant contraction in liquidity for mortgages and mortgage-related assets, which may adversely affect the value of the assets in which we invest. our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets, including agency mortgage-backed securities, as well as the broader financial markets and the economy generally.  significant adverse changes in financial market conditions can result in a deleveraging of the global financial system and the forced sale of large quantities of mortgage-related and other financial assets.  concerns over economic recession, geopolitical issues, unemployment, the availability and cost of financing, the mortgage market and a declining real estate market may contribute to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and markets.     17     for example, as a result of the  financial market conditions beginning in the summer of  2007, many traditional mortgage investors suffered severe losses in their residential mortgage portfolios and several major market participants failed or have been impaired, resulting in a significant contraction in market liquidity for mortgage-related assets.  this illiquidity negatively affected both the terms and availability of financing for all mortgage-related assets.  further increased volatility and deterioration in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of our agency mortgage-backed securities.  if these conditions persist, institutions from which we seek financing for our investments may tighten their lending standards or become insolvent, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all.  our profitability may be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain cost-effective financing for our investments.  continued adverse developments in the broader residential mortgage market may adversely affect the value of the assets in which we invest. since the summer of 2007, the residential mortgage market in the united states experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions, including defaults, credit losses and liquidity concerns.  certain commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies have announced extensive losses from exposure to the residential mortgage market.  these losses have reduced financial industry capital, leading to reduced liquidity for some institutions.  these factors have impacted investor perception of the risk associated with agency mortgage-backed securities in which we invest.  as a result, values for agency mortgage-backed securities in which we invest have experienced a certain amount of volatility.  further increased volatility and deterioration in the broader residential mortgage and agency mortgage-backed securities markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of our investments.  any decline in the value of our investments, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would likely make it difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, or maintain our compliance with terms of any financing arrangements already in place. the agency mortgage-backed securities in which we invest are classified for accounting purposes as available-for-sale.  all assets classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity.  as a result, a decline in fair values may reduce the book value of our assets.  moreover, if the decline in fair value of an available-for-sale security is other-than-temporarily impaired, such decline will reduce earnings.  if market conditions result in a decline in the fair value of our agency mortgage-backed securities, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. the potential limit or wind down of the role fannie mae and freddie mac play in the mortgage-backed securities market may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.   on february 11, 2011, the u.s department of the treasury (or treasury) issued a white paper titled “reforming america's housing finance market” (or the white paper) that lays out, among other things, proposals to limit or potentially wind down the role that fannie mae and freddie mac play in the mortgage market.  any such proposals,  if enacted, may have broad adverse implications for the economy, the mortgage-backed securities market and our business, operations and financial condition.  we expect such proposals to be the subject of significant discussion and it is not yet possible to determine whether or when such proposals may be enacted, what form any final legislation or policies might take and how proposals, legislation or policies emanating from the white paper may impact the economy, the mortgage-backed securities market and our business, operations and financial condition.  we are evaluating, and will continue to evaluate, the potential impact of the proposals set forth in the white paper.   the conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac, their reliance upon the u.s. government for solvency, and related efforts that may significantly affect fannie mae and freddie mac and their relationship with the u.s. government, may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.   due to increased market concerns about fannie mae and freddie mac’s ability to withstand future credit losses associated with securities held in their investment portfolios, and on which they provide guarantees, without the direct support of the u.s. government congress passed the housing and economic recovery act of 2008, (or the hera).  among other things, the hera established the federal housing finance agency, or fhfa, which has broad regulatory powers over fannie mae and freddie mac.  on september 6, 2008, the fhfa placed fannie mae and freddie mac into conservatorship and, together with the treasury, established a program designed to boost investor confidence in fannie mae’s and freddie mac’s debt and mortgage-backed securities.  as the conservator of fannie mae and freddie mac, the fhfa controls and directs their operations and may (1) take over the assets of and operate fannie mae and freddie mac with all the powers of their shareholders, directors and officers of fannie mae and freddie mac and conduct all business of fannie mae and freddie mac; (2) collect all obligations and money due to fannie mae and freddie mac; (3) perform all functions of fannie mae and freddie mac which are consistent with the conservator’s appointment; (4) preserve and conserve the assets and property of fannie mae and freddie mac; and (5) contract for assistance in fulfilling any function, activity, action or duty of the conservator.     18     in addition to fhfa becoming the conservator of fannie mae and freddie mac, the treasury and fannie mae and freddie mac have entered into preferred stock purchase agreements (or pspas) pursuant to which the treasury has ensured that each of fannie mae and freddie mac maintains a positive net worth. on december 24, 2009, the treasury amended the terms of the pspas to remove the $200 billion per institution limit established under the pspas until the end of 2012.  the treasury also amended the pspas with respect to the requirements for fannie mae and freddie mac to reduce their portfolios.   the problems faced by fannie mae and freddie mac resulting in their placement into federal conservatorship and receipt of significant u.s. government support have sparked debate among some federal policy makers regarding the continued role of the u.s. government in providing liquidity for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities.  with fannie mae’s and freddie mac’s future under debate, the nature of their guarantee obligations could be considerably limited relative to historical measurements.  any changes to the nature of their guarantee obligations could redefine what constitutes an agency mortgage-backed security and could have broad adverse implications for the market and our business, operations and financial condition.  if fannie mae or freddie mac are eliminated, or their structures change radically (i.e., limitation or removal of the guarantee obligation), we may be unable to acquire additional agency mortgage-backed securities.  a reduction in the supply of agency mortgage-backed securities could negatively affect the pricing of agency mortgage-backed securities by reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of agency mortgage-backed securities and our cost of financing that portfolio.   although the treasury previously committed capital to fannie mae and freddie mac through 2012, and in the white paper the treasury committed to providing sufficient capital to enable fannie mae and freddie mac to meet their current and future guarantee obligations, there can be no assurance that these actions will be adequate for their needs. if these actions are inadequate, fannie mae and freddie mac could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations.  furthermore, the current credit support provided by the treasury to fannie mae and freddie mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rates we expect to receive from mortgage-backed securities, and tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our mortgage-backed securities and the cost of financing those assets.   in addition, our existing agency mortgage-backed securities could be materially and adversely impacted.  we rely on our agency mortgage-backed securities as collateral for our financings under our repurchase agreements.  any decline in their value, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all, or to maintain our compliance with the terms of any financing transactions.   future policies that change the relationship between fannie mae and freddie mac and the u.s. government, including those that result in their winding down, nationalization, privatization, or elimination, may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by fannie mae or freddie mac.  as a result, such policies could increase the risk of loss on investments in agency mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by fannie mae and/or freddie mac.  it also is possible that such policies could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade.  all of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.   mortgage loan modification programs, future legislative action and changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing a mortgage with fannie mae, freddie mac or ginnie mae may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the assets in which we invest.   19     the u.s. government, through the federal housing administration, or fha, and the fdic, has implemented programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures including the hope for homeowners act of 2008, which allows certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into fha-insured loans.  the programs may also involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans.  members of the u.s. congress have indicated support for additional legislative relief for homeowners, including an amendment of the bankruptcy laws to permit the modification of mortgage loans in bankruptcy proceedings.  these loan modification programs, future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans, as well as changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing a mortgage with fannie mae, freddie mac or ginnie mae may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debentures.  depending on whether or not we purchased an instrument at a premium or discount, the yield we receive may be positively or negatively impacted by any modification. the u.s. government's pressing for refinancing of certain loans may affect prepayment rates for mortgage loans in mortgage-backed securities. in addition to the increased pressure upon residential mortgage loan investors and servicers to engage in loss mitigation activities, the u.s. government is pressing for refinancing of certain loans, and this encouragement may affect prepayment rates for mortgage loans in agency mortgage-backed securities. to the extent these and other economic stabilization or stimulus efforts are successful in increasing prepayment speeds for residential mortgage loans, such as those in agency mortgage-backed securities, that could potentially harm our income and operating results, particularly in connection with loans or agency mortgage-backed securities purchased at a premium or our interest-only securities. there can be no assurance that the actions of the u.s. government, the federal reserve, the treasury and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect, that our business will benefit from these actions or that further government or market developments will not adversely impact us. in response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and the financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the u.s. government, the federal reserve, the treasury and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken action to attempt to stabilize the financial markets. there can be no assurance that the actions of the u.s. government will have a beneficial impact on the financial markets, including on current levels of volatility.  to the extent the market does not respond favorably to these initiatives or these initiatives do not function as intended, our business may not receive the anticipated positive impact from the legislation.  there can also be no assurance that we will be eligible to participate in any programs established by the u.s. government, or if we are eligible, that we will be able to utilize them successfully or at all.  in addition, because the programs are designed, in part, to provide liquidity to restart the market for certain of our targeted assets, the establishment of these programs may result in increased competition for attractive opportunities in our targeted assets.  it is also possible that our competitors may utilize the programs which would provide them with attractive debt and equity capital funding from the u.s. government. in addition, the u.s. government, the federal reserve, the treasury and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis.  we cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, and such actions could have a dramatic impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities and competition may limit our ability to acquire desirable investments in our target assets and could also affect the pricing of these securities. we operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities.  our profitability depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire our target assets at attractive prices. in acquiring our target assets, we will compete with a variety of institutional investors, including other reits, specialty finance companies, public and private funds (including other funds managed by fidac), commercial and investment banks, commercial finance and insurance companies and other financial institutions.  many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do.  several other reits have recently raised, or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create additional competition for investment opportunities.  some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that may not be available to us, such as funding from the u.s. government, if we are not eligible to participate in programs established by the u.s. government.  many of our competitors are not subject to the operating constraints associated with reit tax compliance or maintenance of an exemption from the investment company act.  in addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us.  furthermore, competition for investments in our target assets may lead to the price of such assets increasing, which may further limit our ability to generate desired returns.  we cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  also, as a result of this competition, desirable investments in our target assets may be limited in the future and we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, as we can provide no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives.     20     certain actions by the u.s. federal reserve could cause a flattening of the yield curve, which could materially adversely affect our business.   in september 2011, the u.s. federal reserve announced “operation twist,” which is a program through which it intends to purchase, by the end of june 2012, $400 billion of u.s. treasury securities with remaining maturities between six and 30 years and sell an equal amount of u.s. treasury securities with remaining maturities of three years or less.  the effect of operation twist could be a flattening in the yield curve, which could result in increased prepayment rates due to lower long-term interest rates and a narrowing of our net interest margin.  please see our risk factor titled “an increase in prepayment rates may adversely affect our profitability.”  consequently, operation twist and any other future securities purchase programs by the u.s. federal reserve could materially adversely affect our business.   the ongoing debt crisis in europe could have an adverse effect on our business.   during the past several years, several large european banks have experienced financial difficulty and have been either rescued by government assistance or by other large european banks.  several european governments have coordinated plans to attempt to shore up their financial sectors through loans, credit guarantees, capital infusions, promises of continued liquidity funding and interest rate cuts.  additionally, other governments of the world’s largest economic countries also implemented interest rate cuts.  there is no assurance that these and other plans and programs will be successful in halting the global credit crisis or in preventing other banks from failing.  if unsuccessful, this could materially adversely affect our financing and operations as well as those of the entire mortgage sector in general.   as the european credit crisis continues, with the problems in other countries such as greece, italy, spain and portugal, there is a growing risk to the financial condition and stability of major european banks.  some of these banks or their u.s. banking subsidiaries have provided financing to us, particularly repurchase agreement financing.  recently, many of the u.s. banking subsidiaries of these major european banks were placed on credit watch.  if the european credit crisis continues to impact these major european banks, there is the possibility that it will also impact the operations of their u.s. banking subsidiaries.  this could adversely affect our financing and operations as well as those of the entire mortgage sector in general.  please also see our risk factor titled “the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.” risks related to our business an increase in the interest payments on our borrowings relative to the interest we earn on our investment securities may adversely affect our profitability. we earn money based upon the spread between the interest payments we earn on our investment securities and the interest payments we must make on our borrowings.  if the interest payments on our borrowings increase relative to the interest we earn on our investment securities, our profitability may be adversely affected. the interest payments on our borrowings may increase relative to the interest we earn on our adjustable-rate interest-earning assets for various reasons discussed in this section.     21       · differences in timing of interest rate adjustments on our investment securities and our borrowings may adversely affect our profitability   we rely primarily on short-term borrowings to acquire investment securities with long-term maturities.  accordingly, if short-term interest rates increase, this may adversely affect our profitability.   some of the investment securities we acquire are adjustable-rate interest-earning assets.  this means that their interest rates may vary over time based upon changes in an objective index, such as:     · libor.  the interest rate that banks in london offer for deposits in london of u.s. dollars.     · treasury rate.  a monthly or weekly average yield of benchmark u.s. treasury securities, as published by the federal reserve board.   these indices generally reflect short-term interest rates.  on december 31, 2011, approximately 9% of our investment securities were adjustable-rate interest-earning assets.   the interest rates on our borrowings similarly vary with changes in an objective index.  nevertheless, the interest rates on our borrowings generally adjust more frequently than the interest rates on our adjustable-rate interest-earning assets.  for example, on december 31, 2011, our adjustable-rate interest-earning assets had a weighted average term to next rate adjustment of 41 months, while our borrowings had a weighted average term of 43 days.  accordingly, in a period of rising interest rates, we could experience a decrease in net income or a net loss because the interest rates on our borrowings adjust faster than the interest rates on our adjustable-rate interest-earning assets.     · interest rate caps on our agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debentures may adversely affect our profitability   our adjustable-rate interest-earning assets are typically subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during any given period.  lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase through maturity of agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debentures.  our borrowings are not subject to similar restrictions.  accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, we could experience a decrease in net income or experience a net loss because the interest rates on our borrowings could increase without limitation while the interest rates on our adjustable-rate interest-earning assets would be limited by caps.     · because we acquire fixed-rate securities, an increase in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability   in a period of rising interest rates, our interest payments could increase while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate mortgage-backed securities would not change.  this would adversely affect our profitability.  on december 31, 2011, approximately 90% of our investment securities were fixed-rate investments.   an increase in prepayment rates may adversely affect our profitability. the agency mortgage-backed securities we acquire are backed by pools of mortgage loans.  we receive payments, generally, from the payments that are made on these underlying mortgage loans.  when borrowers prepay their mortgage loans at rates that are faster-than-expected, this results in prepayments on mortgage-backed securities that are faster than expected.  these faster than expected prepayments may adversely affect our profitability. we often purchase mortgage-backed securities that have a higher interest rate than the market interest rate at the time.  in exchange for this higher interest rate, we must pay a premium over the market value to acquire the security.  in accordance with accounting rules, we amortize this premium over the term of the mortgage-backed security.  if the mortgage-backed security is prepaid in whole or in part prior to its maturity date, however, we must expense all or a part of the remaining unamortized portion of the premium that was prepaid at the time of the prepayment.  this adversely affects our profitability.     22     prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict.  prepayment rates also may be affected by conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans.   we often purchase mortgage-backed securities that have a higher coupon rate than the prevailing market interest rates.  in exchange for a higher coupon rate, we typically pay a premium over par value to acquire these mortgage-backed securities.  in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (or gaap), we amortize the premiums on our mortgage-backed securities over the life of the related mortgage-backed securities.  if the mortgage loans securing these mortgage-backed securities prepay at a more rapid rate than anticipated, we will have to amortize our premiums on an accelerated basis which may adversely affect our profitability.  defaults on mortgage loans underlying agency mortgage-backed securities typically have the same effect as prepayments because of the underlying agency guarantee.  fannie mae and freddie mac significantly increased their purchases of delinquent loans from the pools of mortgages collateralizing their agency mortgage-backed securities beginning in march 2010. as of december 31, 2011, we had net purchase premiums of $3.3 billion, or 3.4% of current par value, on our agency mortgage-backed securities, agency debentures, and corporate debt.   we may seek to reduce prepayment risk by acquiring mortgage-backed securities at a discount.  if a discounted security is prepaid in whole or in part prior to its maturity date, we will earn income equal to the amount of the remaining discount.  this will improve our profitability if the discounted securities are prepaid faster than expected.   we also can acquire mortgage-backed securities that are less affected by prepayments.  for example, we can acquire cmos, a type of mortgage-backed security.  cmos divide a pool of mortgage loans into multiple tranches that allow for shifting of prepayment risks from slower-paying tranches to faster-paying tranches.  this is in contrast to pass-through or pay-through mortgage-backed securities, where all investors share equally in all payments, including all prepayments.  as discussed below, the investment company act of 1940 imposes restrictions on our purchase of cmos.  as of december 31, 2011, approximately 17% of our investment securities were cmos and approximately 83% of our investment securities were pass-through or pay-through securities.   while we seek to minimize prepayment risk to the extent practical, in selecting investments we must balance prepayment risk against other risks and the potential returns of each investment.  no strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment risk.   an increase in interest rates may adversely affect the market value of our investment securities and, therefore, also our book value. increases in interest rates may negatively affect the market value of our investment securities because in a period of rising interest rates, the relative value of interest earning assets we own can be expected to fall and reduce the book value.  in addition, our fixed-rate securities, generally, are more negatively affected by these increases because in a period of rising interest rates, our interest payments could increase while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate mortgage-backed securities would not change.  we reduce our book value by the amount of any decrease in the market value of our investment securities.   failure to procure funding on favorable terms, or at all, would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of shares of our common stock. the current dislocation and weakness in the broader mortgage markets could adversely affect one or more of our potential lenders and could cause one or more of our potential lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing.  this could potentially increase our financing costs and reduce our liquidity.  if one or more major market participants fails or otherwise experiences a major liquidity crisis it could negatively impact the marketability of all fixed income securities, including agency rmbs, and this could negatively impact the value of the securities we acquire, thus reducing our net book value.  furthermore, if any of our potential lenders or any of our lenders are unwilling or unable to provide us with financing, we could be forced to sell our assets at an inopportune time when prices are depressed.     23     the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client.  there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely impact our revenues and earnings. our strategy involves significant leverage. we incur this leverage by borrowing against a substantial portion of the market value of our investment securities.  by incurring this leverage, we can enhance our returns.  nevertheless, this leverage, which is fundamental to our investment strategy, also creates significant risks.     · our leverage may cause substantial losses   because of our significant leverage, we may incur substantial losses if our borrowing costs increase. our borrowing costs may increase for any of the following reasons:     · short-term interest rates increase;     · the market value of our investment securities decreases;     · interest rate volatility increases; or     · the availability of financing in the market decreases.     · our leverage may cause margin calls and defaults and force us to sell assets under adverse market conditions   because of our leverage, a decline in the value of our investment securities may result in our lenders initiating margin calls.  a margin call means that the lender requires us to pledge additional collateral to re-establish the ratio of the value of the collateral to the amount of the borrowing.  our fixed-rate mortgage-backed securities generally are more susceptible to margin calls as increases in interest rates tend to more negatively affect the market value of fixed-rate securities.   if we are unable to satisfy margin calls, our lenders may foreclose on our collateral.  this could force us to sell our investment securities under adverse market conditions.  additionally, in the event of our bankruptcy, our borrowings, which are generally made under repurchase agreements, may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code.  this special treatment would allow the lenders under these agreements to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to liquidate the collateral under these agreements without delay.     · liquidation of collateral may jeopardize our reit status   to continue to qualify as a reit, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. if we are compelled to liquidate our agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debentures, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a reit and our failure to qualify as a reit will have adverse tax consequences.     · we may exceed our target leverage ratios   we seek to maintain a ratio of debt-to-equity of between 8:1 and 12:1.  however, we are not required to stay within this leverage ratio.  we may exceed this ratio by incurring additional debt without increasing the amount of equity we have.  for example, if we increase the amount of borrowings under our master repurchase agreements with our existing or new counterparties, our leverage ratio would increase.  if we increase our debt-to-equity  ratio, the adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations from the types of risks associated with the use of leverage would likely be more severe.     24       · we may not be able to achieve our optimal leverage   we use leverage as a strategy to increase the return to our investors.  however, we may not be able to achieve our desired leverage for any of the following reasons:     · we determine that the leverage would expose us to excessive risk;     · our lenders do not make funding available to us at acceptable rates; or     · our lenders require that we provide additional collateral to cover our borrowings.     · we may incur increased borrowing costs which would adversely affect our profitability   currently, all of our collateralized borrowings are in the form of repurchase agreements.  if the interest rates on these repurchase agreements increase, it would adversely affect our profitability.   our borrowing costs under repurchase agreements generally correspond to short-term interest rates such as libor or a short-term treasury index, plus or minus a margin.  the margins on these borrowings over or under short-term interest rates may vary depending upon:     · the movement of interest rates;     · the availability of financing in the market; or     · the value and liquidity of our investment securities.   if we are unable to renew our borrowings at favorable rates, our profitability may be adversely affected. since we rely primarily on short-term borrowings, our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends not only on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms, but also on our ability to renew or replace on a continuous basis our maturing short-term borrowings.  if we are not able to renew or replace maturing borrowings, we would have to sell our assets under possibly adverse market conditions.   if a counterparty to our repurchase transactions defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying security has declined as of the end of that term, or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement, we will lose money on our repurchase transactions.  when we engage in repurchase transactions, we generally sell securities to lenders (repurchase agreement counterparties) and receive cash from these lenders.  the lenders are obligated to resell the same securities back to us at the end of the term of the transaction.  because the cash we receive from the lender when we initially sell the securities to the lender is less than the value of those securities (this difference is the haircut), if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same securities back to us, we may incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities).  we would also lose money on a repurchase transaction if the value of the underlying securities has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we would have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount.  further, if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the lender can terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us.  repurchase agreements generally contain cross-default provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements could also declare a default.  any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings and thus our cash available for distribution to shareholders.     25     any repurchase agreements that we use to finance our assets may require us to provide additional collateral or pay down debt.  our repurchase agreements involve the risk that the market value of the securities pledged or sold by us to the repurchase agreement counterparty may decline in value, in which case the counterparty may require us to provide additional collateral or to repay all or a portion of the funds advanced.  we may not have additional collateral or the funds available to repay our debt at that time, which would likely result in defaults unless we are able to raise the funds from alternative sources, which we may not be able to achieve on favorable terms or at all.  posting additional collateral would reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets.  if we cannot meet these requirements, the counterparty could accelerate its indebtedness, increase the interest rate on advanced funds and terminate our ability to borrow funds from them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to implement our investment strategy.  in addition, in the event that the counterparty files for bankruptcy or becomes insolvent, our securities may become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, thus depriving us, at least temporarily, of the benefit of these assets.  such an event could restrict our access to bank credit facilities and increase its cost of capital. repurchase agreement counterparties may also require us to maintain a certain amount of cash or set aside assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position that would enhance our ability to satisfy its collateral obligations.  as a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on assets.  in the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition and prospects could deteriorate rapidly.   our hedging strategies expose us to risks. our policies permit us to enter into interest rate swaps, caps and floors and other derivative transactions to help us mitigate our interest rate and prepayment risks described above.  we have used interest rate swaps to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely.  interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; and the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability.   · our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating the risks associated with interest rates   we cannot assure you that our use of derivatives will offset the risks related to changes in interest rates. it is likely that there will be periods in the future during which we will incur losses on our derivative financial instruments that will not be fully offset by gains on our portfolio.  the derivative financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. in addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could significantly increase our risk and lead to material losses. in addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use may not adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility.  moreover, our hedging transactions may result in losses.   · our use of derivatives may expose us to counterparty risks we enter into interest rate swap and cap agreements to hedge risks associated with movements in interest rates.  if a swap counterparty cannot perform under the terms of an interest rate swap, we would not receive payments due under that agreement, we may lose any unrealized gain associated with the interest rate swap, and the hedged liability would cease to be hedged by the interest rate swap.  we may also be at risk for any collateral we have pledged to secure our obligations under the interest rate swap if the counterparty become insolvent or file for bankruptcy.  similarly, if a cap counterparty fails to perform under the terms of the cap agreement, in addition to not receiving payments due under that agreement that would off-sets our interest expense, we would also incur a loss for all remaining unamortized premium paid for that agreement. we may face risks of investing in inverse floating rate securities. we may invest in inverse floaters.  the returns on inverse floaters are inversely related to changes in an interest rate.  generally, income on inverse floaters will decrease when interest rates increase and increase when interest rates decrease.  investments in inverse floaters may subject us to the risks of reduced or eliminated interest payments and losses of principal.  in addition, certain indexed securities and inverse floaters may increase or decrease in value at a greater rate than the underlying interest rate, which effectively leverages our investment in such securities.  as a result, the market value of such securities will generally be more volatile than that of fixed rate securities.     26     our investment strategy may involve credit risk. we may incur losses if there are payment defaults under our investment securities.   to date, substantially all of our mortgage-backed securities have been agency certificates and agency debentures which, although not rated, carry an implied “aaa” rating.  agency certificates are mortgage pass-through certificates where freddie mac, fannie mae or ginnie mae guarantees payments of principal and interest on the certificates.  agency debentures are debt instruments issued by freddie mac, fannie mae, or the fhlb.   even though our agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debentures acquired thus far have been “aaa”, pursuant to our capital investment policy, we have the ability to acquire securities of lower credit quality.  under our policy:     · 75% of our total assets must be high quality mortgage-backed securities and short-term investments.  high quality securities are securities (1) that are rated within one of the two highest rating categories by at least one of the nationally recognized rating agencies, (2) that are unrated but are guaranteed by the united states government or an agency of the united states government, or (3) that are unrated or whose ratings have not been updated but that our management determines are of comparable quality to high quality rated mortgage-backed securities;     · the remaining 25% of total assets, may consist of mortgage-backed securities and other qualified reit real estate assets which are unrated or rated less than high quality, but which are at least “investment grade” (rated “bbb” or better by standard & poor’s corporation (or s&p) or the equivalent by another nationally recognized rating agency) or, if not rated, we determine them to be of comparable credit quality to an investment which is rated “bbb” or better.  in addition, we may directly or indirectly invest part of this remaining 25% of our assets in other types of securities, including without limitation, unrated debt, equity or derivative securities, to the extent consistent with our reit qualification requirements.  the derivative securities in which we invest may include securities representing the right to receive interest only or a disproportionately large amount of interest, as well as inverse floaters, which may have imbedded leverage as part of their structural characteristics; and     · we seek to structure our portfolio to maintain a minimum weighted average rating (including our deemed comparable ratings for unrated mortgage-backed securities) of our mortgage-backed securities of at least single “a” under the s&p rating system and at the comparable level under the other rating systems.   if we acquire securities of lower credit quality, we may incur losses if there are defaults under those securities or if the rating agencies downgrade the credit quality of those securities.   we have not established a minimum dividend payment level. we intend to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year (subject to certain adjustments) is distributed.  this enables us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a reit under the code.  we have not established a minimum dividend payment level and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected for the reasons described in this section.  all distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our reit status and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time.   because of competition, we may not be able to acquire mortgage-backed securities at favorable yields.     27     our net income depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire mortgage-backed securities at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs.  in acquiring mortgage-backed securities, we compete with other reits, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders, government entities and other entities that purchase mortgage-backed securities, many of which have greater financial resources than us.  as a result, in the future, we may not be able to acquire sufficient mortgage-backed securities at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs.   we are dependent on our key personnel   we are dependent on the efforts of our key officers and employees, including michael a. j. farrell, our chairman of the board of directors, chief executive officer and president, wellington j. denahan-norris, our vice chairman, chief operating officer and chief investment officer, and kathryn f. fagan, our chief financial officer and treasurer.  the loss of any of their services could have an adverse effect on our operations. although we have employment agreements with each of them, we cannot assure you they will remain employed with us.  we recently announced mr. farrell is undergoing chemotherapy for cancer.   our reported gaap financial results differ from the taxable income results that impact our dividend distribution requirements and, therefore, our gaap results may not be an accurate indicator of future taxable income and dividend distributions.   generally, the cumulative net income we report over the life of an asset will be the same for gaap and tax purposes, although the timing of this income recognition over the life of the asset could be materially different.  differences exist in the accounting for gaap net income and reit taxable income which can lead to significant variances in the amount and timing of when income and losses are recognized under these two measures.  due to these differences, our reported gaap financial results could materially differ from our determination of taxable income results, which impacts our dividend distribution requirements, and, therefore, our gaap results may not be an accurate indicator of future taxable income and dividend distributions. we and our shareholders are subject to certain tax risks   · our failure to qualify as a reit would have adverse tax consequences   we believe that since 1997 we have qualified for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes.  we plan to continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit.  the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within our control.  for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 75% of our gross income must come from real estate sources and 95% of our gross income must come from real estate sources and certain other sources that are itemized in the reit tax laws.  we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income (determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by excluding any net capital gain).  even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status.  furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service (or irs) might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult or impossible for us to remain qualified as a reit.   if we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates.  also, unless the irs granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first fail to qualify.  if we fail to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments or for distributions to our stockholders.  this would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities.  in addition, the tax law would no longer require us to make distributions to our stockholders.   a reit that fails the quarterly asset tests for one or more quarters will not lose its reit status as a result of such failure if either (i) the failure is regarded as a de minimis failure under standards set out in the internal revenue code, or (ii) the failure is greater than a de minimis failure but is attributable to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.  in the case of a greater than de minimis failure, however, the reit must pay a tax and must remedy the failure within 6 months of the close of the quarter in which the failure was identified.  in addition, the internal revenue code provides relief for failures of other tests imposed as a condition of reit qualification, as long as the failures are attributable to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.  a reit would be required to pay a penalty of $50,000, however, in the case of each failure.     28       · we have certain distribution requirements   as a reit, we must distribute at least 90% of our reit taxable income (determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by excluding any net capital gain).  the required distribution limits the amount we have available for other business purposes, including amounts to fund our growth.  also, it is possible that because of the differences between the time we actually receive revenue or pay expenses and the period we report those items for distribution purposes, we may have to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement.     · we are also subject to other tax liabilities   even if we qualify as a reit, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property.  any of these taxes would reduce our operating cash flow.     · limits on ownership of our common stock could have adverse consequences to you and could limit your opportunity to receive a premium on our stock   to maintain our qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal tax laws to include certain entities). primarily to facilitate maintenance of our qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes, our charter will prohibit ownership, directly or by the attribution provisions of the federal tax laws, by any person of more than 9.8% of the lesser of the number or value of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and will prohibit ownership, directly or by the attribution provisions of the federal tax laws, by any person of more than 9.8% of the lesser of the number or value of the issued and outstanding shares of any class or series of our preferred stock. our board of directors, in its sole and absolute discretion, may waive or modify the ownership limit with respect to one or more persons who would not be treated as “individuals” for purposes of the federal tax laws if it is satisfied, based upon information required to be provided by the party seeking the waiver and upon an opinion of counsel satisfactory to the board of directors, that ownership in excess of this limit will not otherwise jeopardize our status as a reit for federal income tax purposes.   the ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our common stock in connection with a change in control.     · a reit cannot invest more than 25% of its total assets in the stock or securities of one or more taxable reit subsidiaries; therefore, our taxable subsidiaries cannot constitute more than 25% of our total assets   a taxable reit subsidiary is a corporation, other than a reit or a qualified reit subsidiary, in which a reit owns stock and which elects taxable reit subsidiary status.  the term also includes a corporate subsidiary in which the taxable reit subsidiary owns more than a 35% interest.  a reit may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more taxable reit subsidiaries.  a taxable reit subsidiary may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent reit.  overall, at the close of any calendar quarter, no more than 25% of the value of a reit’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more taxable reit subsidiaries.   the stock and securities of our taxable reit subsidiaries are expected to represent less than 25% of the value of our total assets.  furthermore, we intend to monitor the value of our investments in the stock and securities of our taxable reit subsidiaries to ensure compliance with the above-described 25% limitation.  we cannot assure you, however, that we will always be able to comply with the 25% limitation so as to maintain reit status.     29       · taxable reit subsidiaries are subject to tax at the regular corporate rates, are not required to distribute dividends, and the amount of dividends a taxable reit subsidiary can pay to its parent reit may be limited by reit gross income tests   a taxable reit subsidiary must pay income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns.  our taxable reit subsidiaries will pay corporate income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us.  such income, however, is not required to be distributed.   moreover, the annual gross income tests that must be satisfied to ensure reit qualification may limit the amount of dividends that we can receive from our taxable reit subsidiaries and still maintain our reit status.  generally, not more than 25% of our gross income can be derived from non-real estate related sources, such as dividends from a taxable reit subsidiary.  if, for any taxable year, the dividends we received from our taxable reit subsidiaries, when added to our other items of non-real estate related income, represented more than 25% of our total gross income for the year, we could be denied reit status, unless we were able to demonstrate, among other things, that our failure of the gross income test was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.   the limitations imposed by the reit gross income tests may impede our ability to distribute assets from our taxable reit subsidiaries to us in the form of dividends.  certain asset transfers may, therefore, have to be structured as purchase and sale transactions upon which our taxable reit subsidiaries recognize taxable gain.     · if interest accrues on indebtedness owed by a taxable reit subsidiary to its parent reit at a rate in excess of a commercially reasonable rate, or if transactions between a reit and a taxable reit subsidiary are entered into on other than arm’s-length terms, the reit may be subject to a penalty tax   if interest accrues on an indebtedness owed by a taxable reit subsidiary to its parent reit at a rate in excess of a commercially reasonable rate, the reit is subject to tax at a rate of 100% on the excess of (i) interest payments made by a taxable reit subsidiary to its parent reit over (ii) the amount of interest that would have been payable had interest accrued on the indebtedness at a commercially reasonable rate.  a tax at a rate of 100% is also imposed on any transaction between a taxable reit subsidiary and its parent reit to the extent the transaction gives rise to deductions to the taxable reit subsidiary that are in excess of the deductions that would have been allowable had the transaction been entered into on arm’s-length terms.  we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our taxable reit subsidiaries in an effort to ensure that we do not become subject to these taxes.  we may not be able to avoid application of these taxes.   risks of ownership of our common stock   we may change our policies without stockholder approval.   our board of directors and management determine all of our policies, including our investment, financing and distribution policies. they may amend or revise these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders. policy changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common stock or our ability to pay dividends or distributions.   our governing documents and maryland law impose limitations on the acquisition of our common stock and changes in control that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us.   maryland business combination act   the maryland general corporation law establishes special requirements for “business combinations” between a maryland corporation and “interested stockholders” unless exemptions are applicable.  an interested stockholder is any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our then-outstanding voting stock.  among other things, the law prohibits for a period of five years a merger and other similar transactions between us and an interested stockholder unless the board of directors approved the transaction prior to the party’s becoming an interested stockholder.  the five-year period runs from the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder.  the law also requires a super majority stockholder vote for such transactions after the end of the five-year period.  this means that the transaction must be approved by at least:     30       · 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares; and     · two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares other than shares held by the interested stockholder or an affiliate of the interested stockholder with whom the business combination is to be effected.   as permitted by the maryland general corporation law, we have elected not to be governed by the maryland business combination statute.  we made this election by opting out of this statute in our articles of incorporation.  if, however, we amend our articles of incorporation to opt back in to the statute, the business combination statute could have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us and of increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our stockholders’ best interests.   maryland control share acquisition act   maryland law provides that “control shares” of a maryland corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of the stockholders.  two-thirds of the shares eligible to vote must vote in favor of granting the “control shares” voting rights.  “control shares” are shares of stock that, taken together with all other shares of stock the acquirer previously acquired, would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power:     · one-tenth or more but less than one third of all voting power;     · one-third or more but less than a majority of all voting power; or     · a majority or more of all voting power.   control shares do not include shares of stock the acquiring person is entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval.  a “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain exceptions.   if a person who has made (or proposes to make) a control share acquisition satisfies certain conditions (including agreeing to pay expenses), he may compel our board of directors to call a special meeting of stockholders to consider the voting rights of the shares.  if such a person makes no request for a meeting, we have the option to present the question at any stockholders’ meeting.   if voting rights are not approved at a meeting of stockholders then, subject to certain conditions and limitations, we may redeem any or all of the control shares (except those for which voting rights have previously been approved) for fair value.  we will determine the fair value of the shares, without regard to voting rights, as of the date of either:     · the last control share acquisition; or     · the meeting where stockholders considered and did not approve voting rights of the control shares.   if voting rights for control shares are approved at a stockholders’ meeting and the acquirer becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote, all other stockholders may obtain rights as objecting stockholders and, thereunder, exercise appraisal rights.  this means that you would be able to force us to redeem your stock for fair value.  under maryland law, the fair value may not be less than the highest price per share paid in the control share acquisition.  furthermore, certain limitations otherwise applicable to the exercise of dissenters’ rights would not apply in the context of a control share acquisition.  the control share acquisition statute would not apply to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if we were a party to the transaction.  the control share acquisition statute could have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us and of increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our stockholders’ best interests.     31     the market price and trading volume of our shares of common stock may be volatile and issuances of large amounts of shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.   if we issue a significant number of shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock in a short period of time, there could be a dilution of the existing common stock and a decrease in the market price of the common stock.   the market price of our shares of common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. in addition, the trading volume in our shares of common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. we cannot assure you that the market price of our shares of common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our shares of common stock include those set forth under “special note regarding forward-looking statements” as well as:     ● actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or business prospects;         ● changes in our earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry;         ● an inability to meet or exceed securities analysts' estimates or expectations;         ● increases in market interest rates;         ● hedging or arbitrage trading activity in our shares of common stock;         ● capital commitments;         ● changes in market valuations of similar companies;         ● adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future;         ● additions or departures of management personnel;         ● actions by institutional shareholders;         ● speculation in the press or investment community;         ● changes in our distribution policy;         ● general market and economic conditions; and         ● future sales of our shares of common stock or securities convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, our shares of common stock.   holders of our shares of common stock will be subject to the risk of volatile market prices and wide fluctuations in the market price of our shares of common stock.  these factors may cause the market price of our shares of common stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. it is impossible to assure you that the market prices of our shares of common stock will not fall in the future.     32   there may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   on june 23, 2011, our shareholders approved an amendment to our charter to increase the number of authorized shares of capital stock from 1,000,000,000 shares to 2,000,000,000 shares, consisting of 1,987,987,500 shares classified as common stock, 7,412,500 shares classified as 7.875% series a cumulative redeemable preferred stock and 4,600,000 shares classified as 6.00% series b cumulative convertible preferred stock.  the issuance of additional shares of our common stock and in connection with conversions of our outstanding convertible senior notes, or other future issuances convertible securities, including outstanding options and warrants, or otherwise, will dilute the ownership interest of our common stockholders.   sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market, or any hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving our common stock, could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.  we cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock.   the repurchase right in our convertible senior notes triggered by a fundamental change could discourage a potential acquiror.   if we undergo certain fundamental changes, such as the acquisition of 50% of the voting power of all shares of our common equity entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, holders of our convertible senior notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, the repurchase date.  we will pay for all notes so repurchased with shares of our common stock using a price per share equal to the average daily volume-weighted average price of our common stock for the 20 consecutive trading days ending on the trading day immediately prior to the occurrence of the fundamental change.  the issuance of these shares of common stock upon certain fundamental changes could discourage a potential acquiror.   broad market fluctuations could negatively impact the market price of our shares of common stock.   the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies in industries similar or related to ours and that have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance. these broad market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our shares of common stock. furthermore, our operating results and prospects may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or may be lower than those of companies with comparable market capitalizations, which could lead to a material decline in the market price of our shares of common stock.   regulatory risks   loss of investment company act exemption would adversely affect us.   we intend to conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the investment company act of 1940, as amended (the “investment company act”).  if we fail to qualify for this exemption, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would be unable to conduct our business as we currently conduct it.   we currently rely on the exemption from registration provided by section 3(c)(5)(c) of the investment company act.  section 3(c)(5)(c) as interpreted by the staff of the sec, requires us to invest at least 55% of our assets in “mortgages and other liens on and interest in real estate” (or qualifying real estate assets) and at least 80% of our assets in qualifying real estate assets plus real estate related assets.  the assets that we acquire, therefore, are limited by the provisions of the investment company act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the investment company act.     33     we rely on an interpretation that “whole pool certificates” that are issued or guaranteed by fannie mae, freddie mac or ginnie mae (or agency whole pool certificates) are qualifying real estate assets under section 3(c)(5)(c).  this interpretation was promulgated by the sec staff in a no-action letter over 30 years ago, was reaffirmed by the sec in 1992 and has been commonly relied on by mortgage reits.   on august 31, 2011, the sec issued a concept release titled “companies engaged in the business of acquiring mortgages and mortgage-related instruments” (sec release no. ic-29778).  under the concept release, the sec is reviewing interpretive issues related to the section 3(c)(5)(c) exemption.  among other things, the sec is requesting comments on whether it should revisit whether agency whole pool certificates may be treated as interests in real estate (and presumably qualifying real estate assets) and whether companies, such as us, whose primary business consists of investing in agency whole pool certificates are the type of entities that congress intended to be encompassed by the exclusion provided by section 3(c)(5)(c).  the potential outcomes of the sec’s actions are unclear as is the sec’s timetable for its review and actions.   if the sec determines that any of these securities are not qualifying real estate assets or real estate related assets, adopts a contrary interpretation with respect to agency whole pool certificates or otherwise believes we do not satisfy the exemption under section 3(c)(5)(c), we could be required to restructure our activities or sell certain of our assets. the net effect of these factors will be to lower our net interest income.  if we fail to qualify for exemption from registration as an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would not be able to conduct our business as described.  our business will be materially and adversely affected if we fail to qualify for this exemption.   compliance with proposed and recently enacted changes in securities laws and regulations increases our costs.   the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and rules and regulations promulgated by the sec and the new york stock exchange have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices.  we believe that these rules and regulations will make it more costly for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage.  these rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of management and our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee.   the dodd-frank act contains many regulatory changes and calls for future rulemaking that may affect our business, including, but not limited to  resolutions involving derivatives, risk-retention in securitizations and short-term financings.  we are evaluating, and will continue to evaluate the potential impact of regulatory change under the dodd-frank act.   computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks, and spamming could harm our business and results of operations.   computer malware, viruses, and computer hacking and phishing attacks have become more prevalent in our industry and may occur on our systems in the future.  we rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems.  though it is difficult to determine what, if any, harm may directly result from any specific interruption or attack or any failure to maintain performance, reliability and security of our technical infrastructure.  as a result any such computer malware, viruses, and computer hacking and phishing attacks may harm our operations.   item 1b.   unresolved