item 1a.   risk factors   an investment in our stock involves a number of risks.  before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider all of the risks described in this form 10-k.  if any of the risks discussed in this form 10-k actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  if this were to occur, the trading price of our stock could decline significantly and you may lose all or part of your investment. risks associated with adverse developments in the mortgage finance and credit markets volatile market conditions for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets can result in a significant contraction in liquidity for mortgages and mortgage-related assets, which may adversely affect the value of the assets in which we invest. our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets, including agency mortgage-backed securities, as well as the broader financial markets and the economy generally.  significant adverse changes in financial market conditions can result in a deleveraging of the global financial system and the forced sale of large quantities of mortgage-related and other financial assets.  concerns over economic recession, geopolitical issues, unemployment, the availability and cost of financing, the mortgage market and a declining real estate market may contribute to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and markets. for example, as a result of the  financial market conditions beginning in the summer of  2007, many traditional mortgage investors suffered severe losses in their residential mortgage portfolios and several major market participants failed or have been impaired, resulting in a significant contraction in market liquidity for mortgage-related assets.  this illiquidity negatively affected both the terms and availability of financing for all mortgage-related assets.  further increased volatility and deterioration in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of our agency mortgage-backed securities.  if these conditions persist, institutions from which we seek financing for our investments may tighten their lending standards or become insolvent, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all.  our profitability may be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain cost-effective financing for our investments.  continued adverse developments in the broader residential mortgage market may adversely affect the value of the assets in which we invest. since the summer of 2007, the residential mortgage market in the united states experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions, including defaults, credit losses and liquidity concerns.  these factors have impacted investor perception of the risk associated with agency mortgage-backed securities in which we invest.  as a result, values for agency mortgage-backed securities in which we invest have experienced a certain amount of volatility.  further increased volatility and deterioration in the broader residential mortgage and agency mortgage-backed securities markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of our investments.  any decline in the value of our investments, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would likely make it difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, or maintain our compliance with terms of any financing arrangements already in place. the agency mortgage-backed securities in which we invest are classified for accounting purposes as available-for-sale.  all assets classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity.  a decline in fair values may reduce the book value of our assets.  moreover, if the decline in fair value of an available-for-sale security is other-than-temporarily impaired, such decline will reduce earnings.  if market conditions result in a decline in the fair value of our agency mortgage-backed securities, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. the potential limit or wind down of the role fannie mae and freddie mac play in the mortgage-backed securities market may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.     23     on february 11, 2011, the u.s department of the treasury (or treasury) issued a white paper titled “reforming america's housing finance market” (or the white paper) that lays out, among other things, proposals to limit or potentially wind down the role that fannie mae and freddie mac play in the mortgage market.  any such proposals,  if enacted, may have broad adverse implications for the economy, the mortgage-backed securities market and our business, operations and financial condition.  we expect such proposals to be the subject of significant discussion and it is not yet possible to determine whether or when such proposals may be enacted, what form any final legislation or policies might take and how proposals, legislation or policies emanating from the white paper may impact the economy, the mortgage-backed securities market and our business, operations and financial condition.  we are evaluating, and will continue to evaluate, the potential impact of the proposals set forth in the white paper.   the conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac, their reliance upon the u.s. government for solvency, and related efforts that may significantly affect fannie mae and freddie mac and their relationship with the u.s. government, may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.   due to increased market concerns about fannie mae and freddie mac’s ability to withstand future credit losses associated with securities held in their investment portfolios, and on which they provide guarantees, without the direct support of the u.s. government congress passed the housing and economic recovery act of 2008, (or the hera).  among other things, the hera established the federal housing finance agency, or fhfa, which has broad regulatory powers over fannie mae and freddie mac.  on september 6, 2008, the fhfa placed fannie mae and freddie mac into conservatorship and, together with the treasury, established a program designed to boost investor confidence in fannie mae’s and freddie mac’s debt and mortgage-backed securities.  as the conservator of fannie mae and freddie mac, the fhfa controls and directs their operations and may (1) take over the assets of and operate fannie mae and freddie mac with all the powers of their shareholders, directors and officers of fannie mae and freddie mac and conduct all business of fannie mae and freddie mac; (2) collect all obligations and money due to fannie mae and freddie mac; (3) perform all functions of fannie mae and freddie mac which are consistent with the conservator’s appointment; (4) preserve and conserve the assets and property of fannie mae and freddie mac; and (5) contract for assistance in fulfilling any function, activity, action or duty of the conservator.   in addition to fhfa becoming the conservator of fannie mae and freddie mac, the treasury and fannie mae and freddie mac have entered into preferred stock purchase agreements (or pspas) pursuant to which the treasury has ensured that each of fannie mae and freddie mac maintains a positive net worth. on december 24, 2009, the treasury amended the terms of the pspas to remove the $200 billion per institution limit established under the pspas until the end of 2012.  the treasury also amended the pspas with respect to the requirements for fannie mae and freddie mac to reduce their portfolios. on august 17, 2012, the pspas were further amended to, among other things, change the method for calculating the amount of dividends fannie mae and freddie mac are required to pay the treasury and to re-establish the $200 billion limit per institution beginning in 2013.   the problems faced by fannie mae and freddie mac resulting in their placement into federal conservatorship and receipt of significant u.s. government support have sparked debate among some federal policy makers regarding the continued role of the u.s. government in providing liquidity for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities.  with fannie mae’s and freddie mac’s future under debate, the nature of their guarantee obligations could be considerably limited relative to historical measurements.  any changes to the nature of their guarantee obligations could redefine what constitutes an agency mortgage-backed security and could have broad adverse implications for the market and our business, operations and financial condition.  if fannie mae or freddie mac are eliminated, or their structures change radically (i.e., limitation or removal of the guarantee obligation), we may be unable to acquire additional agency mortgage-backed securities.  a reduction in the supply of agency mortgage-backed securities could negatively affect the pricing of agency mortgage-backed securities by reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of agency mortgage-backed securities and our cost of financing that portfolio.   although the treasury previously committed capital to fannie mae and freddie mac through 2012, and in the white paper the treasury committed to providing sufficient capital to enable fannie mae and freddie mac to meet their current and future guarantee obligations, there can be no assurance that these actions will be adequate for their needs. if these actions are inadequate, fannie mae and freddie mac could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations.  furthermore, the current credit support provided by the treasury to fannie mae and freddie mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rates we expect to receive from mortgage-backed securities, and tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our mortgage-backed securities and the cost of financing those assets.     24     in addition, our existing agency mortgage-backed securities could be materially and adversely impacted.  we rely on our agency mortgage-backed securities as collateral for our financings under our repurchase agreements.  any decline in their value, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all, or to maintain our compliance with the terms of any financing transactions.   future policies that change the relationship between fannie mae and freddie mac and the u.s. government, including those that result in their winding down, nationalization, privatization, or elimination, may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by fannie mae or freddie mac.  as a result, such policies could increase the risk of loss on investments in agency mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by fannie mae and/or freddie mac.  it also is possible that such policies could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade.  all of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.   mortgage loan modification programs, future legislative action and changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing a mortgage with fannie mae, freddie mac or ginnie mae may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the assets in which we invest. the u.s. government, through the federal housing administration, or fha, and the fdic, has implemented programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures including the hope for homeowners act of 2008, which allows certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into fha-insured loans.  the programs may also involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans.  these loan modification programs, including future legislative or regulatory actions and amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans, as well as changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing a mortgage with fannie mae, freddie mac or ginnie mae may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debentures.  depending on whether or not we purchased an instrument at a premium or discount, the yield we receive may be positively or negatively impacted by any modification. the u.s. government's efforts to encourage for refinancing of certain loans may affect prepayment rates for mortgage loans in mortgage-backed securities. in addition to the increased pressure upon residential mortgage loan investors and servicers to engage in loss mitigation activities, the u.s. government is pressing for refinancing of certain loans, and this encouragement may affect prepayment rates for mortgage loans in agency mortgage-backed securities. to the extent these and other economic stabilization or stimulus efforts are successful in increasing prepayment speeds for residential mortgage loans, such as those in agency mortgage-backed securities, that could potentially have a negative impact on our income and operating results, particularly in connection with loans or agency mortgage-backed securities purchased at a premium or our interest-only securities. we operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities and competition may limit our ability to acquire desirable investments in our target assets and could also affect the pricing of these securities. we operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities.  our profitability depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire our target assets at attractive prices. in acquiring our target assets, we will compete with a variety of institutional investors, including other reits, specialty finance companies, public and private funds (including other funds managed by fidac), government entities, commercial and investment banks, commercial finance and insurance companies and other financial institutions.  many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do.  several other reits have recently raised, or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create additional competition for investment opportunities.  some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that may not be available to us, such as funding from the u.s. government, if we are not eligible to participate in programs established by the u.s. government.  many of our competitors are not subject to the operating constraints associated with reit tax compliance or maintenance of an exemption from the investment company act.  in addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us.  furthermore, competition for investments in our target assets may lead to the price of such assets increasing, which may further limit our ability to generate desired returns.  we cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  also, as a result of this competition, desirable investments in our target assets may be limited in the future and we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, as we can provide no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives.     25     purchases and sales of agency securities by the federal reserve may adversely affect the price and return associated with agency mortgage-backed securities on september 13, 2012, the federal reserve announced their third quantitative easing program, commonly known as qe3, and extended their guidance to keep the federal funds rate at “exceptional low levels” through at least mid-2015.  qe3 entails large-scale purchases of agency mortgage-backed securities at the pace of $40 billion per month in addition to the federal reserve's existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities into new agency mortgage-backed securities purchases. while we cannot predict the impact of this program or any future actions by the federal reserve on the prices and liquidity of agency mortgage-backed securities, we expect that during periods in which the federal reserve purchases significant volumes of agency mortgage-backed securities, yields on agency mortgage-backed securities will be lower and refinancing volumes will be higher than would have been absent their large scale purchases. as a result, returns on agency mortgage-backed securities may be adversely affected. there is also a risk that as the federal reserve reduces their purchases of agency mortgage-backed securities or if they decide to sell some or all of their holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities, the pricing of our agency mortgage-backed securities portfolio may be adversely affected.   risks related to our business an increase in the interest payments on our borrowings relative to the interest we earn on our investment securities may adversely affect our profitability. we earn money based upon the spread between the interest payments we earn on our investment securities and the interest payments we must make on our borrowings.  if the interest payments on our borrowings increase relative to the interest we earn on our investment securities, our profitability may be adversely affected.     ● differences in timing of interest rate adjustments on our investment securities and our borrowings may adversely affect our profitability   we rely primarily on short-term borrowings to acquire investment securities with long-term maturities.  accordingly, if short-term interest rates increase, this may adversely affect our profitability.   some of the investment securities we acquire are adjustable-rate interest-earning assets.  this means that their interest rates may vary over time based upon changes in an objective index, such as:     ● libor.  the interest rate that banks in london offer for deposits in london of u.s. dollars.     ● treasury rate.  a monthly or weekly average yield of benchmark u.s. treasury securities, as published by the federal reserve board.   these indices generally reflect short-term interest rates.  on december 31, 2012, approximately 7% of our investment securities were adjustable-rate interest-earning assets.   the interest rates on our borrowings similarly vary with changes in an objective index.  nevertheless, the interest rates on our borrowings generally adjust more frequently than the interest rates on our adjustable-rate interest-earning assets.  for example, on december 31, 2012, our adjustable-rate interest-earning assets had a weighted average term to next rate adjustment of 35 months, while our borrowings had a weighted average term of 197 days.  accordingly, in a period of rising interest rates, we could experience a decrease in net income or a net loss because the interest rates on our borrowings adjust faster than the interest rates on our adjustable-rate interest-earning assets.     26       ● interest rate caps on our agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debentures may adversely affect our profitability   our adjustable-rate interest-earning assets are typically subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during any given period.  lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase through maturity of agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debentures.  our borrowings are not subject to similar restrictions.  accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, we could experience a decrease in net income or experience a net loss because the interest rates on our borrowings could increase without limitation while the interest rates on our adjustable-rate interest-earning assets would be limited by caps.     ● because we acquire fixed-rate securities, an increase in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability   in a period of rising interest rates, our interest payments could increase while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate mortgage-backed securities would not change.  this would adversely affect our profitability.  on december 31, 2012, approximately 93% of our investment securities were fixed-rate investments.   an increase in prepayment rates may adversely affect our profitability. the agency mortgage-backed securities we acquire are backed by pools of mortgage loans.  we receive payments, generally, from the payments that are made on these underlying mortgage loans.  when borrowers prepay their mortgage loans at rates that are faster-than-expected, this results in prepayments on mortgage-backed securities that are faster than expected.  these faster than expected prepayments may adversely affect our profitability. we often purchase mortgage-backed securities that have a higher interest rate than the market interest rate at the time.  in exchange for this higher interest rate, we must pay a premium over the market value to acquire the security.  in accordance with accounting rules, we amortize this premium over the term of the mortgage-backed security.  if the mortgage-backed security is prepaid in whole or in part prior to its maturity date, however, we must expense all or a part of the remaining unamortized portion of the premium that was prepaid at the time of the prepayment.  this adversely affects our profitability.   prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict.  prepayment rates also may be affected by conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans.   we often purchase mortgage-backed securities that have a higher coupon rate than the prevailing market interest rates.  in exchange for a higher coupon rate, we typically pay a premium over par value to acquire these mortgage-backed securities.  in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (or gaap), we amortize the premiums on our mortgage-backed securities over the life of the related mortgage-backed securities.  if the mortgage loans securing these mortgage-backed securities prepay at a more rapid rate than anticipated, we will have to amortize our premiums on an accelerated basis which may adversely affect our profitability.  defaults on mortgage loans underlying agency mortgage-backed securities typically have the same effect as prepayments because of the underlying agency guarantee.  as of december 31, 2012, we had a net premium of $5.8 billion, or 4.9% of current par value, on our agency mortgage-backed securities, agency debentures, and corporate debt.   we may seek to reduce prepayment risk by acquiring mortgage-backed securities at a discount.  if a discounted security is prepaid in whole or in part prior to its maturity date, we will earn income equal to the amount of the remaining discount.  this will improve our profitability if the discounted securities are prepaid faster than expected.     27     we also can acquire mortgage-backed securities that are less affected by prepayments.  for example, we can acquire cmos, a type of mortgage-backed security.  cmos divide a pool of mortgage loans into multiple tranches that allow for shifting of prepayment risks from slower-paying tranches to faster-paying tranches.  this is in contrast to pass-through or pay-through mortgage-backed securities, where all investors share equally in all payments, including all prepayments.  as discussed below, the investment company act of 1940 imposes restrictions on our purchase of cmos.   while we seek to minimize prepayment risk to the extent practical, in selecting investments we must balance prepayment risk against other risks and the potential returns of each investment.  no strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment risk.   an increase in interest rates may adversely affect the market value of our investment securities and, therefore, also our book value. increases in interest rates may negatively affect the market value of our investment securities because in a period of rising interest rates, the relative value of interest earning assets we own can be expected to fall and reduce the book value.  in addition, our fixed-rate securities, generally, are more negatively affected by these increases because in a period of rising interest rates, our interest payments could increase while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate mortgage-backed securities would not change.  we reduce our book value by the amount of any decrease in the market value of our investment securities.   failure to procure funding on favorable terms, or at all, would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of shares of our common stock. the recent dislocation and weakness in the broader mortgage markets could adversely affect one or more of our potential lenders and could cause one or more of our potential lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing.  this could potentially increase our financing costs and reduce our liquidity.  if one or more major market participants fails or otherwise experiences a major liquidity crisis it could negatively impact the marketability of all fixed income securities, including agency rmbs, and this could negatively impact the value of the securities we acquire, thus reducing our net book value.  furthermore, if any of our potential lenders or any of our lenders are unwilling or unable to provide us with financing, we could be forced to sell our assets at an inopportune time when prices are depressed. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client.  there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely impact our revenues and earnings. our strategy involves significant leverage. we incur this leverage by borrowing against a substantial portion of the market value of our investment securities.  by incurring this leverage, we can enhance our returns.  nevertheless, this leverage, which is fundamental to our investment strategy, also creates significant risks.     ● our leverage may cause substantial losses   because of our significant leverage, we may incur substantial losses if our borrowing costs increase. our borrowing costs may increase for any of the following reasons:     ● short-term interest rates increase;     ● the market value of our investment securities decreases;     28       ● interest rate volatility increases; or     ● the availability of financing in the market decreases.     ● our leverage may cause margin calls and defaults and force us to sell assets under adverse market conditions   because of our leverage, a decline in the value of our investment securities may result in our lenders initiating margin calls.  a margin call means that the lender requires us to pledge additional collateral to re-establish the ratio of the value of the collateral to the amount of the borrowing.  our fixed-rate mortgage-backed securities generally are more susceptible to margin calls as increases in interest rates tend to more negatively affect the market value of fixed-rate securities.   if we are unable to satisfy margin calls, our lenders may foreclose on our collateral.  this could force us to sell our investment securities under adverse market conditions.  additionally, in the event of our bankruptcy, our borrowings, which are generally made under repurchase agreements, may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code.  this special treatment would allow the lenders under these agreements to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to liquidate the collateral under these agreements without delay.     ● liquidation of collateral may jeopardize our reit status   to continue to qualify as a reit, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. if we are compelled to liquidate our agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debentures, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a reit and our failure to qualify as a reit will have adverse tax consequences.     ● we may exceed our target leverage ratios   we generally expect to maintain a ratio of debt-to-equity of less than 12:1.  however, we are not required to stay below this leverage ratio.  we may exceed this ratio by incurring additional debt without increasing the amount of equity we have.  for example, if we increase the amount of borrowings under our master repurchase agreements with our existing or new counterparties, our leverage ratio would increase.  if we increase our debt-to-equity  ratio, the adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations from the types of risks associated with the use of leverage would likely be more severe.     ● we may not be able to achieve our optimal leverage   we use leverage as a strategy to increase the return to our investors.  however, we may not be able to achieve our desired leverage for any of the following reasons:     ● we determine that the leverage would expose us to excessive risk;     ● our lenders do not make funding available to us at acceptable rates; or     ● our lenders require that we provide additional collateral to cover our borrowings.     ● we may incur increased borrowing costs which would adversely affect our profitability   currently, all of our collateralized borrowings are in the form of repurchase agreements.  if the interest rates on these repurchase agreements increase, it would adversely affect our profitability.   our borrowing costs under repurchase agreements generally correspond to short-term interest rates such as libor or a short-term treasury index, plus or minus a margin.  the margins on these borrowings over or under short-term interest rates may vary depending upon:     29       ● the movement of interest rates;     ● the availability of financing in the market; or     ● the value and liquidity of our investment securities.   if we are unable to renew our borrowings at favorable rates, our profitability may be adversely affected. since we rely primarily on short-term borrowings, our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends not only on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms, but also on our ability to renew or replace on a continuous basis our maturing short-term borrowings.  if we are not able to renew or replace maturing borrowings, we would have to sell our assets under possibly adverse market conditions.   if a counterparty to our repurchase transactions defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying security has declined as of the end of that term, or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement, we will lose money on our repurchase transactions.  when we engage in repurchase transactions, we generally sell securities to lenders (repurchase agreement counterparties) and receive cash from these lenders.  the lenders are obligated to resell the same securities back to us at the end of the term of the transaction.  because the cash we receive from the lender when we initially sell the securities to the lender is less than the value of those securities (this difference is the haircut), if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same securities back to us, we may incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities).  we would also lose money on a repurchase transaction if the value of the underlying securities has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we would have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount.  further, if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the lender can terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us.  repurchase agreements generally contain cross-default provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements could also declare a default.  any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings and thus our cash available for distribution to shareholders.   any repurchase agreements that we use to finance our assets may require us to provide additional collateral or pay down debt.  our repurchase agreements involve the risk that the market value of the securities pledged or sold by us to the repurchase agreement counterparty may decline in value, in which case the counterparty may require us to provide additional collateral or to repay all or a portion of the funds advanced.  we may not have additional collateral or the funds available to repay our debt at that time, which would likely result in defaults unless we are able to raise the funds from alternative sources, which we may not be able to achieve on favorable terms or at all.  posting additional collateral would reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets.  if we cannot meet these requirements, the counterparty could accelerate its indebtedness, increase the interest rate on advanced funds and terminate our ability to borrow funds from them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to implement our investment strategy.  in addition, in the event that the counterparty files for bankruptcy or becomes insolvent, our securities may become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, thus depriving us, at least temporarily, of the benefit of these assets.  such an event could restrict our access to bank credit facilities and increase its cost of capital. repurchase agreement counterparties may also require us to maintain a certain amount of cash or set aside assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position that would enhance our ability to satisfy its collateral obligations.  as a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on assets.  in the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition and prospects could deteriorate rapidly.   our hedging strategies expose us to risks. our policies permit us to enter into interest rate swaps, caps and floors, interest rate swaptions, and other derivative transactions to help us mitigate our interest rate and prepayment risks described above.  we have used interest rate swaps to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks as well as options to enter into interest rate swaps (commonly referred to as interest rate swaptions).  we may also purchase or sell to-be-announced forward contracts (commonly referred to as tbas), specified agency securities on a forward basis, purchase or write put or call options on tba securities and invest in other types of mortgage derivatives, such as interest-only securities.  no hedging strategy can protect us completely.  interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; and the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability.     30       ● our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating the risks associated with interest rates   we cannot assure you that our use of derivatives will offset the risks related to changes in interest rates. it is likely that there will be periods in the future during which we will incur losses on our derivative financial instruments that will not be fully offset by gains on our portfolio.  the derivative financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. in addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could significantly increase our risk and lead to material losses. in addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use may not adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility.  moreover, our hedging transactions may result in losses.   ● our use of derivatives may expose us to counterparty risks we enter into interest rate swap and cap agreements to hedge risks associated with movements in interest rates.  if a swap counterparty cannot perform under the terms of an interest rate swap, we would not receive payments due under that agreement, we may lose any unrealized gain associated with the interest rate swap, and the hedged liability would cease to be hedged by the interest rate swap.  we may also be at risk for any collateral we have pledged to secure our obligations under the interest rate swap if the counterparty become insolvent or file for bankruptcy.  similarly, if a cap counterparty fails to perform under the terms of the cap agreement, in addition to not receiving payments due under that agreement that would off-set our interest expense, we would also incur a loss for all remaining unamortized premium paid for that agreement. we may face risks of investing in inverse floating rate securities. we may invest in inverse floaters.  the returns on inverse floaters are inversely related to changes in an interest rate.  generally, income on inverse floaters will decrease when interest rates increase and increase when interest rates decrease.  investments in inverse floaters may subject us to the risks of reduced or eliminated interest payments and losses of premium paid.  in addition, certain indexed securities and inverse floaters may increase or decrease in value at a greater rate than the underlying interest rate, which effectively leverages our investment in such securities.  as a result, the market value of such securities will generally be more volatile than that of fixed rate securities. our investment strategy may involve credit risk. to date over 90% of our total assets have consisted of agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debentures which, although not rated, carry an implied “aaa” rating.  agency certificates are mortgage pass-through certificates where freddie mac, fannie mae or ginnie mae guarantees payments of principal and interest on the certificates.  agency debentures are debt instruments issued by freddie mac, fannie mae, or the fhlb.   even though our agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debentures acquired thus far have been “aaa”, pursuant to our capital investment policy, we have the ability to acquire securities of lower credit quality.  under our policy:     ● 75% of our total assets must be high quality mortgage-backed securities and short-term investments.  high quality securities are securities (1) that are rated within one of the two highest rating categories by at least one of the nationally recognized rating agencies, (2) that are unrated but are guaranteed by the united states government or an agency of the united states government, or (3) that are unrated or whose ratings have not been updated but that our management determines are of comparable quality to high quality rated mortgage-backed securities;     31       ● the remaining 25% of total assets, may consist of mortgage-backed securities and other qualified reit real estate assets which are unrated or rated less than high quality, but which are at least “investment grade” (rated “bbb” or better by standard & poor’s corporation (or s&p) or the equivalent by another nationally recognized rating agency) or, if not rated, we determine them to be of comparable credit quality to an investment which is rated “bbb” or better.  in addition, we may directly or indirectly invest part of this remaining 25% of our assets in other types of securities, including without limitation, unrated debt, equity or derivative securities, to the extent consistent with our reit qualification requirements.  the derivative securities in which we invest may include securities representing the right to receive interest only or a disproportionately large amount of interest, as well as inverse floaters, which may have imbedded leverage as part of their structural characteristics; and     ● we seek to structure our portfolio to maintain a minimum weighted average rating (including our deemed comparable ratings for unrated mortgage-backed securities) of our mortgage-backed securities of at least single “a” under the s&p rating system and at the comparable level under the other rating systems.   while we remain committed to the agency market, given the current environment, we believe it is prudent to diversify a portion of our investment portfolio.  therefore, we may allocate up to 25% of our stockholders’ equity to real estate assets other than agency mortgage-backed securities. our ongoing investment in new business strategies and new assets is inherently risky, and could disrupt our ongoing businesses. we expect to invest in new business strategies and assets. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, expenses associated with these new investments, inadequate return of capital on our investments, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence of such strategies and assets. because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.   we may experience declines in the market value of our assets resulting in us recording impairments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. a decline in the market value of our mortgage-backed securities or other assets may require us to recognize an “other-than-temporary” impairment (or otti) against such assets under gaap. when the fair value of our mbs is less than its amortized cost, the security is considered impaired. we assess our impaired securities on at least a quarterly basis and designate such impairments as either “temporary” or “other-than-temporary.” if we intend to sell an impaired security, or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the impaired security before its anticipated recovery, then we must recognize an other-than-temporary impairment through earnings equal to the entire difference between the mortgage-backed securities amortized cost and its fair value at the balance sheet date. if we do not expect to sell an other-than-temporarily impaired security, only the portion of the other-than-temporary impairment related to credit losses is recognized through earnings with the remainder recognized as a component of other comprehensive income/(loss) on our balance sheet. impairments we recognize through other comprehensive income/(loss) do not impact our earnings. following the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment through earnings, a new cost basis is established for the mortgage-backed securities and may not be adjusted for subsequent recoveries in fair value through earnings. however, other-than-temporary impairments recognized through earnings may be accreted back to the amortized cost basis of the security on a prospective basis through interest income. the determination as to whether an other-than-temporary impairment exists and, if so, the amount we consider other-than-temporarily impaired is subjective, as such determinations are based on both factual and subjective information available at the time of assessment. as a result, the timing and amount of other-than-temporary impairments constitute material estimates that are susceptible to significant change.   we have not established a minimum dividend payment level. we intend to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year (subject to certain adjustments) is distributed.  this enables us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a reit under the code.  we have not established a minimum dividend payment level and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected for the reasons described in this section.  all distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our reit status and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time.     32     because of competition, we may not be able to acquire mortgage-backed securities at favorable yields. our net income depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire mortgage-backed securities at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs.  in acquiring mortgage-backed securities, we compete with other reits, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders, government entities and other entities that purchase mortgage-backed securities, many of which have greater financial resources than us.  as a result, in the future, we may not be able to acquire sufficient mortgage-backed securities at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs.   we are dependent on our key personnel.   we are dependent on the efforts of our key officers and employees.  the loss of any of their services could have an adverse effect on our operations. although we have employment agreements with each of them, we cannot assure you they will remain employed with us.   our reported gaap financial results differ from the taxable income results that impact our dividend distribution requirements and, therefore, our gaap results may not be an accurate indicator of future taxable income and dividend distributions.   generally, the cumulative net income we report over the life of an asset will be the same for gaap and tax purposes, although the timing of this income recognition over the life of the asset could be materially different.  differences exist in the accounting for gaap net income and reit taxable income which can lead to significant variances in the amount and timing of when income and losses are recognized under these two measures.  due to these differences, our reported gaap financial results could materially differ from our determination of taxable income.   we and our shareholders are subject to certain tax risks.   ● our failure to qualify as a reit would have adverse tax consequences   we believe that since 1997 we have qualified for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes.  we plan to continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit.  the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within our control.  for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 75% of our gross income must come from real estate sources and 95% of our gross income must come from real estate sources and certain other sources that are itemized in the reit tax laws.  we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income (determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by excluding any net capital gain).  even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status.  furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service (or irs) might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult or impossible for us to remain qualified as a reit.   if we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates.  also, unless the irs granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first fail to qualify.  if we fail to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments or for distributions to our stockholders.  this would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities.  in addition, the tax law would no longer require us to make distributions to our stockholders.   a reit that fails the quarterly asset tests for one or more quarters will not lose its reit status as a result of such failure if either (i) the failure is regarded as a de minimis failure under standards set out in the internal revenue code, or (ii) the failure is greater than a de minimis failure but is attributable to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.  in the case of a greater than de minimis failure, however, the reit must pay a tax and must remedy the failure within 6 months of the close of the quarter in which the failure was identified.  in addition, the internal revenue code provides relief for failures of other tests imposed as a condition of reit qualification, as long as the failures are attributable to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.  a reit would be required to pay a penalty of $50,000, however, in the case of each failure.     33       ● we have certain distribution requirements   as a reit, we must distribute at least 90% of our reit taxable income (determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by excluding any net capital gain).  the required distribution limits the amount we have available for other business purposes, including amounts to fund our growth.  also, it is possible that because of the differences between the time we actually receive revenue or pay expenses and the period we report those items for distribution purposes, we may have to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement.     ● we are also subject to other tax liabilities   even if we qualify as a reit, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property.  any of these taxes would reduce our operating cash flow.     ● limits on ownership of our common stock could have adverse consequences to you and could limit your opportunity to receive a premium on our stock   to maintain our qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal tax laws to include certain entities). primarily to facilitate maintenance of our qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes, our charter will prohibit ownership, directly or by the attribution provisions of the federal tax laws, by any person of more than 9.8% of the lesser of the number or value of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and will prohibit ownership, directly or by the attribution provisions of the federal tax laws, by any person of more than 9.8% of the lesser of the number or value of the issued and outstanding shares of any class or series of our preferred stock. our board of directors, in its sole and absolute discretion, may waive or modify the ownership limit with respect to one or more persons who would not be treated as “individuals” for purposes of the federal tax laws if it is satisfied, based upon information required to be provided by the party seeking the waiver and upon an opinion of counsel satisfactory to the board of directors, that ownership in excess of this limit will not otherwise jeopardize our status as a reit for federal income tax purposes.   the ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our common stock in connection with a change in control.     ● a reit cannot invest more than 25% of its total assets in the stock or securities of one or more taxable reit subsidiaries; therefore, our taxable subsidiaries cannot constitute more than 25% of our total assets   a taxable reit subsidiary is a corporation, other than a reit or a qualified reit subsidiary, in which a reit owns stock and which elects taxable reit subsidiary status.  the term also includes a corporate subsidiary in which the taxable reit subsidiary owns more than a 35% interest.  a reit may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more taxable reit subsidiaries.  a taxable reit subsidiary may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent reit.  overall, at the close of any calendar quarter, no more than 25% of the value of a reit’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more taxable reit subsidiaries.   the stock and securities of our taxable reit subsidiaries are expected to represent less than 25% of the value of our total assets.  furthermore, we intend to monitor the value of our investments in the stock and securities of our taxable reit subsidiaries to ensure compliance with the above-described 25% limitation.  we cannot assure you, however, that we will always be able to comply with the 25% limitation so as to maintain reit status.     34       ● taxable reit subsidiaries are subject to tax at the regular corporate rates, are not required to distribute dividends, and the amount of dividends a taxable reit subsidiary can pay to its parent reit may be limited by reit gross income tests   a taxable reit subsidiary must pay income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns.  our taxable reit subsidiaries will pay corporate income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us.  such income, however, is not required to be distributed.   moreover, the annual gross income tests that must be satisfied to ensure reit qualification may limit the amount of dividends that we can receive from our taxable reit subsidiaries and still maintain our reit status.  generally, not more than 25% of our gross income can be derived from non-real estate related sources, such as dividends from a taxable reit subsidiary.  if, for any taxable year, the dividends we received from our taxable reit subsidiaries, when added to our other items of non-real estate related income, represented more than 25% of our total gross income for the year, we could be denied reit status, unless we were able to demonstrate, among other things, that our failure of the gross income test was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.   the limitations imposed by the reit gross income tests may impede our ability to distribute assets from our taxable reit subsidiaries to us in the form of dividends.  certain asset transfers may, therefore, have to be structured as purchase and sale transactions upon which our taxable reit subsidiaries recognize taxable gain.     ● if interest accrues on indebtedness owed by a taxable reit subsidiary to its parent reit at a rate in excess of a commercially reasonable rate, or if transactions between a reit and a taxable reit subsidiary are entered into on other than arm’s-length terms, the reit may be subject to a penalty tax   if interest accrues on an indebtedness owed by a taxable reit subsidiary to its parent reit at a rate in excess of a commercially reasonable rate, the reit is subject to tax at a rate of 100% on the excess of (i) interest payments made by a taxable reit subsidiary to its parent reit over (ii) the amount of interest that would have been payable had interest accrued on the indebtedness at a commercially reasonable rate.  a tax at a rate of 100% is also imposed on any transaction between a taxable reit subsidiary and its parent reit to the extent the transaction gives rise to deductions to the taxable reit subsidiary that are in excess of the deductions that would have been allowable had the transaction been entered into on arm’s-length terms.  we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our taxable reit subsidiaries in an effort to ensure that we do not become subject to these taxes.  we may not be able to avoid application of these taxes.   risks related to commercial mortgage and real estate assets a prolonged economic slowdown or continued declining real estate values could impair the assets we may own and harm our operating results. many of the commercial mortgage and real estate assets we may own may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions, which could lead to financial losses in our assets and a decrease in revenues, net income and asset values. unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. these events could result in significant diminution in the value of our assets, prevent us from increasing our assets and have an adverse effect on our operating results.   continued adverse developments in the broader residential and commercial mortgage market may adversely affect the value of the assets in which we expect to invest.     35     for the past few years, the residential and commercial mortgage market in the united states has experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions, including defaults, credit losses and liquidity concerns. certain commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies have announced extensive losses from exposure to the residential and commercial mortgage market. these losses have reduced financial industry capital, leading to reduced liquidity for some institutions. these factors have impacted investor perception of the risk associated with cmbs and commercial mortgage loans which we may acquire. as a result, values for cmbs and commercial mortgage loans in which we expect to invest may experience volatility. further increased volatility and deterioration in the broader residential and commercial mortgage and mortgage-backed securities markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of the assets we expect to acquire.   any decline in the value of our assets, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would likely continue to make it difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, or maintain our compliance with terms of any financing arrangements already in place. the cmbs in which we expect to invest is classified for accounting purposes as available-for-sale. all assets classified as available-for-sale will be reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. as a result, a decline in fair values may reduce the book value of our assets. moreover, if the decline in fair value of an available-for-sale security is other-than-temporarily impaired, such decline will reduce earnings. if market conditions result in a decline in the fair value of the cmbs we expect to acquire, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected.   the commercial mortgage loans we expect to acquire and the mortgage loans underlying the cmbs assets we expect to acquire depend on the ability of the commercial property owner to generate net income from operating the property. failure to do so may result in delinquency and/or foreclosure. commercial mortgage loans are secured by multifamily or commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that may be greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. the ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. if the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. net operating income of an income-producing property can be adversely affected by, among other things,     ● tenant mix;     ● success of tenant businesses;     ● property management decisions;     ● property location, condition and design;     ● competition from comparable types of properties;     ● changes in laws that increase operating expenses or limit rents that may be charged;     ● changes in national, regional or local economic conditions or specific industry segments, including the credit and securitization markets;     ● declines in regional or local real estate values;     ● declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates;     ● increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses;     ● costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions;     ● the potential for uninsured or underinsured property losses;     36       ● changes in governmental laws and regulations, including fiscal policies, zoning ordinances and environmental legislation and the related costs of compliance; and     ● acts of god, terrorist attacks, social unrest and civil disturbances.   in the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations and limit amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. in the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process, which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan.   because assets we expect to acquire may experience periods of illiquidity, we may lose profits or be prevented from earning capital gains if we cannot sell mortgage-related assets at an opportune time. we bear the risk of being unable to dispose of our targeted assets at advantageous times or in a timely manner because mortgage-related assets generally experience periods of illiquidity, including the recent period of delinquencies and defaults with respect to commercial mortgage loans. the lack of liquidity may result from the absence of a willing buyer or an established market for these assets, as well as legal or contractual restrictions on resale or the unavailability of financing for these assets. as a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which may cause us to incur losses.   the lack of liquidity in the assets we expect to acquire may adversely affect our business. the illiquidity of our commercial mortgage and real estate assets we expect to acquire may make it difficult for us to sell such assets if the need or desire arises. many of the securities we expect to purchase are not be registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or their disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or otherwise in accordance with, those laws. in addition, certain assets such as b-notes, mezzanine loans, preferred equity and bridge and other loans are also particularly illiquid assets due to their potential unsuitability for securitization and the greater difficulty of recovery in the event of a borrower’s default. moreover, turbulent market conditions, such as those recently in effect, could significantly and negatively impact the liquidity of our assets. it may be difficult or impossible to obtain third party pricing on the assets we purchase. illiquid assets typically experience greater price volatility, as a ready market does not exist, and can be more difficult to value. in addition, validating third party pricing for illiquid assets may be more subjective than more liquid assets. as a result, we expect many of the assets we may acquire will be illiquid and if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our assets. further, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an asset in a business entity to the extent that we have or could be attributed with material, nonpublic information regarding such business entity. as a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   the real estate investments we expect to acquire will be illiquid. because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to adjust the portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions will be limited. certain significant expenditures generally do not change in response to economic or other conditions, including: (i) debt service (if any), (ii) real estate taxes, and (iii) operating and maintenance costs. this combination of variable revenue and relatively fixed expenditures may result, under certain market conditions, in reduced earnings and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.     37     the cmbs assets we expect to acquire are subject to losses.   the cmbs we expect to acquire are subject to losses. in general, losses on a mortgaged property securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by the holder of a mezzanine loan or b-note, if any, then by the “first loss” subordinated security holder generally, the “b-piece” buyer, and then by the holder of a higher-rated security. in the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, mezzanine loans or b-notes, and any classes of securities junior to those which we acquire, we will not be able to recover all of our capital in the securities we purchase. in addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related mortgage-backed securities. the prices of lower credit quality cmbs are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated cmbs, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments. the projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality cmbs because the ability of obligors of mortgages underlying cmbs to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. in such event, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities.   we may not control the special servicing of the mortgage loans included in the cmbs in which we may invest and, in such cases, the special servicer may take actions that could adversely affect our interests.   with respect to the cmbs in which we may invest, overall control over the special servicing of the related underlying mortgage loans will be held by a “directing certificate holder” or a “controlling class representative,” which is appointed by the holders of the most subordinate class of cmbs in such series. to the extent that we focus on acquiring classes of existing series of cmbs originally rated aaa, we will not have the right to appoint the directing certificate holder. in connection with the servicing of the specially serviced mortgage loans, the related special servicer may, at the direction of the directing certificate holder, take actions with respect to the specially serviced mortgage loans that could adversely affect our interests.   if we overestimate the yields or incorrectly prices the risks of our assets, we may experience losses.   we will value our potential assets based on yields and risks, taking into account estimated future losses on the mortgage loans and the underlying collateral included in the securitization’s pools, and the estimated impact of these losses on expected future cash flows and returns. our loss estimates may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates. in the event that we underestimate the asset level losses relative to the price we pay for a particular asset, we may experience losses with respect to such asset.   purchases of non-conforming and non-investment grade rated loans or securities involve increased risk of loss.   it is possible that some of the loans we acquire will not conform to conventional loan standards applied by traditional lenders and either will not be rated or will be rated as non-investment grade by the rating agencies. the non-investment grade ratings for these assets typically result from the overall leverage of the loans, the lack of a strong operating history for the properties underlying the loans, the borrowers’ credit history, the properties’ underlying cash flow or other factors. as a result, these loans will have a higher risk of default and loss than investment grade rated assets. any loss we incur may be significant and may reduce distributions to our stockholders and adversely affect the market value of our common shares.   any credit ratings assigned to our assets will be subject to ongoing evaluations and revisions, and we cannot assure you that those ratings will not be downgraded.   some of our assets may be rated by moody’s investors service, fitch ratings, standard & poor’s, dbrs, inc., realpoint llc or other credit ratings organizations. any credit ratings on our assets are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and we cannot assure you that any such ratings will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. if rating agencies assign a lower-than-expected rating or reduce or withdraw, or indicate that they may reduce or withdraw, their ratings of our assets in the future, the value of these assets could significantly decline, which would adversely affect the value of our portfolio and could result in losses upon disposition or the failure of borrowers to satisfy their debt service obligations to us.     38     the b-notes that we may acquire may be subject to additional risks related to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us.   we may acquire b-notes. a b-note is a mortgage loan typically (1) secured by a first mortgage on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and (2) subordinated to an a-note secured by the same first mortgage on the same collateral. as a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for b-note holders after payment to the a-note holders. however, because each transaction is privately negotiated, b-notes can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. for example, the rights of holders of b-notes to control the process following a borrower default may vary from transaction to transaction. further, b-notes typically are secured by a single property and so reflect the risks associated with significant concentration. significant losses related to our b-notes would result in operating losses for us and may limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.   the mezzanine loan assets that we expect to acquire will involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income-producing properties.   we may acquire mezzanine loans, which take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the property. these types of assets involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income-producing real property, because the loan may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. in the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. if a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt. as a result, we may not recover some or all of our initial expenditure. in addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. significant losses related to our mezzanine loans would result in operating losses for us and may limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.   we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify investors if we breach representations and warranties, which could harm our earnings.   when we sell loans, we will be required to make customary representations and warranties about such loans to the loan purchaser. our commercial mortgage loan sale agreements will require us to repurchase or substitute loans in the event we breach a representation or warranty given to the loan purchaser. in addition, we may be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default on a mortgage loan. likewise, we may be required to repurchase or substitute loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans are generally broader than those available to us against the originating broker or correspondent. further, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to enforce the remedies we have against the sellers. the repurchased loans typically can only be financed at a steep discount to their repurchase price, if at all. they are also typically sold at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance. significant repurchase activity could harm our cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and business prospects.   we and our third party loan originators and servicers’ due diligence of potential assets may not reveal all of the liabilities associated with such assets and may not reveal other weaknesses in such assets, which could lead to losses.   before making an asset acquisition, we will assess the strengths and weaknesses of the originator or issuer of the asset as well as other factors and characteristics that are material to the performance of the asset. in making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we will rely on resources available to it, including our third party loan originators and servicers. this process is particularly important with respect to newly formed originators or issuers because there may be little or no information publicly available about these entities and assets. there can be no assurance that our due diligence process will uncover all relevant facts or that any asset acquisition will be successful.     39     the real estate assets we expect to acquire are subject to risks particular to real property, which may adversely affect our returns from certain assets and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.   we will own assets secured by real estate and own real estate directly, in the future, we may own real estate directly either through direct purchases or upon a default of mortgage loans. real estate assets are subject to various risks, including:     ● acts of god, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses;     ● acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on september 11, 2001;     ● adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions;     ● changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances;     ● costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions such as indoor mold; and     ● the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses.   if any of these or similar events occurs, it may reduce our return from an affected property or investment and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to stockholders.   construction loans involve an increased risk of loss.   we may acquire construction loans. if we fail to fund our entire commitment on a construction loan or if a borrower otherwise fails to complete the construction of a project, there could be adverse consequences associated with the loan, including: a loss of the value of the property securing the loan, especially if the borrower is unable to raise funds to complete it from other sources; a borrower claim against us for failure to perform under the loan documents; increased costs to the borrower that the borrower is unable to pay; a bankruptcy filing by the borrower; and abandonment by the borrower of the collateral for the loan.   risks of cost overruns and noncompletion of renovation of the properties underlying rehabilitation loans may result in significant losses. the renovation, refurbishment or expansion by a borrower under a mortgaged property involves risks of cost overruns and noncompletion. estimates of the costs of improvements to bring an acquired property up to standards established for the market position intended for that property may prove inaccurate. other risks may include rehabilitation costs exceeding original estimates, possibly making a project uneconomical, environmental risks and rehabilitation and subsequent leasing of the property not being completed on schedule. if such renovation is not completed in a timely manner, or if it costs more than expected, the borrower may experience a prolonged impairment of net operating income and may not be able to make payments on our investment, which could result in significant losses.   we use analytical models and data in connection with the valuation of our assets, and any incorrect, misleading or incomplete information used in connection therewith would subject us to potential risks.   given the complexity of our expected assets and strategies, we must rely heavily on analytical models (both proprietary models developed by us and those supplied by third parties) and information and data supplied by our third party loan originators and servicers, or models and data. models and data are used to value assets or potential asset purchases and also in connection with hedging our assets. when models and data prove to be incorrect, misleading or incomplete, any decisions made in reliance thereon expose us to potential risks. for example, by relying on models and data, especially valuation models, we may be induced to buy certain assets at prices that are too high, to sell certain other assets at prices that are too low or to miss favorable opportunities altogether. similarly, any hedging based on faulty models and data may prove to be unsuccessful. furthermore, any valuations of our assets that are based on valuation models may prove to be incorrect.     40     some of the risks of relying on analytical models and third-party data are particular to analyzing tranches from securitizations, such as cmbs or rmbs. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) collateral cash flows and/or liability structures may be incorrectly modeled in all or only certain scenarios, or may be modeled based on simplifying assumptions that lead to errors; (ii) information about collateral may be incorrect, incomplete, or misleading; (iii) collateral or bond historical performance (such as historical prepayments, defaults, cash flows, etc.) may be incorrectly reported, or subject to interpretation (e.g., different issuers may report delinquency statistics based on different definitions of what constitutes a delinquent loan); or (iv) collateral or bond information may be outdated, in which case the models may contain incorrect assumptions as to what has occurred since the date information was last updated.   some of the analytical models used by us, such as mortgage prepayment models or mortgage default models, are predictive in nature. the use of predictive models has inherent risks. for example, such models may incorrectly forecast future behavior, leading to potential losses on a cash flow and/or a mark-to-market basis. in addition, the predictive models used by us may differ substantially from those models used by other market participants, with the result that valuations based on these predictive models may be substantially higher or lower for certain assets than actual market prices. furthermore, since predictive models are usually constructed based on historical data supplied by third parties, the success of relying on such models may depend heavily on the accuracy and reliability of the supplied historical data and the ability of these historical models to accurately reflect future periods.   all valuation models rely on correct market data inputs. if incorrect market data is entered into even a well-founded valuation model, the resulting valuations will be incorrect. however, even if market data is inputted correctly, “model prices” will often differ substantially from market prices, especially for securities with complex characteristics, such as derivative securities.   we may experience a decline in the fair value of our expected assets.   a decline in the fair market value of our expected assets may require us to recognize an “other-than-temporary” impairment against such assets under gaap if we were to determine that, with respect to any assets in unrealized loss positions, we do not have the ability and intent to hold such assets to maturity or for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery to the amortized cost of such assets. if such a determination were to be made, we would recognize unrealized losses through earnings and write down the amortized cost of such assets to a new cost basis, based on the fair value of such assets on the date they are considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired. such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition; subsequent disposition or sale of such assets could further affect our future losses or gains, as they are based on the difference between the sale price received and adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale.   some of our portfolio assets may be recorded at fair value and, as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of these assets. some of our portfolio assets are in the form of positions or securities that are not publicly traded. the fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. we will value these assets quarterly at fair value. because such valuations are subjective, the fair value of certain of our assets may fluctuate over short periods of time and our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. the value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal.   liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of properties that we may acquire or foreclosure on.   if we acquire or foreclose on properties with respect to which we have extended mortgage loans, we may be subject to environmental liabilities arising from such foreclosed properties. under various u.s. federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances.     41     the presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner’s ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. to the extent that an owner of a property underlying one of our debt investments becomes liable for removal costs, the ability of the owner to make payments to us may be reduced, which in turn may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage asset held by us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. if we acquire any properties, the presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property and we may incur substantial remediation costs, thus harming our financial condition. the discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to such properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.   our reserves for loan losses may prove inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.   we maintain financial reserves to protect against potential losses and conduct a review of the adequacy of these reserves on a quarterly basis. our reserves reflect management’s current judgment of the probability and severity of losses within our overall portfolio, based on this quarterly review. however, estimation of ultimate loan losses, projected expenses and loss reserves is a complex process and there can be no assurance that management’s judgment will prove to be correct and that reserves will be adequate over time to protect against future losses. such losses could be caused by factors including, but not limited to, unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific assets, co-venturers, borrowers, industries in which our borrowers operate or markets in which our borrowers or their properties are located. if our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate we may suffer additional losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations.   we may suffer losses when a borrower defaults on a loan and the underlying collateral value is less than the amount due.   if a borrower defaults on a non-recourse loan, we will only have recourse to the real estate-related assets collateralizing the loan. if the underlying collateral value is less than the loan amount, we will suffer a loss. conversely, some of our loans may be unsecured or are secured only by equity interests in the borrowing entities. these loans are subject to the risk that other lenders in the capital stack may be directly secured by the real estate assets of the borrower or may otherwise have a superior right to repayment. upon a default, those collateralized lenders would have priority over us with respect to the proceeds of a sale of the underlying real estate. in cases described above, we may lack control over the underlying asset collateralizing our loan or the underlying assets of the borrower before a default, and, as a result, the value of the collateral may be reduced by acts or omissions by owners or managers of the assets. in addition, the value of the underlying real estate may be adversely affected by some or all of the risks referenced above with respect to our owned real estate.   some of our loans may be backed by individual or corporate guarantees from borrowers or their affiliates which are not secured. if the guarantees are not fully or partially secured, we typically rely on financial covenants from borrowers and guarantors which are designed to require the borrower or guarantor to maintain certain levels of creditworthiness. where we do not have recourse to specific collateral pledged to satisfy such guarantees or recourse loans, we will only have recourse as an unsecured creditor to the general assets of the borrower or guarantor, some or all of which may be pledged as collateral for other lenders. there can be no assurance that a borrower or guarantor will comply with its financial covenants, or that sufficient assets will be available to pay amounts owed to us under our loans and guarantees. as a result of these factors, we may suffer additional losses which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.   upon a borrower bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower to satisfy our loan. in addition, certain of our loans are subordinate to other debt of certain borrowers. if a borrower defaults on our loan or on debt senior to our loan, or upon a borrower bankruptcy, our loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt receives payment. where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through “standstill” periods) and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings. bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase collection costs and the time needed for us to acquire title to the underlying collateral (if applicable), during which time the collateral and/or a borrower’s financial condition may decline in value, causing us to suffer additional losses.     42     if the value of collateral underlying a loan declines or interest rates increase during the term of a loan, a borrower may not be able to obtain the necessary funds to repay our loan at maturity through refinancing because the underlying property revenue cannot satisfy the debt service coverage requirements necessary to obtain new financing. if a borrower is unable to repay our loan at maturity, we could suffer additional loss which may adversely impact our financial performance.   we are subject to additional risks associated with loan participations.   some of our loans may be participation interests or co-lender arrangements in which we share the rights, obligations and benefits of the loan with other lenders. we may need the consent of these parties to exercise our rights under such loans, including rights with respect to amendment of loan documentation, enforcement proceedings upon a default and the institution of, and control over, foreclosure proceedings. similarly, certain participants may be able to take actions to which we object but to which we will be bound if our participation interest represents a minority interest. we may be adversely affected by this lack of control.   lease expirations, lease defaults and lease terminations may adversely affect our revenue.   lease expirations and lease terminations may result in reduced revenues if the lease payments received from replacement tenants are less than the lease payments received from the expiring or terminating tenants. in addition, lease defaults or lease terminations by one or more significant tenants or the failure of tenants under expiring leases to elect to renew their leases, could cause us to experience long periods of vacancy with no revenue from a facility and to incur substantial capital expenditures and/or lease concessions to obtain replacement tenants.   we operate in a highly competitive market for asset acquisition opportunities and more established competitors may be able to compete more effectively for asset acquisition opportunities than we can.   a number of entities compete with us to purchase the types of cmbs and commercial real estate assets that we expect to acquire. we compete with other reits, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial finance companies, including some of the third parties with which we expect to have relationships. many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. several other reits have recently raised, or may raise, significant amounts of capital, and may have objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for asset acquisition opportunities. some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. in addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of asset acquisitions and establish more relationships than us. we cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive asset acquisition opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and purchase assets that are consistent with our objectives.   the increasing number of proposed federal, state and local laws may increase our risk of liability with respect to certain mortgage loans and could increase our cost of doing business.   the united states congress and various state and local legislatures are considering legislation, which, among other provisions, would permit limited assignee liability for certain violations in the mortgage loan origination process and “credit risk” retention by originators or securitizers of mortgage loans. we cannot predict whether or in what form congress or the various state and local legislatures may enact legislation affecting our business. we are evaluating the potential impact of these initiatives, if enacted, on our practices and results of operations. as a result of these and other initiatives, we are unable to predict whether federal, state or local authorities will require changes in our practices in the future. these changes, if required, could adversely affect our profitability, particularly if we make such changes in response to new or amended laws, regulations or ordinances in any state where we acquire a significant portion of our mortgage loans, or if such changes result in us being held responsible for any violations in the mortgage loan origination process.     43     accounting rules for certain of our transactions are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions, and changes in accounting treatment may adversely affect our profitability and impact our financial results.   accounting rules for mortgage loan sales and securitizations, valuations of financial instruments, investment consolidations and other aspects of our anticipated operations are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. these complexities could lead to a delay in preparation of financial information and the delivery of this information to our shareholders. changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our financial statements and our ability to timely prepare our financial statements in a timely fashion. our inability to timely prepare our financial statements in a timely fashion in the future would likely adversely affect our share price significantly.   the fair value at which our assets may be recorded may not be an indication of their realizable value. ultimate realization of the value of an asset depends to a great extent on economic and other conditions. further, fair value is only an estimate based on good faith judgment of the price at which an investment can be sold since market prices of investments can only be determined by negotiation between a willing buyer and seller. if we were to liquidate a particular asset, the realized value may be more than or less than the amount at which such asset is valued. accordingly, the value of our common shares could be adversely affected by our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments, whether in the applicable period or in the future. additionally, such valuations may fluctuate over short periods of time.   if we utilize non-recourse long-term securitizations, such structures may expose us to risks which could result in losses to us.   we may utilize non-recourse long-term securitizations of our assets in mortgage loans, especially loan originations, when they are available. prior to any such financing, we may seek to finance assets with relatively short-term facilities until a sufficient portfolio is accumulated. as a result, we would be subject to the risk that we would not be able to acquire, during the period that any short-term facilities are available, sufficient eligible assets to maximize the efficiency of a securitization. we also would bear the risk that we would not be able to obtain new short-term facilities or would not be able to renew any short-term facilities after they expire should we need more time to seek and acquire sufficient eligible assets for a securitization. in addition, conditions in the capital markets, including the recent unprecedented volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, may not permit a non-recourse securitization at any particular time or may make the issuance of any such securitization less attractive to us even when we do have sufficient eligible assets. while we would intend to retain the unrated equity component of securitizations and, therefore, still have exposure to any assets included in such securitizations, our inability to enter into such securitizations would increase our overall exposure to risks associated with direct ownership of such assets, including the risk of default. our inability to refinance any short-term facilities would also increase our risk because borrowings thereunder would likely be recourse to us as an entity. if we are unable to obtain and renew short-term facilities or to consummate securitizations to finance our assets on a long-term basis, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or to liquidate assets at an inopportune time or price.   any warehouse facilities that we may obtain in the future may limit our ability to acquire assets, and we may incur losses if the collateral is liquidated.   if securitization financings become available, we may utilize, if available, warehouse facilities pursuant to which we would accumulate commercial mortgage loans in anticipation of a securitization financing, which assets would be pledged as collateral for such facilities until the securitization transaction is consummated. to borrow funds to acquire assets under any future warehouse facilities, we expect that our lenders thereunder would have the right to review the potential assets for which we are seeking financing. we may be unable to obtain the consent of a lender to acquire assets that we believe would be beneficial to us and we may be unable to obtain alternate financing for such assets. in addition, no assurance can be given that a securitization structure would be consummated with respect to the assets being warehoused. if the securitization is not consummated, the lender could liquidate the warehoused collateral, and we would then have to pay any amount by which the original purchase price of the collateral assets exceeds its sale price, subject to negotiated caps, if any, on our exposure. in addition, regardless of whether the securitization is consummated, if any of the warehoused collateral is sold before the consummation, we would have to bear any resulting loss on the sale.     44     securitizations would expose us to additional risks.   in a securitization structure, we would convey a pool of assets to a special purpose vehicle, the issuing entity, and the issuing entity would issue one or more classes of non-recourse notes pursuant to the terms of an indenture. the notes would be secured by the pool of assets. in exchange for the transfer of assets to the issuing entity, we would receive the cash proceeds of the sale of non-recourse notes and a 100% interest in the equity of the issuing entity. the securitization of our portfolio might magnify our exposure to losses because any equity interest we retain in the issuing entity would be subordinate to the notes issued to investors and we would, therefore, absorb all of the losses sustained with respect to a securitized pool of assets before the owners of the notes experience any losses. moreover, we cannot be assured that we will be able to access the securitization market or be able to do so at favorable rates. the inability to securitize our portfolio could hurt our performance and our ability to grow our business.   lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations that may inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase revenues.   if or when we obtain debt financing, lenders (especially in the case of bank credit facilities) may impose restrictions on us that would affect our ability to incur additional debt, make certain allocations or acquisitions, reduce liquidity below certain levels, make distributions to our shareholders, redeem debt or equity securities and impact our flexibility to determine our operating policies and strategies. for example, our loan documents may contain negative covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to repurchase our common shares, distribute more than a certain amount of our net income or funds from operations to our shareholders, employ leverage beyond certain amounts, sell assets, engage in mergers or consolidations, grant liens, and enter into transactions with affiliates. if we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants, we would be in default under these agreements, and our lenders could elect to declare outstanding amounts due and payable, terminate their commitments, require the posting of additional collateral and enforce their interests against existing collateral. we may also be subject to cross-default and acceleration rights and, with respect to collateralized debt, the posting of additional collateral and foreclosure rights upon default. furthermore, this could also make it difficult for us to satisfy the qualification requirements necessary to maintain our status as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes. a default and resulting repayment acceleration could significantly reduce our liquidity, which could require us to sell our assets to repay amounts due and outstanding. this could also significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions, which could cause the value of our capital stock to decline. a default could also significantly limit our financing alternatives such that we would be unable to pursue our leverage strategy, which could adversely affect our returns.   our assets may become non-performing and sub-performing assets in the future, which are subject to increased risks relative to performing loans.   our assets may in the near or the long term become non-performing and sub-performing assets, which are subject to increased risks relative to performing assets. loans may become non-performing or sub-performing for a variety of reasons, such as the underlying property being too highly leveraged, decreasing income generated from the underlying property, or the financial distress of the borrower, in each case, that results in the borrower being unable to meet its debt service and/or repayment obligations. such non-performing or sub-performing assets may require a substantial amount of workout negotiations and/or restructuring, which may involve substantial cost and divert the attention of our management from other activities and entail, among other things, a substantial reduction in interest rate, the capitalization of interest payments and a substantial write-down of the principal of the loan. even if a restructuring were successfully accomplished, the borrower may not be able or willing to maintain the restructured payments or refinance the restructured mortgage upon maturity.   from time to time we find it necessary or desirable to foreclose on some, if not many, of the loans we acquire, and the foreclosure process may be lengthy and expensive. borrowers may resist foreclosure actions by asserting numerous claims, counterclaims and defenses to payment against us (such as lender liability claims and defenses) even when such assertions may have no basis in fact or law, in an effort to prolong the foreclosure action and force the lender into a modification of the loan or a favorable buy-out of the borrower’s position. in some states, foreclosure actions can take several years or more to litigate. at any time prior to or during the foreclosure proceedings, the borrower may file for bankruptcy, which would have the effect of staying the foreclosure actions and further delaying the resolution of our claims. foreclosure may create a negative public perception of the related property, resulting in a diminution of its value. even if we are successful in foreclosing on a loan, the liquidation proceeds upon sale of the underlying real estate may not be sufficient to recover our cost basis in the loan, resulting in a loss to us. furthermore, any costs or delays involved in the foreclosure of a loan or a liquidation of the underlying property will further reduce the proceeds and thus increase our loss. any such reductions could materially and adversely affect the value of the commercial loans in which we invest.     45     whether or not we have participated in the negotiation of the terms of a mortgage, there can be no assurance as to the adequacy of the protection of the terms of the loan, including the validity or enforceability of the loan and the maintenance of the anticipated priority and perfection of the applicable security interests. furthermore, claims may be asserted that might interfere with enforcement of our rights. in the event of a foreclosure, we may assume direct ownership of the underlying real estate. the liquidation proceeds upon sale of that real estate may not be sufficient to recover our cost basis in the loan, resulting in a loss to us. any costs or delays involved in the effectuation of a foreclosure of the loan or a liquidation of the underlying property will further reduce the proceeds and increase our loss.   whole loan mortgages are also subject to “special hazard” risk (property damage caused by hazards, such as earthquakes or environmental hazards, not covered by standard property insurance policies), and to bankruptcy risk (reduction in a borrower’s mortgage debt by a bankruptcy court). in addition, claims may be assessed against us on account of our position as mortgage holder or property owner, including responsibility for tax payments, environmental hazards and other liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.   when we foreclose on an asset, we may come to own and operate the property securing the loan, which would expose us to the risks inherent in that activity.   when we foreclose on an asset, we may take title to the property securing that asset, and if we do not or cannot sell the property, we would then come to own and operate it as “real estate owned.” owning and operating real property involves risks that are different (and in many ways more significant) than the risks faced in owning an asset secured by that property. in addition, we may end up owning a property that we would not otherwise have decided to acquire directly at the price of our original investment or at all. further, some of the property underlying the assets we are acquiring is of a different type or class than property we have had experience owning directly, including properties such as hotels. accordingly, we may not manage these properties as well as they might be managed by another owner, and our returns to investors could suffer. if we foreclose on and come to own property, our financial performance and returns to investors could suffer.   risks of ownership of our common stock   we may change our policies without stockholder approval.   our board of directors and management determine all of our policies, including our investment, financing and distribution policies. they may amend or revise these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders. policy changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common stock or our ability to pay dividends or distributions.   our governing documents and maryland law impose limitations on the acquisition of our common stock and changes in control that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us.   maryland business combination act   the maryland general corporation law establishes special requirements for “business combinations” between a maryland corporation and “interested stockholders” unless exemptions are applicable.  an interested stockholder is any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our then-outstanding voting stock.  among other things, the law prohibits for a period of five years a merger and other similar transactions between us and an interested stockholder unless the board of directors approved the transaction prior to the party’s becoming an interested stockholder.  the five-year period runs from the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder.  the law also requires a super majority stockholder vote for such transactions after the end of the five-year period.  this means that the transaction must be approved by at least:     ● 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares; and     ● two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares other than shares held by the interested stockholder or an affiliate of the interested stockholder with whom the business combination is to be effected.     46     as permitted by the maryland general corporation law, we have elected not to be governed by the maryland business combination statute.  we made this election by opting out of this statute in our articles of incorporation.  if, however, we amend our articles of incorporation to opt back in to the statute, the business combination statute could have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us and of increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our stockholders’ best interests.   maryland control share acquisition act   maryland law provides that “control shares” of a maryland corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of the stockholders.  two-thirds of the shares eligible to vote must vote in favor of granting the “control shares” voting rights.  “control shares” are shares of stock that, taken together with all other shares of stock the acquirer previously acquired, would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power:     ● one-tenth or more but less than one third of all voting power;     ● one-third or more but less than a majority of all voting power; or     ● a majority or more of all voting power.   control shares do not include shares of stock the acquiring person is entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval.  a “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain exceptions.   if a person who has made (or proposes to make) a control share acquisition satisfies certain conditions (including agreeing to pay expenses), he may compel our board of directors to call a special meeting of stockholders to consider the voting rights of the shares.  if such a person makes no request for a meeting, we have the option to present the question at any stockholders’ meeting.   if voting rights are not approved at a meeting of stockholders then, subject to certain conditions and limitations, we may redeem any or all of the control shares (except those for which voting rights have previously been approved) for fair value.  we will determine the fair value of the shares, without regard to voting rights, as of the date of either:     ● the last control share acquisition; or     ● the meeting where stockholders considered and did not approve voting rights of the control shares.   if voting rights for control shares are approved at a stockholders’ meeting and the acquirer becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote, all other stockholders may obtain rights as objecting stockholders and, thereunder, exercise appraisal rights.  this means that you would be able to force us to redeem your stock for fair value.  under maryland law, the fair value may not be less than the highest price per share paid in the control share acquisition.  furthermore, certain limitations otherwise applicable to the exercise of dissenters’ rights would not apply in the context of a control share acquisition.  the control share acquisition statute would not apply to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if we were a party to the transaction.  the control share acquisition statute could have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us and of increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our stockholders’ best interests.   the market price and trading volume of our shares of common stock may be volatile and issuances of large amounts of shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.   if we issue a significant number of shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock in a short period of time, there could be a dilution of the existing common stock and a decrease in the market price of the common stock.     47     the market price of our shares of common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. in addition, the trading volume in our shares of common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. we cannot assure you that the market price of our shares of common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our shares of common stock include those set forth under “special note regarding forward-looking statements” as well as:     ● actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or business prospects;     ● changes in our earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry;     ● an inability to meet or exceed securities analysts' estimates or expectations;     ● increases in market interest rates;     ● hedging or arbitrage trading activity in our shares of common stock;     ● capital commitments;     ● changes in market valuations of similar companies;     ● adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future;     ● additions or departures of management personnel;     ● actions by institutional shareholders;     ● speculation in the press or investment community;     ● changes in our distribution policy;     ● general market and economic conditions; and     ● future sales of our shares of common stock or securities convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, our shares of common stock.   holders of our shares of common stock will be subject to the risk of volatile market prices and wide fluctuations in the market price of our shares of common stock.  these factors may cause the market price of our shares of common stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. it is impossible to assure you that the market prices of our shares of common stock will not fall in the future.   there may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   under our charter, we have 2,000,000,000  authorized shares of capital stock, par value of $0.01 per share, consisting of 1,956,937,500 shares classified as common stock, 7,412,500 shares classified as 7.875% series a cumulative redeemable preferred stock, 4,600,000 shares classified as 6.00% series b cumulative convertible preferred stock, 12,650,000 shares classified as 7.625% series c cumulative redeemable preferred stock and 18,400,000 shares classified as 7.50% series d cumulative redeemable preferred stock.   sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market, or any hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving our common stock, could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.  we cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock.     48     the repurchase right in our convertible senior notes triggered by a fundamental change could discourage a potential acquiror.   if we undergo certain fundamental changes, such as the acquisition of 50% of the voting power of all shares of our common equity entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, holders of our convertible senior notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, the repurchase date.  we will pay for all notes so repurchased with shares of our common stock using a price per share equal to the average daily volume-weighted average price of our common stock for the 20 consecutive trading days ending on the trading day immediately prior to the occurrence of the fundamental change.  the issuance of these shares of common stock upon certain fundamental changes could discourage a potential acquiror.   broad market fluctuations could negatively impact the market price of our shares of common stock.   the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies in industries similar or related to ours and that have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performance. these broad market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our shares of common stock. furthermore, our operating results and prospects may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or may be lower than those of companies with comparable market capitalizations, which could lead to a material decline in the market price of our shares of common stock.   regulatory risks   loss of investment company act exemption would adversely affect us.   we intend to conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the investment company act of 1940, as amended (the “investment company act”).  if we fail to qualify for this exemption, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would be unable to conduct our business as we currently conduct it.   we currently rely on the exemption from registration provided by section 3(c)(5)(c) of the investment company act.  section 3(c)(5)(c) as interpreted by the staff of the sec, requires us to invest at least 55% of our assets in “mortgages and other liens on and interest in real estate” (or qualifying real estate assets) and at least 80% of our assets in qualifying real estate assets plus real estate related assets.  the assets that we acquire, therefore, are limited by the provisions of the investment company act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the investment company act.   we rely on an interpretation that “whole pool certificates” that are issued or guaranteed by fannie mae, freddie mac or ginnie mae (or agency whole pool certificates) are qualifying real estate assets under section 3(c)(5)(c).  this interpretation was promulgated by the sec staff in a no-action letter over 30 years ago, was reaffirmed by the sec in 1992 and has been commonly relied on by mortgage reits.   on august 31, 2011, the sec issued a concept release titled “companies engaged in the business of acquiring mortgages and mortgage-related instruments” (sec release no. ic-29778).  under the concept release, the sec is reviewing interpretive issues related to the section 3(c)(5)(c) exemption.  among other things, the sec requested comments on whether it should revisit whether agency whole pool certificates may be treated as interests in real estate (and presumably qualifying real estate assets) and whether companies, such as us, whose primary business consists of investing in agency whole pool certificates are the type of entities that congress intended to be encompassed by the exclusion provided by section 3(c)(5)(c).  the potential outcomes of the sec’s actions are unclear as is the sec’s timetable for its review and actions.   if the sec determines that any of these securities are not qualifying real estate assets or real estate related assets, adopts a contrary interpretation with respect to agency whole pool certificates or otherwise believes we do not satisfy the exemption under section 3(c)(5)(c), we could be required to restructure our activities or sell certain of our assets. the net effect of these factors will be to lower our net interest income.  if we fail to qualify for exemption from registration as an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would not be able to conduct our business as described.  our business will be materially and adversely affected if we fail to qualify for this exemption.     49     compliance with proposed and recently enacted changes in securities laws and regulations increases our costs.   the dodd-frank act contains many regulatory changes and calls for future rulemaking that may affect our business, including, but not limited to resolutions involving derivatives, risk-retention in securitizations and short-term financings.  we are evaluating, and will continue to evaluate the potential impact of regulatory change under the dodd-frank act.   we are highly dependent on information systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.   our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. any failure or interruption of our systems or cyber-attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including mortgage-backed securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.  in addition, we also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including clearing agents or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions.   computer malware, viruses, and computer hacking and phishing attacks have become more prevalent in our industry and may occur on our systems in the future.  we rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems.  it is difficult to determine what, if any, negative impact may directly result from any specific interruption or cyber-attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems or any failure to maintain performance, reliability and security of our technical infrastructure.  as a result, any such computer malware, viruses, and computer hacking and phishing attacks may negatively affect our operations.   item 1b.            unresolved