item 1a. risk factors the factors discussed below are cautionary statements that identify important factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. for more information regarding the forward-looking statements contained in this report, see the introductory paragraph to part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing amkor. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also impair our business operations. the occurrence of any of the following risks could affect our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. dependence on the highly cyclical semiconductor and electronic products industries — we operate in volatile industries and industry downturns and declines in global economic and financial conditions could harm our performance. our business is impacted by market conditions in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical by nature and impacted by broad economic factors, such as world-wide gross domestic product and consumer spending. the semiconductor industry has experienced significant and sometimes prolonged downturns in the past. for example, the recent financial crisis and global recession resulted in a downturn in the semiconductor industry that adversely affected our business and results of operations in late 2008 and in 2009. although the world economy recovered somewhat in 2010, economic growth slowed in 2011 in the u.s. and internationally. in view of this slow growth and the recent economic uncertainty in europe, consumer demand in the u.s. and globally may be adversely impacted which may harm the semiconductor industry and our business. since our business is, and will continue to be, dependent on the requirements of semiconductor companies for subcontracted packaging and test services, any downturn in the semiconductor industry or any other industry that uses a significant number of semiconductor devices, such as consumer electronic products, telecommunication devices or computing devices, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. it is difficult to predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, which, in turn, makes it more challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions and identify risks that may affect our business, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, if industry conditions deteriorate, we could suffer significant losses, as we have in the past, which could materially impact our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. fluctuations in operating results and cash flows — our operating results and cash flows have varied and may vary significantly as a result of factors that we cannot control. many factors, including the impact of adverse economic conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross profit, operating results and cash flows, or lead to significant variability of quarterly or annual operating results. our profitability and ability to generate cash from operations is principally dependent upon demand for semiconductors, the utilization of our capacity, semiconductor package mix, the average selling price of our services, our ability to manage our capital expenditures in response to market conditions and our ability to control our costs including labor, material, overhead and financing costs. the downturn in demand for semiconductors in late 2008 and in 2009 resulted in significant declines in our operating results and cash flows as capacity utilization declined. although the world economy recovered somewhat in 2010, the slow rate of economic growth in 2011 and the recent economic uncertainty in europe could adversely affect consumer demand in the u.s. and globally, which may negatively impact our operating results. 15 table of contents our net sales, gross profit, operating income and cash flows have historically fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter as a result of many of the following factors, over which we have little or no control and which we expect to continue to impact our business: • fluctuation in demand for semiconductors and conditions in the semiconductor industry; • changes in our capacity utilization rates; • changes in average selling prices; • changes in the mix of semiconductor packages; • evolving package and test technology; • absence of backlog and the short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the impact of these factors on the timing and volume of orders relative to our production capacity; • changes in costs, availability and delivery times of raw materials and components; • changes in labor costs to perform our services; • wage and commodity price inflation, including precious metals; • the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future orders; • changes in effective tax rates; • the availability and cost of financing; • intellectual property transactions and disputes; • high leverage and restrictive covenants; • warranty and product liability claims and the impact of quality excursions and customer disputes and returns; • costs associated with litigation judgments, indemnification claims and settlements; • international events, political instability, civil disturbances or environmental or natural events, such as earthquakes, that impact our operations; • pandemic illnesses that may impact our labor force and our ability to travel; • difficulties integrating acquisitions and the failure of our joint ventures to operate in accordance with business plans; • our ability to attract and retain qualified employees to support our global operations; • loss of key personnel or the shortage of available skilled workers; • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and the cost of materials used in our packaging services such as gold and copper; • delay, rescheduling and cancellation of large orders and • fluctuations in our manufacturing yields. it is often difficult to predict the impact of these factors upon our results for a particular period. the downturn in the global economy and the semiconductor industry increased the risks associated with the foregoing factors as customer forecasts became more volatile, and there was less visibility regarding future demand and significantly increased uncertainty regarding the economy, credit markets and consumer demand. although the world economy recovered somewhat in 2010, the slow rate of economic growth in 2011 and the recent economic uncertainty in europe could continue to cause volatility in customer forecasts and reduce our visibility regarding future demand in the semiconductor industry. these factors may have a material and adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows or lead to significant variability of quarterly or annual operating results. in addition, these factors may adversely affect our credit ratings which could make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise capital and could adversely affect the price of our securities. 16 table of contents high fixed costs — due to our high percentage of fixed costs, we will be unable to maintain our gross margin at past levels if we are unable to achieve relatively high capacity utilization rates. our operations are characterized by relatively high fixed costs. our profitability depends in part not only on pricing levels for our packaging and test services, but also on the utilization of our human resources and packaging and test equipment. in particular, increases or decreases in our capacity utilization can significantly affect gross margins since the unit cost of packaging and test services generally decreases as fixed costs are allocated over a larger number of units. in periods of low demand, we experience relatively low capacity utilization in our operations, which leads to reduced margins during that period. for example, we experienced lower than optimum utilization in late 2008 and in 2009 due to a decline in world-wide demand for our packaging and test services which impacted our gross margin. transitions between different packaging technologies, such as the transition from gold wirebond to flip chip and copper wirebond packages, can also impact our capacity utilization if we do not efficiently redeploy our equipment assets. for example, in 2011 the migration of some customer demand from wirebond to flip chip packages resulted in under-utilized wirebond assets which negatively impacted our capacity utilization and gross margin. although our capacity utilization at times has been strong, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve consistently high capacity utilization, and if we fail to do so, our gross margins may decrease. if our gross margins decrease, our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. in addition, our fixed operating costs have increased in recent years in part as a result of our efforts to expand our capacity through significant capital additions. forecasted customer demand for which we have made capital investments may not materialize, especially if industry conditions deteriorate. as a result, our sales may not adequately cover our substantial fixed costs resulting in reduced profit levels or causing significant losses, both of which may adversely impact our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. guidance — our failure to meet our guidance or analyst projections could adversely impact the trading prices of our securities. we periodically provide guidance to investors with respect to certain financial information for future periods. securities analysts also periodically publish their own projections with respect to our future operating results. as discussed above under “fluctuations in operating results and cash flows — our operating results and cash flows have varied and may vary significantly as a result of factors that we cannot control,” our operating results and cash flows vary significantly and are difficult to accurately predict. volatility in customer forecasts and reduced visibility caused by economic uncertainty and fluctuations in global consumer demand make it particularly difficult to predict future results. to the extent we fail to meet or exceed our own guidance or the analyst projections for any reason, the trading prices of our securities may be adversely impacted. moreover, even if we do meet or exceed that guidance or those projections, if analysts and investors do not react favorably, or if analysts were to discontinue providing coverage of our company, the trading prices of our securities may be adversely impacted. declining average selling prices — the semiconductor industry places downward pressure on the prices of our packaging and test services. prices for packaging and test services have generally declined over time. historically, we have been able to partially offset the effect of price declines by successfully developing and marketing new packages with higher margins, such as advanced leadframe and laminate packages, by negotiating lower prices with our material vendors, recovering material cost increases from our customers and by driving engineering and technological changes in our packaging and test processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing costs. we expect downward pressure on average selling prices for our packaging and test services to continue in the future. if we are unable to offset a decline in average selling prices, by developing and marketing new packages with higher prices, reducing our purchasing costs, recovering more of our material cost increases from our customers and reducing our manufacturing costs, our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. decisions by our integrated device manufacturer customers to curtail outsourcing may adversely affect our business. historically, we have been dependent on the trend in outsourcing of packaging and test services by integrated device manufacturers, or idms. our idm customers continually evaluate the need for outsourced services against their own in-house packaging and test services. as a result, at any time and for a variety of reasons, idms may decide to shift some or all of their outsourced packaging and test services to internally sourced capacity. 17 table of contents the reasons idms may shift their internal capacity include: • their desire to realize higher utilization of their existing packaging and test capacity, especially during downturns in the semiconductor industry; • their unwillingness to disclose proprietary technology; • their possession of more advanced packaging and test technologies and • the guaranteed availability of their own packaging and test capacity. in addition, to the extent we limit capacity commitments for certain customers, these customers may increase their level of in-house packaging and test capabilities, which could make it more difficult for us to regain their business when we have available capacity. in a downturn in the semiconductor industry, idms could respond by shifting some outsourced packaging and test services to internally serviced capacity on a short term basis. also, the idms could curtail or reverse the trend of outsourcing packaging and test services. if we experience a significant loss of idm business, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows especially during a prolonged industry downturn. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2011, our total debt balance was $1,346.7 million, of which $59.4 million was classified as a current liability. in addition, despite current debt levels, the terms of the indentures governing our indebtedness allow us and our subsidiaries to incur more debt, subject to certain limitations. if new debt is added to our consolidated debt level, the related risks that we now face could intensify. our substantial indebtedness could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including our obligations under our indentures to purchase notes tendered as a result of a change in control of amkor; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other business opportunities; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service payments on our debt; • increase the volatility of the price of our common stock; • limit our flexibility to react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to any of our competitors that have less debt and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. we may have difficulty funding liquidity needs. we operate in a capital intensive industry.  servicing our current and future customers requires that we incur significant operating expenses and continue to make significant capital expenditures, which are generally made in advance of the related revenues and without any firm customer commitments. during 2011, we had capital additions of $453.0 million and in 2012, we currently expect to make capital additions of approximately $300 million for projects already planned for 2012. the actual amount of our 2012 capital additions may vary materially and will depend on several factors including, among others, whether, when and to what extent any capital projects not yet planned, including those currently under senior-level review and any others, are approved, commenced and completed in 2012, the performance of our business, economic and market conditions, the cash needs and investment opportunities for the business, the need for additional capacity and facilities to service customer demand and the availability of cash flow from operations or financing. 18 table of contents in addition, we have a significant level of debt, with $1,346.7 million outstanding at december 31, 2011, $59.4 million of which is current. the terms of such debt require significant scheduled principal payments in the coming years, including $59.4 million due in 2012, $138.9 million due in 2013, $378.4 million due in 2014, $24.0 million due in 2015, $1.0 million due in 2016 and $745.0 million due thereafter. the interest payments required on our debt are also substantial. for example, in 2011, we paid $81.3 million of interest. the sources funding our operations, including making capital expenditures and servicing principal and interest obligations with respect to our debt, are cash flows from our operations, current cash and cash equivalents, borrowings under available debt facilities, or proceeds from any additional debt or equity financing. as of december 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of $434.6 million and availability of $99.7 million under our $100.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility which matures in april 2015. we assess our liquidity based on our current expectations regarding sales, operating expenses, capital spending and debt service requirements. based on this assessment, we believe that our cash flows from operating activities together with existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months. thereafter, our liquidity will continue to be affected by, among other things, the performance of our business, our capital expenditure levels and our ability to repay debt out of our operating cash flows or refinance the debt with the proceeds of debt or equity offerings at or prior to maturity. moreover, the health of the worldwide banking system and financial markets affects the liquidity in the global economic environment. volatility in fixed income, credit and equity markets could make it difficult for us to maintain our existing credit facilities or refinance our debt. if our performance or access to the capital markets differs materially from our expectations, our liquidity may be adversely impacted. in addition, if we fail to generate the necessary net income or operating cash flows to meet the funding needs of our business beyond the next twelve months due to a variety of factors, including the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the other factors discussed in this “risk factors” section, our liquidity would be adversely affected. our ability to draw on our current loan facilities may be adversely affected by conditions in the u.s. and international capital markets. if financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by the conditions of the u.s. and international capital and credit markets, they may be unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to us. for example, we currently have a $100.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility with three banks in the u.s. if any of these banks are adversely affected by capital and credit market conditions and are unable to make loans to us when requested, there could be a corresponding adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow additional funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other corporate purposes. restrictive covenants in the indentures and agreements governing our current and future indebtedness could restrict our operating flexibility. the indentures and agreements governing our existing debt, and debt we may incur in the future, contain, or may contain, affirmative and negative covenants that materially limit our ability to take certain actions, including our ability to incur debt, pay dividends and repurchase stock, make certain investments and other payments, enter into certain mergers and consolidations, engage in sale leaseback transactions and encumber and dispose of assets. in addition, our future debt agreements may contain financial covenants and ratios. the breach of any of these covenants by us or the failure by us to meet any of the financial ratios or conditions could result in a default under any or all of such indebtedness. if a default occurs under any such indebtedness, all of the outstanding obligations thereunder could become immediately due and payable, which could result in a default under our other outstanding debt and could lead to an acceleration of obligations related to other outstanding debt. the existence of such a default or event of default could also preclude us from borrowing funds under our revolving credit facilities. our ability to comply with the provisions of the indentures, credit facilities and other agreements governing our outstanding debt and indebtedness we may incur in the future can be affected by events beyond our control and a default under any debt instrument, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. 19 table of contents we have significant severance plan obligations associated with our manufacturing operations in korea which could reduce our cash flow and negatively impact our financial condition. we sponsor an accrued severance plan for our korean subsidiary, under which we have an accrued liability of $106.5 million as of december 31, 2011. existing tax laws in korea limit our ability to currently deduct severance expenses associated with the current plan. these limitations are designed to encourage companies to migrate to a defined contribution or defined benefit plan. if we adopt a new plan, we would be required to fund a significant portion of the existing liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and cash flows. if we do not adopt a new plan, our ability to currently deduct accrued severance will continue to be limited, and as a result we will have to pay higher taxes, which could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and cash flows. under the existing korean plan, to the extent eligible employees are terminated, our korean subsidiary would be required to make lump sum severance payments on behalf of these eligible employees based on their length of service, seniority and rate of pay at the time of termination. since our severance plan obligation is significant, in the event of a significant layoff or other reduction in our labor force in korea, payments under the plan could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and cash flows. see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 to this annual report on form 10-k. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report financial results or prevent fraud. effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention of fraud. any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. we must annually evaluate our internal procedures to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, which requires management and our independent registered public accounting firm to assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. as previously reported, we are implementing a new enterprise resource planning (“erp”) system in a multi-year program on a world-wide basis. we have recently implemented several significant erp modules and expect to implement additional erp modules in the future. the implementation of the erp system represents a change in our internal control over financial reporting. although we continue to monitor and assess our internal controls in the new erp system environment as changes are made and new modules are implemented, and have taken additional steps to modify and enhance the design and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, there is a risk that deficiencies may occur that could constitute significant deficiencies or in the aggregate a material weakness. if we fail to remedy any deficiencies or maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. in addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our operating results or financial condition. we face warranty claims, product return and liability risks, the risk of economic damage claims and the risk of negative publicity if our packages fail. our packages are incorporated into a number of end products, and our business is exposed to warranty claims, product return and liability risks, the risk of economic damage claims and the risk of negative publicity if our packages fail. we receive warranty claims from our customers which occur from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. if we were to experience an unusually high incidence of warranty claims, we could incur significant costs and our business could be adversely affected. in addition, we are exposed to the product and economic liability risks and the risk of negative publicity affecting our customers. our sales may decline if any of our customers are sued on a product liability claim. we also may suffer a decline in sales from the negative publicity associated with such a lawsuit or with adverse public perceptions in general regarding our customers’ products. further, if our packages are delivered with impurities or defects, we could incur additional development, repair or replacement costs, or suffer other economic losses and our credibility and the market’s acceptance of our packages could be harmed. absence of backlog — the lack of contractually committed customer demand may adversely affect our sales. our packaging and test business does not typically operate with any material backlog. our quarterly net sales from packaging and test services are substantially dependent upon our customers’ demand in that quarter. none of our customers have committed 20 table of contents to purchase any significant amount of packaging or test services or to provide us with binding forecasts of demand for packaging and test services for any future period, in any material amount. in addition, our customers often reduce, cancel or delay their purchases of packaging and test services for a variety of reasons including industry-wide, customer-specific and amkor-specific reasons. since a large portion of our costs is fixed and our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenues, we may not be able to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for any sales shortfall. if we are unable to adjust costs in a timely manner, our margins, operating results, financial condition and cash flows would be adversely affected. risks associated with international operations — we depend on our factories and operations in china, japan, korea, the philippines and taiwan. many of our customers’ and vendors’ operations are also located outside of the u.s. we provide packaging and test services through our factories and other operations located in china, japan, korea, the philippines and taiwan. substantially all of our property, plant and equipment is located outside of the united states. moreover, many of our customers’ and vendors’ operations are located outside the u.s.  the following are some of the risks we face in doing business internationally: • changes in consumer demand resulting from deteriorating conditions in local economies; • regulations imposed by foreign governments, including limitations or taxes imposed on the payment of dividends and other payments by non-u.s. subsidiaries; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • political, military, civil unrest and terrorist risks, particularly an increase in tensions between north korea and south korea; • disruptions or delays in shipments caused by customs brokers or government agencies; • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other restrictive trade barriers or policies; • difficulties in staffing, retention and employee turnover and managing foreign operations, including foreign labor disruptions;  • difficulty in enforcing contractual rights and protecting our intellectual property rights and • potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from changes in tax laws in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. changes in the u.s. tax law regarding earnings of our subsidiaries located outside the u.s. could materially affect our future results. there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. we earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any of these proposals might be enacted into law, if adopted they could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we face risks in connection with the continuing development and implementation of changes to our management information systems we depend on our management information systems for many aspects of our business. some of our key software has been developed by our own programmers, and this software may not be easily integrated with other software and systems. our systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading, replacing or maintaining software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. in addition, security breaches could result in unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. we have made and continue to make significant investments to implement and evolve our management information systems. in addition, we are implementing a new shop floor system in certain of our factories. we face risks in connection with current and future projects to install new management information systems or upgrade our existing systems. these risks include: • we may face delays in the design and implementation of the system; • the cost of the system may exceed our plans and expectations and 21 table of contents • disruptions resulting from the implementation of the system may impact our ability to process transactions and delay shipments to customers, impact our results of operations or financial condition or harm our control environment. our business could be materially and adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or if we are unable to successfully install new systems or improve, upgrade, integrate or expand upon our existing systems. we face risks trying to attract and retain qualified employees to support our operations. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key senior management and technical personnel, any of whom may be difficult to replace. competition for qualified employees is intense, and our business could be adversely affected by the loss of the services of any of our existing key personnel, including senior management, as a result of competition or for any other reason. we evaluate our management team and engage in long-term succession planning in order to ensure orderly replacement of key personnel. we do not have employment agreements with our key employees, including senior management or other contracts that would prevent our key employees from working for our competitors in the event they cease working for us. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to retain key employees or in hiring and properly training sufficient numbers of qualified personnel and in effectively managing our growth. our inability to attract, retain, motivate and train qualified new personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. difficulties consolidating and integrating our operations — we face challenges as we integrate diverse operations. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, change in the scope and complexity of our operations resulting primarily from existing and future facility consolidations, strategic acquisitions, joint ventures and other partnering arrangements. for example, the businesses we have acquired had, at the time of acquisition, multiple systems for managing their own production, sales, inventory and other operations. migrating these businesses to our systems typically is a slow, expensive process requiring us to divert significant resources from other parts of our operations. these changes can strain our managerial, financial, operational and other resources. we may continue to face these challenges in the future. for example, we currently have a 30% investment in j-devices, with options to acquire additional equity interests up to 80%. if we were to acquire these interests, we would need to integrate the j-devices operation with our existing systems. the j-devices integration or other future acquisitions, consolidations and partnering arrangements could result in operating inefficiencies, increased costs and a burden on our resources as we integrate operations. dependence on materials and equipment suppliers — our business may suffer if the cost, quality or supply of materials or equipment changes adversely. we obtain from various vendors the materials and equipment required for the packaging and test services performed by our factories. we source most of our materials, including critical materials such as leadframes, laminate substrates and gold wire, from a limited group of suppliers. a disruption to the operations of one or more of our suppliers could have a negative impact on our business. for example, the severe earthquake and tsunami in japan in 2011 had a significant adverse effect on the electronic industry supply chain impacting the supply of specialty chemicals, substrates, silicon wafers, equipment and other supplies to the electronics industry. in addition, we purchase the majority of our materials on a purchase order basis. our business may be harmed if we cannot obtain materials and other supplies from our vendors in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities, in acceptable quality or at competitive prices. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act imposes new requirements regarding the supply of minerals originating from the conflict zones of the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries. industry associations and some of our customers are also implementing initiatives to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of these materials and, in some cases, requiring us to certify that the covered materials we use in our packaging do not come from the conflict areas. we may incur additional costs associated with complying with the new requirements and customer initiatives. these new requirements and customer initiatives could affect the sourcing and availability of metals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain conflict-free materials in sufficient quantities and at competitive prices or that we will be able to verify the origin of all of the metals we use in our manufacturing process. if we are unable to certify that the metals we use in our packages are conflict-free, it could adversely affect our business as some customers may move their business to other suppliers. our reputation could also be adversely affected. we purchase new packaging and test equipment to maintain and expand our operations. from time to time, increased demand for new equipment may cause lead times to extend beyond those normally required by equipment vendors. for example, in the past, increased demand for equipment caused some equipment suppliers to only partially satisfy our equipment orders in the 22 table of contents normal time frame or to increase prices during market upturns for the semiconductor industry. the unavailability of equipment or failures to deliver equipment on a timely basis could delay or impair our ability to meet customer orders. if we are unable to meet customer orders, we could lose potential and existing customers. generally, we acquire our equipment on a purchase order basis and do not enter into long-term equipment agreements. as a result, we could experience adverse changes in pricing, currency risk and potential shortages in equipment in a strong market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are a large buyer of gold and other commodity materials including substrates and copper. the prices of gold and other commodities used in our business fluctuate. historically, we have been able to partially offset the effect of commodity price increases through price adjustments to some customers and changes in our product designs that reduce the material content and cost, such as the use of shorter, thinner, gold wire and migration to copper wire. however, we typically do not have long-term contracts that permit us to impose price adjustments, and market conditions may limit our ability to do so. significant price increases may adversely impact our gross margin in future periods to the extent we are unable to pass along past or future commodity price increases to our customers. loss of customers — the loss of certain customers or reduced orders from existing customers may have a significant adverse effect on our operations and financial results. the loss of a significant customer, a reduction in orders from a significant customer or disruption in any of our significant strategic partnerships or other commercial arrangements may result in a decline in our sales and profitability. although we have approximately 225 customers, we have derived and expect to continue to derive a large portion of our revenues from a small group of customers during any particular period due in part to the concentration of market share in the semiconductor industry. our ten largest customers together accounted for approximately 61.0%, 54.2% and 53.4% of our net sales in the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. two customers each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net sales in 2011, no customer exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales in 2010 and one customer exceeded 10% of our consolidated net sales in 2009. the demand for our services from each customer is directly dependent upon that customer’s level of business activity, the quality and price of our services, our cycle time and delivery performance, the customer's qualification of additional competitors on products we currently package or test and a number of other factors. each of these factors could vary significantly from year to year resulting in the loss or reduction of customer orders. our business is likely to remain subject to this variability in order levels, and we cannot assure you that our key customers or any other customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in past periods. the loss of one or more of our significant customers, or reduced orders by any one of them and our inability to replace these customers or make up for such orders could reduce our sales and profitability. for example, our facility in iwate, japan is primarily dedicated to a single customer, toshiba corporation. we have also invested in an unconsolidated affiliate, j-devices corporation, for which toshiba is the primary customer. if we were to lose toshiba as a customer or if it were to materially reduce its business with us, it could be difficult for us to find one or more new customers to utilize the capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. in 2011, one customer accounted for 17% of our consolidated net sales, representing approximately 15% of our packaging net sales and 30% of our test net sales. in 2011, another customer accounted for 11% of our consolidated net sales, substantially all of which were packaging net sales. if we were to lose either or both of our two largest customers, or if they significantly reduced their level of business with us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. capital additions — we make substantial capital additions to support the demand of our customers, which may adversely affect our business if the demand of our customers does not develop as we expect or is adversely affected. we make significant capital additions in order to service the demand of our customers. the amount of capital additions depends on several factors, including the performance of our business, our assessment of future industry and customer demand, our capacity utilization levels and availability, our liquidity position and the availability of financing. our ongoing capital addition requirements may strain our cash and short-term asset balances, and, in periods when we are expanding our capital base, we expect that depreciation expense and factory operating expenses associated with our capital additions to increase production capacity will put downward pressure on our gross margin, at least over the near term. 23 table of contents furthermore, if we cannot generate or raise additional funds to pay for capital additions, particularly in some of the advanced packaging and bumping areas, as well as research and development activities, our growth and future profitability may be adversely affected. our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing; • volatility in fixed income, credit and equity markets and • economic, political and other global conditions. the lead time needed to order, install and put into service various capital additions is often significant, and, as a result, we often need to commit to capital additions in advance of our receipt of firm orders or advance deposits based on our view of anticipated future demand with only very limited visibility. although we seek to limit our exposure in this regard, in the past we have from time to time expended significant capital for additions for which the anticipated demand did not materialize for a variety of reasons, many of which were outside of our control. to the extent this occurs in the future, our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. in addition, during periods where customer demand exceeds our capacity, customers may transfer some or all of their business to other suppliers who are able to support their needs. to the extent this occurs, our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. impairment charges — any impairment charges required under u.s. gaap may have a material adverse effect on our net income. under u.s. gaap, we review our long-lived assets including property, plant and equipment, intellectual property and other intangibles for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors we consider include significant under-performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results, significant negative industry or economic trends and our market capitalization relative to net book value. we may be required in the future to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our long-lived assets is determined. such charges have had and could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and our operating flexibility under our debt covenants. litigation incident to our business could adversely affect us. we have been a party to various legal proceedings, including those described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k, and may be a party to litigation in the future. if an unfavorable ruling or outcome were to occur in these legal proceedings or future litigation, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and the trading price of our securities. we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if taxing authorities do not agree with our interpretation of applicable tax laws. our corporate structure and operations are based, in part, on interpretations of various tax laws, including withholding tax, compliance with tax holiday requirements, application of changes in tax law to our operations and other relevant laws of applicable taxing jurisdictions. from time to time, the taxing authorities of the relevant jurisdictions may conduct examinations of our income tax returns and other regulatory filings. we cannot assure you that the taxing authorities will agree with our interpretations. to the extent they do not agree, we may seek to enter into settlements with the taxing authorities which require significant payments or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we may also appeal the taxing authorities’ determinations to the appropriate governmental authorities, but we cannot be sure we will prevail. if we do not prevail, we may have to make significant payments or otherwise record charges (or reduce tax assets) that adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 24 table of contents intellectual property — our business will suffer if we are not able to develop new proprietary technology, protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. the complexity and breadth of semiconductor packaging and test services are rapidly increasing. as a result, we expect that we will need to develop, acquire and implement new manufacturing processes and package design technologies and tools in order to respond to competitive industry conditions and customer requirements. technological advances also typically lead to rapid and significant price erosion and may make our existing packages less competitive or our existing inventories obsolete. if we cannot achieve advances in package design or obtain access to advanced package designs developed by others, our business could suffer. the need to develop and maintain advanced packaging capabilities and equipment could require significant research and development, capital expenditures and acquisitions in future years. in addition, converting to new package designs or process methodologies could result in delays in producing new package types, which could adversely affect our ability to meet customer orders and adversely impact our business. we maintain an active program to protect and derive value from our investment in technology and the associated intellectual property rights. intellectual property rights that apply to our various packages and services include patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks. we have filed for and have obtained a number of patents in the u.s. and abroad, the duration of which varies depending on the jurisdiction in which the patent was filed. while our patents are an important element of our intellectual property strategy, as a whole, we are not materially dependent on any one patent or any one technology. the process of seeking patent protection takes a long time and is expensive. there can be no assurance that patents will issue from pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. any patents we do obtain may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and may not provide meaningful protection or other commercial advantage to us. some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application. the confidentiality agreements on which we rely to protect these technologies may be breached and may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technologies. there can be no assurance that other countries in which we market our services will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the u.s. our competitors may develop, patent or gain access to know-how and technology similar to our own. in addition, many of our patents are subject to cross licenses, several of which are with our competitors. the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims regarding the infringement of patent and other intellectual property rights. if any third party makes an enforceable infringement claim against us or our customers, we could be required to: • discontinue the use of certain processes; • cease to provide the services at issue; • pay substantial damages; • develop non-infringing technologies or • acquire licenses to such technology. we may need to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, including our rights under patent and intellectual property licenses with third parties, or defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others through litigation, which could result in substantial cost and diversion of our resources. furthermore, if we fail to obtain necessary licenses, our business could suffer. we have been involved in legal proceedings involving the acquisition and license of intellectual property rights, the enforcement of our existing intellectual property rights or the enforcement of the intellectual property rights of others, including the arbitration proceeding filed against tessera, inc. and the complaint filed and ongoing proceeding against carsem (m) sdn bhd, carsem semiconductor sdn bhd, and carsem inc., or collectively “carsem”, both of which are described in more detail in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. unfavorable outcomes in any litigation matters involving intellectual property could result in significant liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the potential impact from the legal proceedings referred to in this annual report on form 10-k on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could change in the future. 25 table of contents packaging and test — packaging and test processes are complex and our production yields and customer relationships may suffer from defects in the services we provide. semiconductor packaging and test services are complex processes that require significant technological and process expertise. defective packages primarily result from: • contaminants in the manufacturing environment; • human error; • equipment malfunction; • changing processes to address environmental requirements; • defective raw materials or • defective plating services. testing is also complex and involves sophisticated equipment and software. similar to many software programs, these software programs are complex and may contain programming errors or “bugs.” the testing equipment is also subject to malfunction. in addition, the testing process is subject to operator error. these and other factors have, from time to time, contributed to lower production yields. they may also do so in the future, particularly as we adjust our capacity or change our processing steps. in addition, we must continue to expand our offering of packages to be competitive. our production yields on new packages typically are significantly lower than our production yields on our more established packages. our failure to maintain high standards or acceptable production yields, if significant and prolonged, could result in loss of customers, increased costs of production, delays, substantial amounts of returned goods and claims by customers relating thereto. any of these problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, in line with industry practice, new customers usually require us to pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process that may take several months. if we fail to qualify packages with potential customers or existing customers, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. competition — we compete against established competitors in the packaging and test business as well as internal customer capabilities. the subcontracted semiconductor packaging and test market is very competitive. we face substantial competition from established packaging and test service providers primarily located in asia, including companies with significant processing capacity, financial resources, research and development operations, marketing and other capabilities. these companies also have established relationships with many large semiconductor companies that are our current or potential customers. if one or more of these competitors were to significantly exceed our expenditures on capacity expansion, our market share and business could be negatively impacted. we also face competition from the internal capabilities and capacity of many of our current and potential idm customers. in addition, in the future we may compete with companies (including semiconductor foundries) that may enter the market or offer new or emerging technologies that compete with our packages and services. for example, one of the major semiconductor foundries, which is substantially larger and has greater financial resources than we do, has indicated that it is considering an expansion of its operations to include packaging and test services. we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against our existing or potential competitors or that our customers will not rely on internal sources for packaging and test services, or that our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will not be adversely affected by such increased competition. environmental regulations — future environmental regulations could place additional burdens on our manufacturing operations. the semiconductor packaging process uses liquid chemicals, gases and materials. these processes generate by-products that are subject to extensive governmental regulations. for example, at our foreign facilities we produce liquid waste when 26 table of contents semiconductor wafers are diced into chips with the aid of diamond saws, then cooled with running water. in addition, semiconductor packages have historically utilized metallic alloys containing lead (pb) within the interconnect terminals typically referred to as leads, pins or balls. federal, state and local laws and regulations in the u.s., as well as environmental laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions, impose various controls on the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of chemicals used in our production processes and on the factories we occupy and are increasingly imposing restrictions on the materials contained in semiconductor products. we may become liable under environmental laws for the cost of cleanup of any disposal or release of hazardous materials arising out of our former or current operations, or otherwise as a result of the existence of hazardous materials on our properties. in such an event, we could be held liable for damages, including fines, penalties and the cost of investigations and remedial actions, and could also be subject to revocation of permits negatively affecting our operations. public attention has focused on the environmental impact of semiconductor operations and the risk to neighbors of chemical releases from such operations and to the materials contained in semiconductor products. for example, the european union’s restriction of use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive imposes strict restrictions on the use of lead and other hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. in response to this directive, and similar laws and developing legislation in countries like china, japan and korea, we have implemented changes in a number of our manufacturing processes in an effort to achieve compliance across all of our package types. complying with existing and possible future environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to climate change, may impose upon us the need for additional capital equipment or other process requirements, restrict our ability to expand our operations, disrupt our operations, increase costs, subject us to liability or cause us to curtail our operations. our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by natural disasters, including the recent earthquake and tsunami in japan. we have significant packaging and test and other operations in locations which are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, floods and other severe weather and geological events that could disrupt our operations. in addition, our suppliers and customers also have significant operations in such locations. a natural disaster that results in a prolonged disruption to our operations, or the operations of our customers or suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for example, japan experienced a severe earthquake and tsunami in 2011 that resulted in significant disruption in the electronics industry supply chain and adversely affected japan's economy and consumer spending. in addition, in october 2011, thailand experienced substantial flooding which has affected the facilities and operations of customers and suppliers in our industry. as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by the events in japan, thailand or future natural disasters of a similar nature. fire, flood or other calamity — with our operations conducted in a limited number of facilities, a fire, flood or other calamity at one of our facilities could adversely affect us. we conduct our packaging and test operations at a limited number of facilities. significant damage or other impediments to any of these facilities, whether as a result of fire, flood, weather, the outbreak of infectious diseases (such as sars or flu), civil strife, industrial strikes, breakdowns of equipment, difficulties or delays in obtaining materials and equipment, natural disasters, terrorist incidents, industrial accidents or other causes could temporarily disrupt or even shut down our operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the event of such a disruption or shutdown, we may be unable to reallocate production to other facilities in a timely or cost-effective manner (if at all) and we may not have sufficient capacity to service customer demands in our other facilities. for example, our operations in asia are vulnerable to regional typhoons that can bring with them destructive winds and torrential rains, which could in turn cause plant closures and transportation interruptions. in addition, some of the processes that we utilize in our operations place us at risk of fire and other damage. for example, highly flammable gases are used in the preparation of wafers holding semiconductor devices for flip chip packaging. while we maintain insurance policies for various types of property, casualty and other risks, we do not carry insurance for all the above referred risks and with regard to the insurance we do maintain, we cannot assure you that it would be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. continued control by existing stockholders — mr. james j. kim and members of his family can substantially control the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval. as of january 27, 2012, mr. james j. kim, our executive chairman of the board of directors, members of mr. kim’s immediate family and affiliates owned approximately 87,899,000 shares, or approximately 52%, of our outstanding common stock. approximately 13,351,000 of these shares (the “2013 convert shares”) were acquired upon the conversion in january 2011 of all $100.0 million of our 6.25% convertible subordinated notes due 2013. the kim family also has options to acquire 27 table of contents approximately 985,000 shares and owns $150.0 million of our 6.0% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2014 (the “2014 notes”) that are convertible into approximately 49,595,000 shares of common stock (the “2014 convert shares”) at a conversion price of approximately $3.02 per share. if the options are exercised and the 2014 notes are converted, the kim family would own an aggregate of approximately 138,479,000 shares, or approximately 63%, of our outstanding common stock. the 2013 convert shares and the 2014 convert shares are each subject to separate voting agreements. the agreements require the kim family to vote these respective shares in a “neutral manner” on all matters submitted to our stockholders for a vote, so that such 2013 convert shares and 2014 convert shares are voted in the same proportion as all of the other outstanding securities (excluding the other shares owned by the kim family) that are actually voted on a proposal submitted to amkor’s stockholders for approval. the kim family is not required to vote in a “neutral manner” any 2013 convert shares or 2014 convert shares that, when aggregated with all other voting shares held by the kim family, represent 41.6% or less of the total then-outstanding voting shares of our common stock. the voting agreement for the 2013 convert shares terminates upon the earliest of (i) december 1, 2013, (ii) at such time as no principal amount of the 2013 notes or any 2013 convert shares remain outstanding, (iii) a change of control transaction (as defined in the voting agreement) or (iv) the mutual agreement of the kim family and amkor. the voting agreement for the 2014 convert shares terminates upon the earliest of (i) such time as no principal amount of the 2014 notes remains outstanding and the kim family no longer beneficially own any of the 2014 convert shares, (ii) consummation of a change of control (as defined in the voting agreement) or (iii) the mutual agreement of the kim family and amkor. mr. james j. kim and his family and affiliates, acting together, have the ability to effectively determine matters (other than interested party transactions) submitted for approval by our stockholders by voting their shares, including the election of our board of directors. there is also the potential, through the election of members of our board of directors, that the kim family could substantially influence matters decided upon by our board of directors. this concentration of ownership may also have the effect of impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business consolidation involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our shares, and could also negatively affect our stock’s market price or decrease any premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay. item 1b. unresolved