item 1a. risk factors   investors should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. the risks described below are not the only ones facing actuate. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially harmed. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. investors should also refer to the other information set forth in this report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and the notes thereto.   the company’s operating results may be volatile and difficult to predict. if it fails to meet its estimates of future operating results or it fails to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the market price of its stock may decrease significantly.   the susceptibility of the company’s operating results to significant fluctuations makes any prediction, including the company’s estimates of future operating results, difficult. in addition, the company believes that period-to-period comparisons of its operating results are not necessarily meaningful and investors should not rely on them as indications of the company’s future performance. the company’s operating results have in the past varied, and may in the future vary significantly due to factors such as the following:     •   demand for its products;     •   the size and timing of significant orders for its products;     •   a slowdown or a decrease in spending on information technology by its current and/or prospective customers;     •   competition from products that are directly competitive with its products;     •   lost revenue from introduction or market acceptance of open source products that are directly competitive with its products;     •   the management, performance and expansion of its international operations;     •   foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;     •   customers’ desire to consolidate their purchases of rich information applications, performance management, business intelligence software to one or a very small number of vendors from which a customer has already purchased software;     •   general domestic and international economic and political conditions, including war, terrorism, and the threat of war or terrorism;     •   sales cycles and sales performance of its indirect channel partners;     •   changes in the way it and its competitors price their respective products and services, including maintenance and transfer fees;     •   continued successful relationships and the establishment of new relationships with oems;     •   changes in its level of operating expenses and its ability to control costs;     •   the cost, outcome or publicity surrounding any pending or threatened lawsuits;     •   ability to make new products and product enhancements commercially available in a timely manner;     •   ability to effectively launch new or enhanced products, including the timely education of the company’s sales, marketing and consulting personnel with respect to such new or enhanced products;     •   customers delaying purchasing decisions in anticipation of new products or product enhancements;   13 table of contents   •   budgeting cycles of its customers;     •   failure to successfully manage acquisitions and integrate acquired companies;     •   defects in products and other product quality problems;     •   failure to successfully meet hiring needs including for qualified professional services employees and unexpected personnel changes;     •   changes in the market segments and types of customers where it focuses sales and marketing efforts;     •   changes in perpetual licensing models to term- or subscription-based models with respect to which license revenue is not fully recognizable at the time of initial sale;     •   changes in service models with respect to which consulting services are performed on a fixed-fee, rather than variable fee, basis; and     •   potential impairments of goodwill, intangibles and other investments.   because the company’s software products are typically shipped shortly after orders are received, total revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped throughout that quarter. furthermore, several factors may require the company, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, to defer recognition of license fee revenue for a significant period of time after entering into a license agreement, including:     •   whether the license agreement includes both software products that are then currently available and software products or other enhancements that are still under development;     •   whether the license agreement relates entirely or partly to software products that are currently not available;     •   whether the license agreement requires the performance of services that may preclude revenue recognition until successful completion of such services;     •   whether the license agreement includes acceptance criteria that may preclude revenue recognition prior to customer acceptance;     •   whether the license agreement includes undelivered elements (including limited terms or durations) that may preclude revenue recognition prior to customer acceptance; and     •   whether the license agreement includes extended payment terms that may delay revenue recognition until the payment becomes due.   in addition, the company may in the future experience fluctuations in its gross and operating margins due to changes in the mix of its domestic and international revenues, changes in the mix of its direct sales and indirect sales and changes in the mix of license revenues and service revenues, as well as changes in the mix among the indirect channels through which its products are offered.   a significant portion of the company’s total revenues in any given quarter is derived from existing customers. the company’s ability to achieve future revenue growth, if any, will be substantially dependent upon its ability to increase revenues from license fees and services from existing customers, to expand its customer base and to increase the average size of its orders. to the extent that such increases do not occur in a timely manner, the company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.   the company’s expense levels and any plans for expansion are based in significant part on its expectations of future revenues and are relatively fixed in the short-term. if revenues fall below expectations and the company is unable to respond quickly by reducing its spending, the company’s business, operating results, and financial condition could be harmed.   14 table of contents the company often implements changes to its license pricing structure for all of its products including increased prices and modified licensing parameters. if these changes are not accepted by the company’s current customers or future customers, its business, operating results, and financial condition could be harmed.   based upon all of the factors described above, the company has a limited ability to forecast the amount and mix of future revenues and expenses and, the company’s actual operating results may from time to time fall below its estimates or the expectations of public market analysts and investors which is likely to cause the price of the company’s common stock to decline.   our debt covenants restrict our financial and operational flexibility.   our credit agreement contains a number of financial covenants, which, among other things, may require us to maintain specified financial ratios and impose certain limitations on us with respect to lines of business, mergers, investments and acquisitions, additional indebtedness, distributions, guarantees, liens and encumbrances. our ability to meet the financial ratios can be affected by operating performance or other events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and failure to do so may cause an event of default under the credit agreement. our indebtedness under the credit agreement is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets and of our subsidiaries, by a pledge of our operating and license subsidiaries’ stock and by a guarantee of our subsidiaries. if the amounts outstanding under the credit agreement were accelerated due to an event of default, the lenders could proceed against such available collateral by forcing the sales of these assets.   the company has made, and may in the future make, acquisitions, which involve numerous risks.   the company’s business is highly competitive, and as such, its growth is dependent upon its ability to expand its market, enhance its existing products, introduce new products on a timely basis and expand its distribution channels and professional services organizations. in order to achieve these objectives, the company had pursued and will continue to pursue acquisitions of other companies. on february 1, 2010, the company completed a tender offer for xenos group inc. (“xenos”).   generally, acquisitions (including that of xenos) involve numerous risks, including the following:     •   the benefits of the acquisition not materializing as planned or not materializing within the time periods or to the extent anticipated;     •   the company’s ability to manage acquired entities’ people and processes that are headquartered in separate geographical locations from the company’s headquarters;     •   the possibility that the company will pay more than the value it derives from the acquisition;     •   difficulties in integration of the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies;     •   the assumption of certain known and unknown liabilities of the acquired companies;     •   difficulties in retaining key relationships with customers, partners and suppliers of the acquired company—specifically in the case of xenos, the loss of recurring revenue from multiple subsidiaries of one large multi-national organization or the ability to sell and support certain third party software.     •   the risk of diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business;     •   the company’s ability to issue new releases of the acquired company’s products on existing or other platforms;     •   negative impact to the company’s financial condition and results of operations and the potential write down of impaired goodwill and intangible assets resulting from the consolidation of financial statements;   15 table of contents   •   risks of entering markets in which the company has no or limited direct prior experience; and     •   the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company.   mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and the company cannot be certain that any acquisition will be successful and will not materially harm the company’s business, operating results or financial condition.   intellectual property claims against the company can be costly and could result in the loss of significant rights.   third parties may claim that the company’s current or future products infringe their intellectual property rights. the company has been subject to infringement claims in the past and it expects that companies in the business intelligence, rich internet applications or performance management software market will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and/or competitors in its industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in significant litigation and other expenses, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require the company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to the company or at all. a successful claim of product infringement against the company and its failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could materially harm the company’s business, operating results and financial condition.   computer “hackers” may damage our systems, services and products, and breaches of data protection could impact our.   computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause interruptions or shutdowns of our internal systems and services. if successful, any of these events could damage our computer systems or those of our customers and could disrupt or prevent us from providing timely maintenance and support for our software platform. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers and may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution and other critical functions.   in the course of our regular business operations and providing maintenance and support services to our customers, we process and transmit proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of employees, customers and others. breaches in security could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, which could result in potential regulatory actions, litigation and potential liability for us, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers and damage to our brand and reputation.   the company may not be able to protect its source code from copying.   source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. although we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code, unauthorized disclosure or reverse engineering of a significant portion of our source code could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins.   16 table of contents if the company fails to grow revenue from international operations and expand its international operations its business would be seriously harmed.   the company’s total revenues derived from sales outside north america were 21%, 23% and 28% for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. its ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend in large part on its success in increasing revenues from international sales. the company intends to continue to invest significant resources to expand its sales and support operations outside north america and to potentially enter additional international markets. in order to expand international sales, the company must establish additional foreign operations, expand its international channel management and support organizations, hire additional personnel, recruit additional international resellers and increase the productivity of existing international resellers. the company intends to continue to shift its focus from direct sales to indirect sales in certain of its international markets in 2011. if it is not successful in expanding international operations in a timely and cost-effective manner, the company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed.   if the company does not successfully expand its distribution channels and develop and maintain relationships with oems, its business would be seriously harmed.   to date, the company has sold its products principally through its direct sales force, as well as through indirect sales channels, such as its oems, resellers and systems integrators. the company’s revenues from license fees resulting from sales through indirect channel partners were approximately 58%, 26%, and 32% of total revenues from license fees for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. the higher ratio of license fees through indirect channel partners experienced in fiscal 2010 was primarily attributed to the oracle and ibm transactions. the company’s ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend in large part on the success of its sales force in further establishing and maintaining relationships with indirect channel partners. in particular, a significant element of the company’s strategy is to embed its technology in products offered by oems for resale or as a hosted application to such oems’ customers and end-users. xenos group’s business in the united kingdom relies on the sale and support of third party software as a significant component of its business. the company also intends to establish and expand its relationships with resellers and systems integrators so that such resellers and systems integrators will increasingly recommend its products to their clients. the company’s future success will depend on the ability of its indirect channel partners to sell and support its products. if the sales and implementation cycles of its indirect channel partners are lengthy or variable or its oems experience difficulties embedding the company’s technology into their products, or if it fails to train the sales and customer support personnel of such indirect channel partners in a timely or effective fashion, the company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be materially harmed.   although the company is currently investing, and plans to continue to invest, significant resources to expand and develop relationships with oems and resellers, it has at times experienced and continues to experience difficulty in establishing and maintaining these relationships. if the company is unable to successfully expand this distribution channel and secure license agreements with additional oems and resellers on commercially reasonable terms, including significant up-front payments of minimum license fees, and extend existing license agreements with existing oems on commercially reasonable terms, the company’s operating results would be adversely affected. any inability by the company to maintain existing or establish new relationships with indirect channel partners, including systems integrators and resellers, or, if such efforts are successful, a failure of the company’s revenues to increase correspondingly with expenses incurred in pursuing such relationships, would materially harm the company’s business, operating results and financial condition.   17 table of contents the company may not be able to compete successfully against its current and future competitors.   the company’s market is intensely competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving standards and product releases by the company’s competitors that are marketed to compete directly with the company’s products. the company’s competition comes in five principal forms:     •   competition from current or future business intelligence software vendors such as information builders, qlik tech, pentaho, jaspersoft and microstrategy, each of which offers reporting products;     •   competition from other large software vendors such as ibm, microsoft, oracle and sap, to the extent they sell rich internet applications and performance management as separate products or include similar functionality with their applications or databases;     •   competition from other software vendors and software development tool vendors including providers of open-source software products that may develop scalable business intelligence, performance management and rich information applications products;     •   competition from the it departments of current or potential customers that may develop scalable business intelligence, performance management and rich information applications products internally, which may be cheaper and more customized than the company’s products; and     •   competition from birt. the company expects that birt, which is free, may in the short term cannibalize some smaller sales of its business intelligence and rich information applications products.   most of the company’s current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than it does. these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than the company. also, most current and potential competitors have greater name recognition and the ability to leverage a significant installed customer base. these companies have released and can continue to release competing business intelligence, performance management and rich information applications software products or significantly increase the functionality of their existing software products, either of which could result in a loss of market share for the company. the company expects additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the business intelligence, performance management and rich internet applications software market and new products and technologies are introduced. increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, longer sales cycles and loss of market share, any of which would harm the company’s business, operating results and financial condition.   current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing their ability to address the needs of the company’s customers. also, the company’s current or future channel partners may have established in the past, or may in the future, establish cooperative relationships with the company’s current or potential competitors, thereby limiting the company’s ability to sell its products through particular distribution channels. it is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. such competition could reduce the company’s revenues from license fees and services from new or existing customers on terms favorable to us. if the company is unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, the company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be materially harmed.   18 table of contents if the market for business intelligence, rich internet applications and performance management software does not grow as the company expects, its business would be seriously harmed.   the company cannot be certain that the market for business intelligence and rich information applications and performance management software products will continue to grow or that, even if the market does grow, businesses will purchase the company’s products. if the market for business intelligence and rich internet applications and performance management software products declines, fails to grow or grows more slowly than the company expects, its business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. to date, all of the company’s revenues have been derived from licenses for its business intelligence and rich information applications and software and performance management related products and services, and it expects this to continue for the foreseeable future. the company has spent, and intends to continue to spend, considerable resources educating potential customers and indirect channel partners about business intelligence and rich information applications and performance management software and its products. however, if such expenditures do not enable its products to achieve any significant degree of market acceptance, the company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be materially harmed.   because the sales cycles of the company’s products are lengthy and variable, its quarterly results may fluctuate.   the purchase of the company’s products by its end-user customers for deployment within the customer’s organization typically involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources, and is therefore subject to delays that are beyond the company’s control. these delays can arise from a customer’s internal procedures to approve large capital expenditures, budgetary constraints, the testing and acceptance of new technologies that affect key operations and general economic and political events. the sales cycle for initial orders and larger follow-on orders for the company’s products can be lengthy and variable. additionally, sales cycles for sales of the company’s products to oems tend to be longer, ranging from 6 to 24 months or more, and may involve convincing the oems’ entire organization that the company’s products are the appropriate software for their applications. this time period does not include the sales and implementation cycles of such oems’ own products, which can be longer than the company’s sales and implementation cycles. certain of the company’s customers have in the past, or may in the future, experience difficulty completing the initial implementation of the company’s products. any difficulties or delays in the initial implementation by the company’s end-user customers or indirect channel partners could cause such customers or partners to reject the company’s software or lead to the delay or non-receipt of future orders for the large-scale deployment of its products, in which case the company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be materially harmed.   advances in hardware and software technology may cause our software revenue to decline.   in the past, the company has licensed software for a certain number of “processors” or “cpus” to many of its customers. advances in hardware technology, including, but not limited to, greater cpu clock speeds, multiple-core processors and virtualization, have afforded software performance gains to some customers, causing them to defer additional software purchases from the company. the occurrence of any of these events, and other future advances, could seriously harm the company’s business, operating results and financial condition. use of the company’s software on more advanced hardware than the hardware on which the software was originally installed, without payment of a fee, is prohibited by the terms of applicable license agreements or company policies. the company intends to require compliance with such terms. as a result of its enforcement efforts, customers may defer or cease purchasing additional software or maintenance and support. the occurrence of any of these events could materially harm the company’s business, operating results and financial condition.   19 table of contents the renewal of maintenance revenue on our older software sales may decline   the company has historically experienced a high maintenance retention rate across its various product lines. as certain of the company’s products age, these retention rates may not be sustained unless the company is successful in providing its customers with more advanced functionality and the levels of support that they require.   if the company is unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting in future periods or if the company’s independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, the company’s stock price could be adversely affected.   pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (“section 404”), the company’s management is required to report on, and its independent auditors are required to attest to, the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting on an annual basis. the company’s assessment, testing and evaluation of the design and operating effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting are ongoing.   our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in rule 13a-15(f) under the exchange act). our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2010, and has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective. in making this assessment, our management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (“coso”) in internal control-integrated framework.   this assessment identified ineffective execution of tax provision review controls because of lack of resources with expertise in non-recurring transactions. this material weakness resulted in a material error in our 2010 income tax provision, which was corrected prior to issuance of the company’s 2010 consolidated financial statements.   our independent registered public accounting firm, kpmg llp, has issued an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2010.   the company plans to remediate the material weakness described in item 9a(b) by implementing enhanced documentation, review and supervision processes over the accounting for income taxes. this includes establishing new procedures and controls in preparing and analyzing non-recurring transactions. if in future periods the company concludes that its internal control over financial reporting is not effective, it may be required to change its internal control over financial reporting to remediate deficiencies. the company cannot predict the outcome of its testing in future periods as risks exist that present controls may not be effective in the future periods and consequently investors may lose confidence in the reliability of the company’s financial statements, causing the company’s stock price to decline.   section 404 and regulatory changes have caused the company to incur increased costs and operating expenses, including additional cost and expenses associated with hiring qualified personnel to comply with such regulatory requirement.   the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and regulatory changes by the sec and nasdaq have caused the company to incur significant increased costs. in particular, the rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess its internal controls over financial reporting under section 404 are complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. this ongoing process of reviewing, documenting and testing the company’s internal controls over financial reporting has resulted in, and will likely continue to   20 table of contents result in ongoing cost to the company. furthermore, achieving and maintaining compliance with sarbanes-oxley and other new rules and regulations has and will continue to require the company to hire additional personnel and to use additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services.   in addition, any acquisitions made by the company will also put a significant strain on its management, information systems and resources. any expansion of the company’s international operations will lead to increased financial and administrative demands associated with managing its international operations and managing an increasing number of relationships with foreign partners and customers and expanded treasury functions to manage foreign currency risks, all of which will require the company to incur additional cost to implement necessary changes to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting.   if the company does not respond to rapid technological changes, its products could become obsolete.   the market for the company’s products is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changing customer demands, and evolving industry standards. any of these factors can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. the company believes that its future success will depend in large part on its ability to support current and future releases of popular operating systems and computer programming languages, databases and software applications, to timely develop new products that achieve market acceptance and to meet an expanding range of customer requirements. if the announcement or introduction of new products by the company or its competitors or any change in industry standards causes customers to defer or cancel purchases of existing products, the company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.   as a result of the complexities inherent in business intelligence, rich information applications and performance management software, major new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. in addition, customers may delay their purchasing decisions in anticipation of the general availability of new or enhanced versions of the company’s products. as a result, significant delays in the general availability of such new releases or significant problems in the installation or implementation of such new releases could harm the company’s business, operating results and financial condition. if the company fails to successfully develop, on a timely and cost effective basis, product enhancements or new products that respond to technological change, evolving industry standards or customer requirements or such new products and product enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance, the company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.   if the company does not release new products and enhancements to existing products in a timely manner or if such new products and enhancements, including the company’s open source project, fail to achieve market acceptance, the company’s business could be seriously harmed.   the company believes that its future success will depend in large part on the success of new products and enhancements to its products that it makes generally available. prior to the release of any new products or enhancements, the products must undergo a long development and testing period. to date, the development and testing of new products and enhancements have taken longer than expected. in the event the development and testing of new products and enhancements continue to take longer than expected, the release of new products and enhancements will be delayed. if the company fails to release new products and enhancements in a timely manner, its business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. in addition, if such new products and enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, the company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.   the company has developed a birt open source product through its involvement in the eclipse foundation. the company hopes that birt and a commercialized version of birt will be widely adopted by   21 table of contents java developers and will result in such developers recommending to their employees and customers that they license the company’s commercially available products. if birt does not achieve market acceptance and result in promoting sales of commercially available products, the company’s business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed.   the success of the company’s open-source birt initiative is dependent on building a developer community around birt.   the success of the company’s birt initiative is dependent on the open source contributions of third-party programmers and corporations, and if they cease to make these contributions to the eclipse open source project, the birt project, or the general open source movement, the company’s birt product strategy could be adversely affected. if key members, or a significant percentage, of this group of developers or corporations decides to cease development of eclipse, birt or other open source applications, the company would have to either rely on another party (or parties) to develop these technologies, develop them itself or adapt its open source product strategy accordingly. this could increase the company’s development expenses, delay its product releases and upgrades or adversely impact customer acceptance of open source offerings.   the company’s international operations are subject to significant risks.   a substantial portion of the company’s revenues is derived from international sales. international operations and sales are subject to a number of risks, any of which could harm the company’s business, operating results and financial conditions. these risks include the following:     •   economic and political instability, including war and terrorism or the threat of war and terrorism;     •   difficulty of managing an organization spread across many countries;     •   multiple and conflicting tax laws and regulations;     •   costs of localizing products for foreign countries;     •   difficulty in hiring employees and difficulties and high costs associated with terminating employees and restructuring operations in foreign countries;     •   trade laws and business practices favoring local competition;     •   dependence on local vendors;     •   increasing dependence on resellers in certain geographies;     •   compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations;     •   weaker intellectual property protection in foreign countries and potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy or misappropriation;     •   longer sales cycles;     •   import and export restrictions and tariffs;     •   difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;     •   the significant presence of some of our competitors in certain international markets;     •   greater difficulty or delay in accounts receivable collection; and     •   foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.   the company hopes that, over time, an increasing portion of its revenues and costs will be denominated in foreign currencies. to the extent such denomination in foreign currencies does occur, gains and losses on the conversion to u.s. dollars of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities   22 table of contents arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in the company’s results of operations. although the company may in the future decide to undertake foreign exchange hedging transactions to cover a portion of its foreign currency transaction exposure, it currently does not attempt to cover any foreign currency exposure. if it is not effective in any future foreign exchange hedging transactions in which it engages, the company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed.   the company’s executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to its business and it may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel it needs.   the company’s future success depends upon the continued service of its executive officers and other key engineering, sales, marketing and customer support personnel. none of its officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. if the company loses the service of one or more of its key employees, or if one or more of its executive officers or key employees decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with it, it could have a significant adverse effect on the company’s business.   in addition, because experienced personnel in the company’s industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, the company has relied on its ability to grant stock options as one mechanism for recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. accounting standards require the expensing of stock options, which impairs the company’s ability to provide these incentives without incurring significant compensation costs. there can be no assurance that the company will continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel in the future.   changes in or interpretations of, accounting standards could result in unfavorable accounting charges.   the company prepares its consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. these principles are subject to interpretation by the sec and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting standards. the company’s accounting policies that recently been or may be affected by changes in the accounting rules are as follows:     •   software revenue recognition;     •   accounting for income taxes;     •   accounting for business combinations and related goodwill;     •   accounting for stock issued to employees; and     •   assessing fair value of financial and non-financial assets.   a change in accounting standards applicable to us can have a significant effect on the company’s reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions.   the company may be unable to sustain or increase its profitability.   while the company was profitable in its last seven fiscal years, it incurred net losses during fiscal year 2003 and 2002. its ability to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis will be affected by changes in its business. it expects its operating expenses to increase as its business grows, and it anticipates that it will make investments in its business. therefore, the company’s results of operations will be harmed if its revenues do not increase at a rate equal to or greater than increases in its expenses or are insufficient for it to sustain profitability.   23 table of contents if the company overestimates revenues, it may be unable to reduce its expenses to avoid or minimize a negative impact on its results of operations.   the company’s revenues are difficult to forecast and are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. the company bases its operating expense budgets on expected revenue trends. the company’s estimates of sales trends may not correlate with actual revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time. variations in the rate and timing of conversion of the company’s sales prospects into actual licensing revenues could cause it to plan or budget inaccurately and those variations could adversely affect the company’s financial results. in particular, delays, reductions in amount or cancellation of customers’ purchases would adversely affect the overall level and timing of the company’s revenues and its business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. in addition, many of its expenses, such as office and equipment leases and certain personnel costs, are relatively fixed. it may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. accordingly, any shortfall in revenue may cause a material variation in operating results in any period.   if the company’s products contain material defects, its revenues may decline.   software products as complex as those offered by the company often contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced, when new versions or enhancements are released and when configured to individual customer computing systems. the company currently has known errors and defects in its products. despite testing conducted by the company, if additional defects and errors are found in current versions, new versions or enhancements of its products after commencement of commercial shipment, or if such errors or defects cannot be cured or repaired timely, it could result in the loss of revenues or a delay in market acceptance or an increase in the rate of return of the company’s products. the occurrence of any of these events could materially harm the company’s business, operating results and financial condition.   the company may be subject to product liability claims.   although license agreements with its customers typically contain provisions designed to limit the company’s exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that such limitation of liability provisions may not be effective as a result of existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions. the sale and support of the company’s products may entail the risk of such claims, which are likely to be substantial in light of the use of its products in business-critical applications. a product liability claim brought against the company could materially harm its business, operating results and financial condition.   the protection of our proprietary rights may be inadequate.   the company has a small number of issued and pending u.s. patents expiring at varying times ranging from 2015 to 2024. the company relies primarily on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary technology. for example, the company licenses its software pursuant to click-wrap or signed license agreements that impose certain restrictions on licensees’ ability to utilize the software. in addition, the company seeks to avoid disclosure of its intellectual property, including by requiring those persons with access to its proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements with the company and by restricting access to its source code. the company takes precautions to protect our software, certain documentation, and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection.   despite the company’s efforts to protect its proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of its products or to obtain and use information that the company regards as proprietary. policing unauthorized use of the company’s products is difficult, and while it is unable to determine the extent to which piracy of its software products exists, software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem. in addition, the   24 table of contents laws of many countries do not protect the company’s proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the united states. if the company’s means of protecting its proprietary rights is not adequate or its competitors independently develop similar technology, the company’s business could be materially harmed.   if securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.   the trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. if any of the analysts who may cover us adversely change their recommendation regarding our stock, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. if any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, interest in our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.   the company’s common stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders.   the market price of shares of the company’s common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and may be significantly affected by factors such as the following:     •   actual or anticipated fluctuations in its operating results;     •   changes in the economic and political conditions in the united states and abroad;     •   terrorist attacks, war or the threat of terrorist attacks and war;     •   the announcement of mergers or acquisitions by the company or its competitors;     •   developments in ongoing or threatened litigation;     •   announcements of technological innovations;     •   failure to comply with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act;     •   new products, including open source products, or new contracts announced by it or its competitors;     •   developments with respect to copyrights or proprietary rights;     •   price and volume fluctuations in the stock market;     •   changes in corporate purchasing of business intelligence, rich information applications and performance management software;     •   adoption of new accounting standards affecting the software industry; and     •   changes in financial estimates by securities analysts.   in addition, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against such companies. if the company is involved in such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and could materially harm the company’s business, operating results and financial condition.   25 table of contents we currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your shares at a price above your cost.   we currently do not intend to declare or pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our company will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your shares at a price above your cost. there is no guarantee that the price of our common stock will ever exceed the price that you pay. investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock.   changes in corporate income tax laws, income tax rates or negative income tax rulings could adversely impact the company’s financial results.   the company is taxable principally in the united states, canada and certain jurisdictions in europe and asia/pacific. all of these jurisdictions have in the past and may in the future make changes to their corporate income tax laws and/or corporate income tax rates, which could increase or decrease the company’s future income tax provision. while the company believes that all material income tax liabilities are reflected properly in its consolidated balance sheet, it has no assurance that it will prevail in all cases in the event the taxing authorities disagree with its interpretations of the tax law. future levels of research and development spending will impact the company’s entitlement to related tax credits, which generally lower its effective income tax rate. future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected if tax laws are enacted that are targeted to eliminate the benefits of the company’s tax structure and if its earnings are lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where the company has statutory tax rates lower than tax rates in the united states or other higher tax jurisdictions.   certain of the company’s charter provisions and delaware law may prevent or deter a change in control of actuate.   the company’s certificate of incorporation, as amended and restated (the “certificate of incorporation”), and bylaws, as amended and restated (“bylaws”), contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the company or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a stockholder might consider favorable, including provisions authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, eliminating the ability of stockholder to act by written consent and requiring stockholders to provide advance notice for proposals and nomination of directors at the annual meeting of stockholder. in addition, certain provisions of delaware law and the company’s stock option plans may also have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. the company has also entered into change of control agreements with its executive officers, which agreements require payment to an executive upon termination of employment within 12 months after acquisition. the anti-takeover effect of these provisions may also have an adverse effect on the public trading price of the company’s common stock.   dependence on the financial services industry could significantly affect the company’s revenues.   a significant portion of the company’s revenues are derived from customers in the financial services industry and the company expects it will continue to derive a significant portion of its revenues from these customers for the foreseeable future. accordingly, unfavorable economic conditions adversely impacting the financial services industry has had a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. for example, the financial services industry has experienced and may continue to experience cyclical fluctuations in profitability, which may affect timing of, or actual purchases of, the company’s products which would have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.   26 table of contents we have substantial indebtedness and debt service requirements.   on november 2, 2008, actuate entered into a four year revolving line of credit agreement with wells fargo foothill, llc (“wff”) as the arranger, administrative agent and lender (the “credit agreement”). the credit agreement was effective as of november 3, 2008. the company used $30 million of the proceeds from the credit agreement in the tender offer it completed in december 2008 and for working capital, issuance of commercial and standby letters of credit, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. on february 1, 2010 we borrowed an additional $10 million under the credit agreement to fund the acquisition of xenos. the acquisition was valued at approximately $34.3 million and was funded using a combination of cash reserves and borrowings available under the credit agreement. at december 31, 2010, our outstanding debt under the credit agreement was $40 million.   the credit agreement allows for cash borrowings and letters of credit under a secured revolving credit facility of up to a maximum of $50 million, but in any event not to exceed 80% of the company’s trailing recurring revenue (as defined in the credit agreement). interest will accrue based on a floating rate based on, at the company’s election, (i) libor or (ii) the greater of (a) the federal funds rate plus an applicable margin or (b) wells fargo’s prime rate, in each case, plus an applicable margin based on the outstanding balance of the amount drawn down under the credit agreement. if the company’s borrowings and letter of credit usage plus any bank product reserves established by wells fargo exceeds 80% of its trailing recurring revenue (as defined in the credit agreement), or if the sum of available funds under the credit agreement plus qualified cash (as defined in the credit agreement) is less than $10 million, the company will be required to meet certain ebitda targets and be subject to a limit on annual capital expenditures, subject to a cure mechanism described in the credit agreement. the company is required to make interest payments and pay an unused commitment fee on a monthly basis. the credit agreement includes limitations on the company’s ability to incur debt, grant liens, make acquisitions, make certain restricted payments such as dividend payments, and dispose of assets. the events of default under the credit agreement include payment defaults, cross defaults with certain other indebtedness, breaches of covenants and bankruptcy events. in the case of a continuing event of default, the lenders under the credit agreement may, among other remedies, eliminate their commitments to make credit available, declare due all unpaid principal amounts outstanding, and require cash collateral for any letter of credit obligations and foreclose on all collateral.   because of our indebtedness, a significant portion of our cash flow from operations is and will be required for debt service. our levels of debt could have negative consequences for us. you should note that:     •   a substantial portion of our cash flow is, and will be, dedicated to debt service and is not, and will not be, available for other purposes;     •   our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes may be impaired in the future;     •   certain of our borrowings are, and will be, at variable rates of interest, which may expose us to the risk of increases in interest rates; and     •   our level of indebtedness could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.   we believe that cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our current debt service requirements for interest and any required prepayments under the credit agreement. however, if such cash flow is not sufficient, we may be required to issue additional debt or equity securities, refinance our obligations, or take other actions in order to make such scheduled payments. we cannot be sure that we would be able to effect any such transactions on favorable terms, if at all. failure to do so may cause an event of default under the credit agreement, which will have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial conditions.   27 table of contents catasrophic events may disrupt our business.   we rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and our website for our development, marketing, operational, support, hosted services and sales activities. a disruption, infiltration or failure of these systems in the event of a major earthquake, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, software or hardware malfunctions, cyber attack, war, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, loss of intellectual property, delays in our product development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders. our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, certain of our data centers, and certain other critical business operations are located in the san francisco bay area, which is near major earthquake faults. we have developed certain disaster recovery plans and certain backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effect of such events, but a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be adversely affected.   item 1b. unresolved