item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be considered. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our business is significantly dependent on sales to gm and chrysler. we are the principal supplier of driveline components to gm for its full-size rwd light trucks and suvs manufactured in north america, supplying substantially all of gm's rear axle and 4wd/awd axle requirements for these vehicle platforms. sales to gm were approximately 71% of our consolidated net sales in 2013 and approximately 73% of our consolidated net sales in both 2012 and 2011. a reduction in our sales to gm or a reduction by gm of its production of rwd light trucks or suvs, as a result of market share losses of gm or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we also supply driveline system products for chrysler's heavy-duty ram full-size pickup trucks and its derivatives, as well as the 2014 awd jeep cherokee. sales to chrysler accounted for approximately 12% of our consolidated net sales in 2013, 10% in 2012 and 8% in 2011. a reduction in our sales to chrysler or a reduction by chrysler of its production of the ram program, as a result of market share losses of chrysler or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our business may also be adversely affected by reduced demand for the product programs we currently support, or if we do not obtain sales orders for successor programs that replace our current product programs. our business is dependent on the rear-wheel drive light truck and suv market segments in north america.   a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from products supporting rwd light truck and suv platforms in north america. sales and production levels of light trucks and suvs are being affected by many factors, including changes in consumer demand; product mix shifts favoring other types of light vehicles, such as front-wheel drive based crossover vehicles and passenger cars; fuel prices; and government regulation, such as the corporate average fuel economy (cafe) regulations and related emissions standards promulgated by federal and state regulators. in 2012, the obama administration announced new cafe standards for cars and light-duty trucks, raising the standard to the equivalent of 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025. our customers are currently planning for these regulations and the potential impact on consumer preferences and demand for vehicles. a reduction in the market segment we currently supply could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. our company or our customers may not be able to successfully and efficiently manage the timing and costs of new product program launches. certain of our customers are preparing to launch, or have recently launched, new product programs for which we will supply newly developed driveline system products and related components.  there can be no assurance that we will successfully complete the transition of our manufacturing facilities and resources to support these new product programs or other future product programs on a timely basis.  accordingly, the launch of new product programs may adversely affect production rates or other operational efficiency and profitability measures at our facilities.  we may also experience difficulties with the performance of our supply chain on program launches, which could result in our inability to meet our contractual obligations to key customers. production shortfalls or production delays, if any, could result in our failure to effectively manage our material and freight costs relating to these program launches. in addition, our customers may delay the launch or fail to successfully execute the launch of these new product programs, or any additional future product program for which we will supply products. our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted if our customers fail to timely launch such programs or if we are unable to manage the timing requirements and costs of new product program launches. 13 our company may not realize all of the revenue expected from our new and incremental business backlog. the realization of incremental revenues from awarded business is inherently subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the accuracy of customer estimates relating to the number of vehicles to be produced in new and existing product programs and the timing of such production. it is also possible that our customers may delay or cancel a product program that has been awarded to us. our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected relative to our current financial plans if we do not realize substantially all the revenue from our new and incremental business backlog. we are under continuing pressure from our customers to reduce our prices. annual price reductions are a common practice in the automotive industry. the majority of our products are sold under long-term contracts with prices scheduled at the time the contracts are established. many of our contracts require us to reduce our prices in subsequent years and most of our contracts allow us to adjust prices for engineering changes. if we must accommodate a customer's demand for higher annual price reductions and are unable to offset the impact of any such price reductions through continued technology improvements, cost reductions or other productivity initiatives, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our business faces substantial competition.   the automotive industry is highly competitive. our competitors include the driveline component manufacturing facilities controlled by certain existing oems, as well as many other domestic and foreign companies possessing the capability to produce some or all of the products we supply. some of our competitors are affiliated with oems and others have economic advantages as compared to our business, such as patents, existing underutilized capacity and lower wage and benefit costs. technology, design, quality, delivery and cost are the primary elements of competition in our industry segment. as a result of these competitive pressures and other industry trends, oems and suppliers are developing strategies to reduce costs. these strategies include supply base consolidation and global sourcing. our business may be adversely affected by increased competition from suppliers benefiting from oem affiliate relationships, bankruptcy reorganization or financial and other resources that we do not possess. our business may also be adversely affected if we do not sustain our ability to meet customer requirements relative to technology, design, quality, delivery and cost. our business could be adversely affected by disruptions in our supply chain and our customers' supply chain. we depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain key components and materials needed for our products. we rely upon, and expect to continue to rely upon, certain suppliers for critical components and materials that are not readily available in sufficient volume from other sources. as we continue to expand our global manufacturing footprint, we need to rely on suppliers in local markets that have not yet proven their ability to meet our requirements. these supply chain characteristics make us susceptible to supply shortages and price increases. in addition, over the past several years, many of our direct material suppliers have filed for bankruptcy protection and restructured their operations to significantly reduce their installed capacity. if production volumes increase rapidly, there can be no assurance that the suppliers of critical components and materials will be able or willing to meet our future needs on a timely basis. a significant disruption in the supply of these materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. natural disasters, such as the earthquake in japan and floods in thailand, affected the automotive industry's supply chain in 2011. although our direct supply chain did not suffer material adverse effects from these natural disasters, future natural disasters could cause a disruption in the supply of critical components to us and our customers and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 14 general global economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our operating performance and results of operations.      the automotive industry has continued to improve over the past four years after suffering the effects of the global financial crisis experienced in 2008 and 2009. while the u.s. seasonally adjusted annual rate of sales (saar) increased to 15.5 million units in 2013 from 14.4 million in 2012 and 12.7 million in 2011, the automotive industry is still recovering from the effects of the unprecedented decline in consumer demand and production volumes. general economic instability may still hinder a full recovery of the domestic automotive industry over the next few years. additionally, continued turmoil in the european credit markets poses a potential threat to global growth and market stability, which could have an adverse impact on the recovery of the automotive industry. deteriorating conditions in the u.s. or global economy that result in another reduction or depressed levels of automotive production and sales by our largest customers may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, in a flat or declining economic environment, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure and customer turnover. our company's global operations are subject to risks and uncertainties.   we have business and technical offices and manufacturing facilities in many foreign countries, including brazil, china, india, mexico, poland, scotland, sweden and thailand. approximately 9,000 of our 12,650 associates are located outside of the u.s. international operations are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting business outside the u.s., such as changes in currency exchange rates, tax laws, price and currency exchange controls, import restrictions, nationalization, expropriation and other governmental action. our global operations may also be adversely affected by political events and domestic or international terrorist events and hostilities. these uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on the continuity of our business and our results of operations and financial condition. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product recall or field action, product liability and warranty claims, litigation and other disputes and claims. we are exposed to warranty, product recall or field action and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected, and we may be required to participate in a recall of such products. beginning in 2011, we have an increased level of warranty responsibility for our products, per our contractual agreements with our largest customer gm. prior to 2011, we experienced negligible warranty charges from our customers due to the quality, reliability and durability performance of our products. we are not responsible for certain warranty claims that may be incurred by our customer. this includes returned components for which no trouble was found upon inspection, discretionary acts of dealer goodwill, defects related to directed buy components, or build to print design issues. we review warranty claim activity in detail, and we may have disagreements with our customers as to responsibility for these types of costs incurred by our customer. in addition, as we continue to diversify our customer base, we have an increased obligation to share in the cost of providing warranties as part of our agreements with new customers. costs and expenses associated with warranties, field actions, product recalls and product liability claims could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and may differ materially from the estimated liabilities that we have recorded in our consolidated financial statements. we are also involved in various legal proceedings incidental to our business. although we believe that none of these matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any such legal proceeding or any future legal proceedings. our business could be adversely affected by volatility in the price of raw materials. worldwide commodity market conditions have resulted in volatility in the cost of steel and other metallic materials in recent years. as general economic conditions have improved and customer demand has increased, the cost of steel and metallic materials needed for our products has increased. if we are unable to pass cost increases on to our customers, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 15 a failure of our information technology (it) networks and systems, or the inability to successfully implement upgrades to our enterprise resource planning systems, could adversely impact our business and operations. we rely upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes or activities. additionally, we and certain of our third-party vendors collect and store personal information in connection with human resources operations and other aspects of our business. the secure operation of these information technology networks and systems and the proper processing and maintenance of this information are critical to our business operations. despite the implementation of security measures, our it systems are at risk to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized access, cyber attack and other similar disruptions. the occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed or lost. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, the disruption of our operations or damage to our reputation. we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. further, we are continually expanding and updating our networks and systems in response to the changing needs of our business. we are currently in the process of developing and testing global enterprise resource planning (erp) systems to upgrade many of our existing operating and financial systems. we will begin implementing these erp systems in the second half of 2014. such an implementation is a major undertaking, both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. should the systems not be implemented successfully, or if the systems do not perform in a satisfactory manner once implementation is complete, our business and operations could be disrupted and our results of operations could be adversely affected, including our ability to report accurate and timely financial results. our business could be adversely affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations.   the majority of our hourly associates worldwide are members of industrial trade unions employed under the terms of collective bargaining agreements. substantially all of our hourly associates in the u.s. are represented by the uaw. approximately 4,250 of our hourly associates at our facilities in mexico and brazil are also covered by collective bargaining agreements which expire annually. there can be no assurance that future negotiations with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not experience a work stoppage or disruption that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, there can be no assurance that such future negotiations will not result in labor cost increases or other terms and conditions that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition or our ability to compete for future business. our company's ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel. our success depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key associates. in addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. the loss of the services of our executive officers or other key associates, or the failure to attract or retain associates, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our financial condition and operations may be adversely affected by a violation of financial and other covenants. our amended revolving facility contains financial covenants related to secured and unsecured indebtedness leverage and interest coverage.  the amended revolving facility limits our ability to make certain investments, loans and guarantees, declare dividends or distributions on capital stock, redeem or repurchase capital stock and certain debt obligations, incur liens, incur indebtedness, enter into certain restrictive agreements, merge, make acquisitions or sell all or substantially all of our assets.  the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes also restricts our ability to incur debt secured by liens, engage in consolidations or mergers or sell all or substantially all of our assets, and engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions. the amended revolving facility also significantly restricts our ability to incur additional secured debt.  the amended revolving facility and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes also include customary events of default.  obligations under the amended revolving facility, the 7.75% senior unsecured notes due 2019 (7.75% notes), the 6.625% senior unsecured notes due 2022 (6.625% notes), the 6.25% senior unsecured notes due 2021 (6.25% notes) and our 5.125% senior unsecured notes due 2019 (5.125% notes) are required to be guaranteed by most of our u.s. 16 subsidiaries that hold domestic assets.  in addition, the amended revolving facility is secured on a first priority basis by all or substantially all of our assets, the assets of holdings and each guarantor's assets, including a pledge of capital stock of our u.s. subsidiaries that hold domestic assets, including each guarantor, and a portion of the capital stock of the first tier foreign subsidiaries of aam.  a violation of any of these covenants or agreements could result in a default under these contracts, which could permit the lenders or note holders to accelerate repayment of any borrowings or notes outstanding at that time and levy on the collateral granted in connection with these contracts.  a default or acceleration under the amended revolving facility or the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes may result in increased capital costs and defaults under our other debt agreements and may adversely affect our ability to operate our business, our subsidiaries' and guarantors' ability to operate their respective businesses and our results of operations and financial condition. our company faces substantial pension and other postretirement benefit obligations.   we have significant pension and other postretirement benefit obligations to certain of our associates and retirees. our ability to satisfy the funding requirements associated with these obligations will depend on our cash flow from operations and our ability to access credit and the capital markets. the funding requirements of these benefit plans, and the related expense reflected in our financial statements, are affected by several factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and volatility, including governmental regulation. key assumptions used to value these benefit obligations and the cost of providing such benefits, funding requirements and expense recognition include the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on pension assets and the health care cost trend rate. if the actual trends in these factors are less favorable than our assumptions, this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our business is subject to costs associated with environmental, health and safety regulations. our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials. we believe that our operations and facilities have been and are being operated in compliance, in all material respects, with such laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. the operation of our manufacturing facilities entails risks in these areas, however, and there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities. in addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or other pertinent requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future by governmental authorities. we may be unable to consummate and successfully integrate acquisitions and joint ventures. as we continue to expand globally, we have engaged, and may continue to engage, in acquisitions and joint ventures that involve potential risks, including failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of such acquisitions and joint ventures. integrating acquired operations is a significant challenge and there is no assurance that we will be able to manage the integrations successfully. failure to successfully integrate acquired operations or to realize the expected benefits of such acquisitions may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. item 1b. unresolved