item 1a.     risk factors   the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be considered. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.   general economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our operating performance and results of operations.      the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 greatly impacted our business and our customers' business in the u.s. and globally. the u.s. saar declined significantly over this period. during 2009, the automotive industry experienced its lowest u.s. domestic selling rate in over 25 years. while the u.s. saar increased to 11.6 million units in 2010, the automotive industry is still recovering from the effects of the unprecedented declines in consumer demand. weakness or deteriorating conditions in the u.s. or global economy that results in another reduction or continued depressed levels of automotive production and sales by our largest customers may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, in a down-cycle economic environment, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure and customer turnover.   our business is significantly dependent on sales to gm and chrysler.   we are the principal supplier of driveline components to gm for its rwd light trucks and suvs manufactured in north america, supplying substantially all of gm's rwd and 4wd/awd axle requirements for these vehicle platforms. sales to gm were approximately 75% of our total net sales in 2010, 78% in 2009 and 74% in 2008. a reduction in our sales to gm or a reduction by gm of its production of rwd light trucks or suvs, as a result of market share losses of gm or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   we are also the principal supplier of driveline system products for chrysler's dodge ram program and its derivatives. sales to chrysler accounted for approximately 9% of our total net sales in 2010, 8% in 2009 and 10% in 2008. a reduction in our sales to chrysler or a reduction by chrysler of its production of the dodge ram program, as a result of market share losses of chrysler or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   our business and financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the various commercial and financing agreements with gm.   as part of the 2009 agreements with gm, we entered into a settlement and commercial agreement, an access and security agreement, a second lien term loan facility and a warrant agreement. these agreements govern our commercial relationship with gm and provide aam with expedited payment terms of “net 10 days” at a 1% discount rate and a second lien term loan facility through december 31, 2013, although we may voluntarily terminate the expedited payment terms and second lien term loan facility after june 30, 2011. upon the occurrence of certain specified events, which generally involve a material and imminent breach of our supply obligations at any specified facility, the access and security agreement provides gm with the right of use and access to the operating assets and real estate used by aam at such facility to manufacture, process and ship gm component parts produced at such aam facility and to use certain of aam's intellectual property necessary to manufacture such component parts on a royalty-free basis for up to 360 days, as well as to resource component part production to alternative suppliers. the invoking of its right of access by gm could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and financial condition. 11   our business is dependent on the rear-wheel drive light truck and suv market segments in north america.   a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from products supporting rwd light truck and suv platforms in north america. sales and production levels of light trucks and suvs are being affected by many factors, including changes in consumer demand; product mix shifts favoring other types of light vehicles, such as front-wheel drive based crossover vehicles and passenger cars; fuel prices; and government regulation, such as the corporate average fuel economy (cafe) regulations and related emissions standards promulgated by federal and state regulators. in 2010, u.s. congress enacted new cafe regulations that would increase the u.s. fuel-economy standard industry average to 35 miles per gallon by year 2016, while light trucks will be required to meet nearly 28 miles per gallon by 2016. our customers are currently reacting to these regulations, including the potential impact on consumer preferences and demand for vehicles. a reduction in the market segment we currently supply could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.   our financial condition and operations may be adversely affected by a violation of financial and other covenants.   our revolving credit facility and second lien term loan facility contain financial covenants related to secured indebtedness leverage and interest coverage.  the revolving credit facility, second lien term loan facility and our 9.25% senior secured notes due 2017 (9.25% notes) impose limitations on our ability to make certain investments, declare dividends or distributions on capital stock, redeem or repurchase capital stock and certain debt obligations, incur liens, incur indebtedness, merge, make acquisitions or sell all or substantially all of our assets.  the revolving credit facility and the 9.25% notes also significantly restrict our ability to incur additional secured debt.  the revolving credit facility, second lien term loan facility, 9.25% notes and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes also include customary events of default.  obligations under the revolving credit facility, second lien term loan facility and the 9.25% notes are guaranteed by our u.s. subsidiaries that hold domestic assets.  in addition, the revolving credit facility and the 9.25% notes are secured on a first priority basis (and the second lien term loan facility is on a second priority basis) by all or substantially all of our assets, the assets of holdings and each guarantor's assets, including a pledge of capital stock of our u.s. subsidiaries that hold domestic assets and a portion of the capital stock of the first tier foreign subsidiaries of aam and each guarantor.  a violation of any of these covenants or agreements could result in a default under these contracts, which could permit the lenders or note holders to accelerate repayment of any borrowings or notes outstanding at that time and levy on the collateral granted in connection with these contracts.  a default or acceleration under the revolving credit facility, 9.25% notes, indentures governing our senior unsecured notes or the second lien term loan facility may result in increased capital costs and defaults under our other debt agreements and may adversely affect our ability to operate our business, our subsidiaries and guarantors' ability to operate their business and our results of operations and financial condition.   our company may not realize all of the revenue expected from our new business backlog.   the realization of incremental revenues from awarded business is inherently subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the accuracy of customer estimates relating to the number of vehicles to be produced in new and existing product programs and the timing of such production. it is also possible that our customers may choose to delay or cancel a product program for which we have been awarded new business. our revenues, operating results and financial position could be adversely affected relative to our current financial plans if we do not realize substantially all the revenue from our new business backlog. 12   our company or our customers may not be able to successfully launch new product programs on a timely basis.   certain of our customers are preparing to launch new product programs for which we will supply newly developed driveline system products and related components. some of these new product program launches have required, and will continue to require, substantial capital investment. we may not be able to install and certify the equipment needed to produce products for these new product programs in time for the start of production. there can be no assurance that we will successfully complete the transition of our manufacturing facilities and resources to support these new product programs or any other future product programs. accordingly, the launch of new product programs may adversely affect production rates or other operational efficiency and profitability measures at our facilities. in addition, our customers may delay the launch or fail to successfully execute the launch of these product programs, or any additional future product program for which we will supply products.   we may incur material losses and costs as a result of product recall, product liability and warranty claims, litigation and other disputes and claims.   we are exposed to warranty, product recall and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected, and we may be required to participate in a recall of such products. historically, we have experienced negligible warranty charges from our customers due to our contractual arrangements and the quality, warranty, reliability and durability performance of our products. as part of the 2009 settlement and commercial agreement, aam has agreed to expanded warranty cost sharing with gm beginning in 2011. in addition, as we continue to diversify our customer base, we will also be obligated to share in the cost of providing warranties as part of our agreements with new customers. costs and expenses associated with warranties, product recalls and product liability claims could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and may differ materially from the estimated liabilities that we have recorded in our consolidated financial statements.   we are also involved in various legal proceedings incidental to our business. although we believe that none of these matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any such legal proceeding or any future legal proceedings.   our business could be adversely affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations.   substantially all of our hourly associates worldwide are members of industrial trade unions employed under the terms of collective bargaining agreements. substantially all of our hourly associates in the u.s. are represented by the uaw. approximately 325 of our uaw represented associates are covered by labor agreements that expire on february 25, 2012. approximately 3,150 of our hourly associates at our facilities in mexico and brazil are also covered by collective bargaining agreements which expire annually. there can be no assurance that future negotiations with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not experience a work stoppage that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, there can be no assurance that such future negotiations will not result in labor cost increases or other terms and conditions that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition or our ability to compete for future business.   we may undertake further restructuring actions.   we have taken restructuring actions in recent years in order to realign and resize our production capacity and cost structure to meet current and projected operational and market requirements. if we are required to take further restructuring actions, the charges related to these actions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   our business could be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the automotive industry.   our operations are cyclical because they are directly related to worldwide automotive production, which is itself cyclical and dependent on general economic conditions and other factors, such as credit availability, interest rates, fuel prices and consumer confidence. our business may be further adversely affected by another economic decline that results in a further reduction of automotive production and sales by our largest customers. our business may also be adversely affected by reduced demand for the product programs we currently support, or if we do not obtain sales orders for new or redesigned products that replace our current product programs.   13 our business could be adversely affected by disruptions in our supply chain.   we depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain key components and materials needed for our products. we rely upon, and expect to continue to rely upon, certain suppliers for critical components and materials that are not readily available in sufficient volume from other sources. as we expand our global manufacturing footprint, we will need to rely on suppliers in local markets that have not yet proven their ability to meet our requirements. these supply chain characteristics make us susceptible to supply shortages and price increases. in addition, in recent years, several of our direct material suppliers have filed for bankruptcy protection and restructured their operations to significantly reduce their installed capacity. if production volumes increase rapidly, there can be no assurance that the suppliers of critical components and materials will be able or willing to meet our future needs on a timely basis. a significant disruption in the supply of these materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   our business could be adversely affected by volatility in the price of raw materials.   worldwide commodity market conditions have resulted in volatility in the cost of steel and other metallic materials in recent years. as general economic conditions and customer demand increase, the cost of such steel and metallic materials needed for our products has increased. if we are unable to pass cost increases on to our customers, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   our company's global operations are subject to risks and uncertainties.   we have business and technical offices and manufacturing facilities in many countries, including mexico, brazil, the u.k., china, poland, india, thailand and sweden. approximately 5,075 of our 7,850 associates are located outside of the u.s. international operations are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting business outside the u.s., such as changes in currency exchange rates, tax laws, price and currency exchange controls, import restrictions, nationalization, expropriation and other governmental action. our global operations may also be adversely affected by political events and domestic or international terrorist events and hostilities. these uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on the continuity of our business and our results of operations and financial condition. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks.   our business faces substantial competition.   the automotive industry is highly competitive. our competitors include the driveline component manufacturing facilities controlled by certain existing oems, as well as many other domestic and foreign companies possessing the capability to produce some or all of the products we supply. some of our competitors are affiliated with oems and others have economic advantages as compared to our business, such as patents, existing underutilized capacity and lower wage and benefit costs. technology, design, quality, delivery and cost are the primary elements of competition in our industry segment. as a result of these competitive pressures and other industry trends, oems and suppliers are developing strategies to reduce costs. these strategies include supply base consolidation and global sourcing. our business may be adversely affected by increased competition from suppliers benefiting from oem affiliate relationships, bankruptcy reorganization or financial and other resources that we do not possess. our business may also be adversely affected if we do not sustain our ability to meet customer requirements relative to technology, design, quality, delivery and cost.   we may be unable to consummate and successfully integrate acquisitions and joint ventures.   as we continue to expand globally, we have, and may continue to, engage in acquisitions and joint ventures that involve potential risks, including failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of such acquisitions and joint ventures. integrating acquired operations is a significant challenge and there is no assurance that we will be able to manage the integrations successfully. failure to successfully integrate acquired operations or to realize the expected benefits of such acquisitions may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 14   our company faces rising costs for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations.   we have significant pension and other postretirement benefit obligations to certain of our associates and retirees. our ability to satisfy the funding requirements associated with these obligations will depend on our cash flow from operations and our ability to access credit and the capital markets. the funding requirements of these benefit plans, and the related expense reflected in our financial statements, are affected by several factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and volatility, including governmental regulation. key assumptions used to value these benefit obligations and the cost of providing such benefits, funding requirements and expense recognition include the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on pension assets and the health care cost trend rate. if the actual trends in these factors are less favorable than our assumptions, this could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition.   we are under continuing pressure from our customers to reduce our prices.   annual price reductions are a common practice in the automotive industry. the majority of our products are sold under long-term contracts with prices scheduled at the time the contracts are established. many of our contracts require us to reduce our prices in subsequent years and most of our contracts allow us to adjust prices for engineering changes. if we must accommodate a customer's demand for higher annual price reductions and are unable to offset the impact of any such price reductions through continued technology improvements, cost reductions and other productivity initiatives, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.   our business is subject to costs associated with environmental, health and safety regulations.   our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials. we believe that our operations and facilities have been and are being operated in compliance, in all material respects, with such laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. the operation of our manufacturing facilities entails risks in these areas, however, and there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities. in addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or other pertinent requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future by governmental authorities.   our company's ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel.   our success depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key associates. in addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. the loss of the services of our executive officers or other key associates, or the failure to attract or retain associates, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   item 1b.     unresolved