item 1a. risk factors. you should consider carefully the following information about the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report and in our other public filings in evaluating our business. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. in these circumstances, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. risks related to our business we expect our net losses to continue for at least several years and are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. we have experienced significant net losses since our inception. as of december 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $324.1 million. while we did report net income in 2010 due to recognition of revenue following the conclusion of our collaboration with biovail laboratories international srl, a subsidiary of biovail corporation, we expect to incur net losses over the next several years as we advance our programs and incur significant clinical development costs. we have not received, and do not expect to receive for at least the next several years, any revenues from the commercialization of our product candidates. substantially all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 were from our collaborations with biovail, allergan, and meiji seika as well as our agreements with other parties. we anticipate that collaborations, which provide us with research funding and potential milestone payments and royalties, will continue to be our primary source of revenues for the next several years. in connection with our october 2010 agreement with biovail to end our collaboration and regain all rights to pimavanserin, during the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded as revenue all of the remaining $25.9 million of deferred revenue from the biovail collaboration and the $8.75 million one-time payment received upon the termination of this collaboration. there will be no additional revenue from this collaboration and, as a result, we expect our revenues to decrease significantly beginning in the first quarter of 2011. we cannot be certain that the milestones required to trigger payments under our other existing collaborations will be reached or that we will secure additional collaboration agreements. to obtain revenues from our product candidates, we must succeed, either alone or with others, in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, and manufacturing and marketing drugs with significant market potential. we may never succeed in these activities, and may never generate revenues that are significant enough to achieve profitability. we depend on collaborations with third parties to develop and commercialize selected product candidates and to provide substantially all of our revenues. a key aspect of our strategy is to selectively enter into collaboration agreements with third parties. we currently rely, and will continue to rely, on our collaborators for financial resources and for development, regulatory, and commercialization expertise for selected product candidates. the ongoing research term of our agreements with allergan will end in march 2011, unless extended, and additional payments from our agreements with allergan and meiji seika are dependent on successful advancement of our applicable product candidates. there is no guarantee that revenues from our ongoing collaborations will continue at current or past levels. given the current economic environment, it is possible that our existing collaborators may elect to reduce their external spending. our collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products using our product candidates or technologies because they:     •   do not have sufficient resources or decide not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints such as limited cash or human resources or a change in strategic focus;   18 table of contents   •   decide to pursue a competitive product developed outside of the collaboration; or     •   cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. for example, allergan has announced that it is seeking a partner for further development and commercialization of drug candidates in our chronic pain program. if allergan is unable to successfully partner this program, it may elect to not pursue further development. in addition, any partner that allergan does identify may devote substantially less resources than allergan has devoted to our chronic pain program to date. each of meiji seika and allergan can terminate our existing collaborations under specific circumstances, including in some cases the right to terminate without cause upon prior notice. we may not be able to renew our existing collaborations on acceptable terms, if at all. we also face competition in our search for new collaborators, if we seek a new partner for our pimavanserin program. given the current economic environment, it is possible that competition for new collaborators may increase. if we are unable to renew any existing collaboration or find new collaborations, we may not be able to continue advancing our programs alone. if we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to successfully develop products. we have consumed substantial amounts of capital since our inception. our cash and investment securities totaled approximately $37.1 million at december 31, 2010. in january 2011, we raised net proceeds of approximately $13.8 million from a private equity financing. while we believe that our existing cash resources and anticipated payments from our collaborations will be sufficient to fund our cash requirements at least into the first half of 2013, we will require significant additional financing in the future to continue to fund our operations. our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors including:     •   progress in, and the costs of, our preclinical studies and clinical trials and other research and development programs;     •   the scope, prioritization and number of our research and development programs;     •   the ability of our collaborators and us to reach the milestones, and other events or developments, triggering payments under our collaboration agreements or to otherwise make payments under these agreements;     •   the extent to which we are obligated to reimburse our collaborators or our collaborators are obligated to reimburse us for clinical trial costs under our collaboration agreements;     •   the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, enforcing and defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights;     •   the costs of securing manufacturing arrangements for clinical or commercial production;     •   the costs of establishing or contracting for sales and marketing capabilities if we obtain regulatory clearances to market our product candidates; and     •   the costs associated with litigation. until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment securities, strategic collaborations, private or public sales of our securities, debt financings, or by licensing all or a portion of our product candidates or technology. turmoil in the financial markets has adversely affected the market capitalizations of many biotechnology companies, including us, and generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain. this, coupled with other factors, may limit our access to additional financing over the near-term future. this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access sufficient funding, including pursuant to our committed equity financing facility, or ceff, or from other sources. in addition, according to its terms, our ceff will expire in august 2011. we   19 table of contents cannot be certain that additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. if funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. additional funding, if obtained, may significantly dilute existing stockholders, including any funds that may be raised under the ceff. we do not have a partner for the development of our lead product candidate, pimavanserin, and are solely responsible for the advancement of this program. following a september 2010 merger of biovail corporation, the parent of our then-collaborator biovail, in october 2010, we entered into an agreement with biovail to end our collaboration regarding north american rights to pimavanserin. this agreement allowed us to regain the rights that we had licensed to biovail and receive a one-time payment of $8.75 million. pursuant to the collaboration, biovail had been responsible for funding development of pimavanserin, and seeking regulatory approval for and any future marketing of pimavanserin in north america. following the end of the collaboration, we now have full responsibility for the pimavanserin program. we expect our research and development costs to continue to be substantial for the continued development of pimavanserin. while we are continuing to run the ongoing trials for pimavanserin, we would need to add resources in the future in order to take this product candidate to market, if we do not secure another partner. our most advanced product candidates are in clinical trials, which are long, expensive and unpredictable, and there is a high risk of failure. preclinical testing and clinical trials are long, expensive and unpredictable processes that can be subject to delays. it may take several years to complete the preclinical testing and clinical development necessary to commercialize a drug, and delays or failure can occur at any stage. interim results of clinical trials do not necessarily predict final results, and success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials even after promising results in earlier trials. our drug development programs are at various stages of development and the historical rate of failures for product candidates is extremely high. in fact, we previously had an unsuccessful phase iii trial with our product candidate, pimavanserin. in july 2010, we announced the initiation of the -020 study, a new phase iii trial with pimavanserin for the treatment of parkinson’s disease psychosis. an unfavorable outcome in our phase iii trial with pimavanserin would be a major set-back for the program and for our company, generally. in particular, an unfavorable outcome in this or other studies in our pimavanserin program may require us to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate this program and could have a material adverse effect on our company and the value of our common stock. in addition to our pimavanserin program, we also have clinical programs in collaboration with allergan for the treatment of chronic pain and glaucoma, which are in phase ii and phase i development, respectively. in connection with clinical trials, we face risks that:     •   a product candidate may not prove to be efficacious;     •   patients may die or suffer other adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to the product candidate being tested;     •   the results may not confirm the positive results of earlier trials; and     •   the results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda, or other regulatory agencies. if we do not successfully complete preclinical and clinical development, we will be unable to market and sell products derived from our product candidates and to generate product revenues. even if we do successfully complete clinical trials, those results are not necessarily predictive of results of additional trials that may be   20 table of contents needed before a new drug application, or nda, may be submitted to the fda. of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of an nda to the fda and even fewer are approved for commercialization. delays, suspensions and terminations in our clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate product revenues. the commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in:     •   demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial;     •   reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites;     •   manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate;     •   obtaining approval of an investigational new drug application, or ind, from the fda;     •   obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective clinical trial site; and     •   patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical trial sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. once a clinical trial has begun, it may be delayed, suspended or terminated due to a number of factors, including:     •   ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials or requests by them for supplemental information with respect to our clinical trial results;     •   failure to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements;     •   lower than anticipated screening or retention rates of patients in clinical trials;     •   serious adverse events or side effects experienced by participants; and     •   insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidates or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials. many of these factors may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a current or potential product candidate. if we experience delays, suspensions or terminations in a clinical trial, the commercial prospects for the related product candidate will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. if conflicts arise with our collaborators, they may act in their self interests, which may be adverse to our interests. conflicts may arise in our collaborations due to one or more of the following:     •   disputes or breaches with respect to payments that we believe are due under the applicable agreements, particularly in the current economic environment when companies, including large established ones, may be seeking to reduce external payments;     •   disputes on strategy as to what development or commercialization activities should be pursued under the applicable agreements;     •   disputes as to the responsibility for conducting development and commercialization activities pursuant to the applicable collaboration, including the payment of costs related thereto;   21 table of contents   •   disagreements with respect to ownership of intellectual property rights;     •   unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities, or to permit public disclosure of these activities;     •   delay of a collaborator’s development or commercialization efforts with respect to our product candidates; or     •   termination or non-renewal of the collaboration. conflicts arising with our collaborators could impair the progress of our product candidates, harm our reputation, result in a loss of revenues, reduce our cash position, and cause a decline in our stock price. in addition, in our collaborations, we generally have agreed not to conduct independently, or with any third party, any research that is directly competitive with the research conducted under the applicable program. our collaborations may have the effect of limiting the areas of research that we may pursue, either alone or with others. our collaborators, however, may develop, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with the products or potential products that are the subject of these collaborations. competing products, either developed by our collaborators or to which our collaborators have rights, may result in the allocation of resources by our competitors to competing products and their withdrawal of support for our product candidates or may otherwise result in lower demand for our potential products. we have collaborations with allergan for the development of product candidates related to chronic pain and ophthalmic diseases, including glaucoma. allergan currently markets therapeutic products to treat glaucoma and is engaged in other research programs related to glaucoma and other ophthalmic products that are independent from our development program in this therapeutic area. allergan is also pursuing other research programs related to pain management that are independent from our collaboration in this therapeutic area. our collaboration with meiji seika is initially focused on the advancement of pro-cognitive drugs, or pcaps, as a treatment for schizophrenia and related disorders. while meiji seika has rights to the pcaps in the asian territory, we have the right to pursue them, alone or with a partner, in the rest of the world. we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and perform data collection and analysis, which may result in costs and delays that prevent us from successfully commercializing product candidates. although we design and manage our current preclinical studies and clinical trials, we currently do not have the ability to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates on our own. in addition to our collaborators, we rely on contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators, and contract laboratories to perform data collection and analysis and other aspects of our clinical trials. in addition, we also rely on third parties to assist with our preclinical studies, including studies regarding biological activity, safety, absorption, metabolism, and excretion of product candidates. our preclinical activities or clinical trials may be delayed, suspended, or terminated if:     •   these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or fail to meet regulatory obligations or expected deadlines;     •   these third parties need to be replaced; or     •   the quality or accuracy of the data obtained by these third parties is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons. failure to perform by these third parties may increase our development costs, delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval, and delay or prevent the commercialization of our product candidates. we currently use several contract research organizations to perform services for our preclinical studies and clinical trials. while we   22 table of contents believe that there are numerous alternative sources to provide these services, in the event that we seek such alternative sources, we may not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without delays or additional expenditures. even if we or our collaborators successfully complete the clinical trials of product candidates, the product candidates may fail for other reasons. even if we or our collaborators successfully complete the clinical trials of product candidates, the product candidates may fail for other reasons, including the possibility that the product candidates will:     •   fail to receive the regulatory clearances required to market them as drugs;     •   be subject to proprietary rights held by others requiring the negotiation of a license agreement prior to marketing;     •   be difficult or expensive to manufacture on a commercial scale;     •   have adverse side effects that make their use less desirable; or     •   fail to compete with product candidates or other treatments commercialized by competitors. our committed equity financing facility may not be available to us if we elect to make a draw down, may require us to make additional “blackout” or other payments to kingsbridge capital limited and may result in dilution to our stockholders. pursuant to the ceff, kingsbridge committed to purchase up to the lesser of $60 million or up to approximately 7 million shares of our common stock over a three-year period ending in august 2011. through february 2011, we have raised an aggregate of $1.9 million through the issuance of 1.7 million shares of our common stock. kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase shares under the ceff unless specified conditions are met, which include a minimum price of $0.90 for our common stock, the effectiveness of a registration statement registering for resale the shares of common stock to be issued in connection with the ceff, and customary other conditions, such as accuracy of representations and warranties and compliance with applicable laws. kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the ceff under certain circumstances. if we are unable to access funds through the ceff or kingsbridge terminates the ceff, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms or at all. in connection with the ceff, we filed a registration statement with the sec to register the resale of shares of our common stock that may be issued pursuant to the ceff or upon exercise of the warrant we issued to kingsbridge in connection with establishing the ceff. this registration statement was declared effective by the sec on september 23, 2008. we are entitled, in certain circumstances, to deliver a “blackout” notice to kingsbridge to suspend the use of the prospectus, which is a part of such registration statement, and prohibit kingsbridge from selling shares under that prospectus for a certain period of time. if we deliver a blackout notice in the 15 trading days following the settlement of a draw down, or if the registration statement covering the resale of the shares of common stock to be issued in connection with the ceff is not effective in circumstances not permitted by our registration rights agreement with kingsbridge, then we must make a payment to kingsbridge, or issue kingsbridge additional shares in lieu of this payment, calculated on the basis of a specified number of shares held by kingsbridge immediately prior to the blackout period and the change in the market price of our common stock during the period in which the use of the resale registration statement is suspended. if the trading price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the resale registration statement, the blackout or other payment could be significant. if we sell shares to kingsbridge under the ceff, or issue shares in lieu of any blackout payment, it will have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our current stockholders, and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. if we draw down amounts under the ceff, we will issue shares to kingsbridge at a   23 table of contents discount of up to 12% from the volume weighted average price of our common stock. if we draw down amounts under the ceff when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. issuances in the face of a declining share price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our share price were stable or increasing and may further decrease our share price. if we do not realize the expected benefits from the reductions of our swedish activities following our restructurings, our operating results and financial conditions could be negatively impacted. in 2008 and 2009, we implemented restructurings designed to streamline our operations, reduce our internal operating expenses, and extend our cash runway. as part of the restructurings, we focused our resources on our most advanced product candidates and substantially reduced our early-stage programs. in connection with these efforts, our swedish subsidiary substantially reduced its headcount and its research activities. this subsidiary is a party to a lease agreement that extends to june 2015. in connection with its reductions, the swedish subsidiary has been seeking to reduce the obligations under this lease due to its minimal operations and assets. however, the subsidiary may not be able to reach an agreement with the leaseholder to reduce the remaining lease amounts on acceptable terms or at all. while the lease was signed by our swedish subsidiary and the parent company is not a party to the lease, and we do not believe that the parent company is responsible for any lease amounts, there can be no assurance that the leaseholder will not seek to recover against the parent company or force our swedish subsidiary into bankruptcy. if we are forced to pay any amounts to the swedish leaseholder or incur other charges related to operations in sweden, our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. our product candidates may not gain acceptance among physicians, patients, and the medical community, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenues. even if our product candidates are approved for commercial sale by the fda or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product candidate by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payors, and our profitability and growth will depend on a number of factors, including:     •   the ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy;     •   relative convenience and ease of administration;     •   the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects;     •   availability of alternative treatments;     •   pricing and cost effectiveness, which may be subject to regulatory control;     •   effectiveness of our or our collaborators’ sales and marketing strategy; and     •   our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. if any product candidate that we discover and/or develop does not provide a treatment regimen that is as beneficial as the current standard of care or otherwise does not provide patient benefit, that product will not achieve market acceptance and we will not generate sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability. if we are unable to attract, retain, and motivate key management and scientific staff, our drug development programs and our research and discovery efforts may be delayed and we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. our success depends on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. in particular, our development programs depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled development personnel, especially in the fields of central nervous system disorders, including neuropsychiatric and related disorders. in the future, we may need to hire additional personnel if we expand our research and development efforts from our current levels. we face competition for experienced scientists, clinical operations personnel, and other technical personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research   24 table of contents institutions. competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the san diego, california area. if we are unable to attract and retain the necessary personnel, this will significantly impede the achievement of our research and development objectives and our ability to meet the demands of our collaborators in a timely fashion. all of our employees are “at will” employees, which means that any employee may quit at any time and we may terminate any employee at any time. we do not carry “key person” insurance covering members of senior management. we do not know whether our drug discovery platform will lead to the discovery or development of commercially viable product candidates. our drug discovery platform uses new and unproven methods to identify and develop product candidates. we have never successfully completed clinical development of any of our product candidates, and there are no drugs on the market that have been discovered using our drug discovery platform. our research and development focuses on small molecule drugs for the treatment of central nervous system disorders. due to our limited resources, we may have to forego potential opportunities with respect to discovering product candidates to treat diseases or conditions in other therapeutic areas. if we are not able to use our technologies to discover and develop product candidates that can be commercialized, we may not achieve profitability. in the future, we may find it necessary to license the technology of others or acquire additional product candidates to augment the results of our internal discovery activities. if we are unable to identify new product candidates using our drug discovery platform, we may be unable to establish or maintain a clinical development pipeline or generate product revenues. we may not be able to continue or fully exploit our collaborations with outside scientific and clinical advisors, which could impair the progress of our clinical trials and our research and development efforts. we work with scientific and clinical advisors at academic and other institutions who are experts in the field of central nervous system disorders. they assist us in our research and development efforts and advise us with respect to our clinical trials. these advisors are not our employees and may have other commitments that would limit their future availability to us. although our scientific and clinical advisors generally agree not to engage in competing work, if a conflict of interest arises between their work for us and their work for another entity, we may lose their services, which may impair our reputation in the industry and delay the development or commercialization of our product candidates. we will need to continue to manage our organization and we may encounter difficulties with our reduced staffing and any future transitions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we will need to effectively manage our operations and facilities in order to advance our drug development programs, including those covered by our collaborations with allergan and meiji seika, achieve milestones under our collaboration agreements, facilitate additional collaborations, and pursue other development activities. it is possible that our infrastructure may be inadequate to support our future efforts and growth. in particular, we may have to develop internal sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities if we decide to market any drug that we may successfully develop. we may not successfully manage our operations and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development, and commercialization goals. we expect that our results of operations will fluctuate, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance from period to period. our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period include:     •   the status of development of pimavanserin and our other product candidates, including compounds being developed under our collaborations;   25 table of contents   •   whether we generate revenues or reimbursements by achieving specified research, development or commercialization milestones under any agreements or otherwise receive potential payments under these agreements;     •   whether we are required to make payments due to achieving specified milestones under any licensing or similar agreements or otherwise make potential payments under these agreements;     •   the incurrence of preclinical or clinical expenses that could fluctuate significantly from period to period, including reimbursement obligations pursuant to our collaboration agreements;     •   the initiation, termination, or reduction in the scope of our collaborations or any disputes regarding these collaborations;     •   the timing of our satisfaction of applicable regulatory requirements;     •   the rate of expansion of our clinical development and other internal research and development efforts;     •   the effect of competing technologies and products and market developments;     •   the costs and benefits associated with our restructuring;     •   the costs associated with litigation; and     •   general and industry-specific economic conditions. we believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. relying on third-party manufacturers may result in delays in our clinical trials and product introductions. we have no manufacturing facilities and have no experience in the manufacturing of drugs or in designing drug-manufacturing processes. we have contracted with third-party manufacturers to produce, in collaboration with us, our product candidates for clinical trials. if any of our product candidates are approved by the fda or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we may need to contract with a third party to manufacture them in larger quantities. we currently use third-party manufacturers to produce clinical supplies of our compounds for us, including pimavanserin. while we believe that there are alternative sources available to manufacture our product candidates, in the event that we seek such alternative sources, we may not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without delays or additional expenditures. we cannot estimate these delays or costs with certainty but, if they were to occur, they could cause a delay in our development and commercialization efforts. the manufacturers of our product candidates are obliged to operate in accordance with fda-mandated current good manufacturing practices, or cgmps. a failure of any of our contract manufacturers to establish and follow cgmps and to document their adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in clinical trials or in obtaining regulatory approval of product candidates or the ultimate launch of products based on our product candidates into the market. failure by our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant pre-market approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecutions. our management has broad discretion over the use of our cash and we may not use our cash effectively, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our management has significant flexibility in applying our cash resources and could use these resources for corporate purposes that do not increase our market value, or in ways with which our stockholders may not agree. we may use our cash resources for corporate purposes that do not yield a significant return or any return at all for our stockholders, which may cause our stock price to decline.   26 table of contents we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs as a result of laws and regulations relating to corporate governance and other matters. laws and regulations affecting public companies, including provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act that was enacted in july 2010, the provisions of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, or sox, and rules adopted or proposed by the sec and by the nasdaq global market, have resulted in, and will continue to result in, significant costs to us as we evaluate the implications of these rules and respond to their requirements. we issued an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of sox with our annual report. in the future, if we are not able to issue an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as required or we or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, this shortcoming could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. new rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the coverage that is the same or similar to our current coverage. the impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors and board committees, and as our executive officers. we cannot predict or estimate the total amount of the costs we may incur or the timing of such costs to comply with these rules and regulations. healthcare legislation may make it more difficult to receive revenues, if we have products that are approved. in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act, or collectively, ppaca, became law in the united states. ppaca substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly affects the healthcare industry. among the provisions of ppaca of importance to our potential product candidates are the following:     •   a new medicare part d coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under medicare part d, beginning in 2011;     •   extension of manufacturers’ medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in medicaid managed care organizations;     •   expansion of eligibility criteria for medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer medicaid coverage to additional individuals beginning in april 2010 and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level beginning in 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ medicaid rebate liability;     •   expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the public health service pharmaceutical pricing program;     •   new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians, including reporting any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective march 30, 2013, and reporting any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year;     •   a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians, effective april 1, 2012;     •   a licensure framework for follow-on biologic products; and     •   a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research.   27 table of contents we expect that the ppaca, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product, and could seriously harm our business. any reduction in reimbursement from medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. if we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market any products we may develop, we may not be able to generate product revenue. we do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. in order to market any products that may be approved by the fda, we must build our sales, marketing, managerial, and related capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. if we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. if we engage in any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. we may attempt to acquire businesses, technologies, services, or products or license in technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. we have limited experience in identifying acquisition targets, successfully completing proposed acquisitions and integrating any acquired businesses, technologies, services or products into our current infrastructure. the process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service, or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention from our ongoing business operations. as a result, we will incur a variety of costs in connection with an acquisition and may never realize its anticipated benefits. earthquake or fire damage to our facilities could delay our research and development efforts and adversely affect our business. our headquarters and research and development facilities in san diego are located in a seismic zone, and there is the possibility of an earthquake, which could be disruptive to our operations and result in delays in our research and development efforts. in addition, while our facilities have not been adversely impacted by local wildfires, there is the possibility of future fires in the area. in the event of an earthquake or fire, if our facilities or the equipment in our facilities is significantly damaged or destroyed for any reason, we may not be able to rebuild or relocate our facilities or replace any damaged equipment in a timely manner and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we do not have insurance for damages resulting from earthquakes. while we do have fire insurance for our property and equipment located in san diego, any damage sustained in a fire could cause a delay in our research and development efforts and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. risks related to our intellectual property our ability to compete may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary rights. our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining proprietary rights to our product candidates and technologies and their uses, as well as successfully defending these rights against third-party challenges. we will only be able to protect our product candidates, proprietary technologies, and their uses from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents, or effectively protected trade secrets, cover them. although we have filed numerous patent applications worldwide with respect to pimavanserin, we have been issued only a limited number of patents with respect to these filings. our ability to obtain patent protection for our product candidates and technologies is uncertain due to a number of factors, including:     •   we may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our pending patent applications or issued patents;   28 table of contents   •   we may not have been the first to file patent applications for our product candidates or the technologies we rely upon;     •   others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;     •   our disclosures in patent applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability;     •   any or all of our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents;     •   we may not seek or obtain patent protection in all countries that will eventually provide a significant business opportunity;     •   any patents issued to us or our collaborators may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties;     •   our proprietary technologies may not be patentable;     •   others may design around our patent claims to produce competitive products which fall outside of the scope of our patents;     •   others may identify prior art which could invalidate our patents; or     •   changes to patent laws that limit the exclusivity rights of patent holders. even if we have or obtain patents covering our product candidates or technologies, we may still be barred from making, using and selling our product candidates or technologies because of the patent rights of others. others have or may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering compounds, assays, genes, gene products or therapeutic products that are similar or identical to ours. there are many issued u.s. and foreign patents relating to genes, nucleic acids, polypeptides, chemical compounds or therapeutic products, and some of these may encompass reagents utilized in the identification of candidate drug compounds or compounds that we desire to commercialize. numerous u.s. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others exist in the area of central nervous system disorders and the other fields in which we are developing products. these could materially affect our ability to develop our product candidates or sell our products. because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or technologies may infringe. these patent applications may have priority over patent applications filed by us. we regularly conduct searches to identify patents or patent applications that may prevent us from obtaining patent protection for our proprietary compounds or that could limit the rights we have claimed in our patents and patent applications. disputes may arise regarding the ownership or inventorship of our inventions. it is difficult to determine how such disputes would be resolved. others may challenge the validity of our patents. if our patents are found to be invalid, we will lose the ability to exclude others from making, using or selling the inventions claimed therein. some of our academic institutional licensors, research collaborators and scientific advisors have rights to publish data and information to which we have rights. if we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection with our collaborations, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information will be impaired. additionally, employees whose positions were eliminated in connection with restructurings may seek future employment with our competitors. although each of our employees is required to sign a confidentiality agreement with us at the time of hire, we cannot guarantee that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. in addition, technology that we may license in may become important to some aspects of our business. we generally will not control the patent prosecution, maintenance or enforcement of in-licensed technology.   29 table of contents confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property, which could limit our ability to compete. because we operate in the highly technical field of drug discovery and development of small molecule drugs, we rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary technology and processes. however, trade secrets are difficult to protect. we enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and other advisors. these agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. these agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. in addition, courts outside the united states may be less willing to protect trade secrets. the failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. in addition, we have not entered into any noncompete agreements with any of our employees. a dispute concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and costly, and an unfavorable outcome could harm our business. there is significant litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. while we are not currently subject to any pending intellectual property litigation, and are not aware of any such threatened litigation, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product candidates, technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. in particular, there are many patents relating to specific genes, nucleic acids, polypeptides or the uses thereof to identify product candidates. some of these may encompass genes or polypeptides that we utilize in our drug development activities. if our drug development activities are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages or seek licenses to such patents. a patentee could prevent us from using the patented genes or polypeptides for the identification or development of drug compounds. there are also many patents relating to chemical compounds and the uses thereof. if our compounds are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages or seek licenses to such patents. a patentee could prevent us from making, using or selling the patented compounds. we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us, protect our trade secrets or determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. from time to time, we may hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities conducted by us. either we or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. if we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources, regardless of whether we win or lose. we may not be able to afford the costs of litigation. any legal action against us or our collaborators could lead to:     •   payment of damages, potentially treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party’s patent rights;     •   injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize, and sell products; or     •   we or our collaborators having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. as a result, we could be prevented from commercializing current or future products.   30 table of contents the patent applications of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies involve highly complex legal and factual questions, which, if determined adversely to us, could negatively impact our patent position. the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. for example, some of our patent applications will cover gene sequences and products and the uses of those gene sequences and products. public disclosures and patent applications related to the human genome project and other genomics efforts may limit the scope of our claims or make unpatentable subsequent patent applications. no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date. the united states patent and trademark office’s standards are uncertain and could change in the future. consequently, the issuance and scope of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. u.s. patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings, and u.s. patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings in the united states patent and trademark office (and foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent office), which proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. in addition, such interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings may be costly. accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection against competitive products or processes. in addition, changes in or different interpretations of patent laws in the united states and foreign countries may permit others to use our discoveries or to develop and commercialize our technology and products without providing any compensation to us or may limit the number of patents or claims we can obtain. in particular, there have been proposals to shorten the exclusivity periods available under u.s. patent law that, if adopted, could substantially harm our business. the product candidates that we are developing are protected by intellectual property rights, including patents and patent applications. if any of our product candidates becomes a marketable product, we will rely on our exclusivity under patents to sell the compound and recoup our investments in the research and development of the compound. if the exclusivity period for patents is shortened, then our ability to generate revenues without competition will be reduced and our business could be materially adversely impacted. the laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as u.s. laws and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. for example, some countries, including many in europe, do not grant patent claims directed to methods of treating humans and, in these countries, patent protection may not be available at all to protect our product candidates. in addition, u.s. patent laws may change which could prevent or limit us from filing patent applications or patent claims to protect our products and/or technologies or limit the exclusivity periods that are available to patent holders. if we fail to obtain and maintain patent protection and trade secret protection of our product candidates, proprietary technologies and their uses, we could lose our competitive advantage and competition we face would increase, reducing our potential revenues and adversely affecting our ability to attain or maintain profitability. risks related to our industry we will be subject to stringent regulation in connection with the marketing of any products derived from our product candidates, which could delay the development and commercialization of our products. the pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation by the fda and other regulatory agencies in the united states and by comparable authorities in other countries. neither we nor our collaborators can market a pharmaceutical product in the united states until it has completed rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory clearance process implemented by the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, depends upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product, and requires substantial resources. even if regulatory approval is obtained, it may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, advertising, promotion, and/or marketing of such products, and requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. these   31 table of contents limitations may limit the size of the market for the product or result in the incurrence of additional costs. any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from the particular product candidate. outside the united states, the ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities. the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization, pricing, and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. only after the appropriate regulatory authority is satisfied that adequate evidence of safety, quality, and efficacy has been presented will it grant a marketing authorization. approval by the fda does not automatically lead to the approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states and, similarly, approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states will not automatically lead to fda approval. in addition, u.s. and foreign government regulations control access to and use of some human or other tissue samples in our research and development efforts. u.s. and foreign government agencies may also impose restrictions on the use of data derived from human or other tissue samples. accordingly, if we fail to comply with these regulations and restrictions, the commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed or suspended, which may delay or impede our ability to generate product revenues. if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our product candidates, they may reduce or eliminate our commercial opportunity. competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense and expected to increase. we face competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as numerous academic and research institutions and governmental agencies, both in the united states and abroad. some of these competitors have products or are pursuing the development of drugs that target the same diseases and conditions that are the focus of our drug development programs. for example, our potential product for parkinson’s disease psychosis would compete with off-label use of antipsychotic drugs, including seroquel, marketed by astra-zeneca, and with the generic drug clozapine. our potential products for the treatment of schizophrenia would compete with zyprexa, marketed by eli lilly, fanapt marketed by novartis pharmaceuticals, risperdal, marketed by johnson & johnson, abilify, marketed jointly by bristol-myers squibb and otsuka pharmaceutical, seroquel, and clozapine. our potential product for alzheimer’s disease psychosis would compete with off-label use of antipsychotic drugs. in the area of chronic pain, potential products would compete with neurontin and lyrica, marketed by pfizer, and cymbalta, marketed by eli lilly, as well as a variety of generic or proprietary opioids. our potential products for the treatment of glaucoma would compete with xalatan, marketed by pfizer, and lumigan and alphagan, marketed by allergan. many of our competitors and their collaborators have significantly greater experience than we do in the following:     •   identifying and validating targets;     •   screening compounds against targets;     •   preclinical studies and clinical trials of potential pharmaceutical products; and     •   obtaining fda and other regulatory approvals. in addition, many of our competitors and their collaborators have substantially greater capital and research and development resources, manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities, and production facilities. smaller companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through proprietary research discoveries and collaboration arrangements with large pharmaceutical and established biotechnology companies. many of our competitors have products that have been approved or are in advanced development and may develop superior   32 table of contents technologies or methods to identify and validate drug targets and to discover novel small molecule drugs. our competitors, either alone or with their collaborators, may succeed in developing drugs that are more effective, safer, more affordable, or more easily administered than ours and may achieve patent protection or commercialize drugs sooner than us. our competitors may also develop alternative therapies that could further limit the market for any drugs that we may develop. our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse affect on our business. any claims relating to improper handling, storage, or disposal of biological, hazardous, and radioactive materials used in our business could be costly and delay our research and development efforts. our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful hazardous materials, including volatile solvents, biological materials such as blood from patients that has the potential to transmit disease, chemicals that cause cancer, and various radioactive compounds. our operations also produce hazardous waste products. we face the risk of contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. the cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development, or production efforts. if one of our employees were accidentally injured from the use, storage, handling, or disposal of these materials, the medical costs related to his or her treatment would be covered by our workers’ compensation insurance policy. however, we do not carry specific biological or hazardous waste insurance coverage and our general liability insurance policy specifically excludes coverage for damages and fines arising from biological or hazardous waste exposure or contamination. accordingly, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be subject to criminal sanctions or fines or be held liable for damages, our operating licenses could be revoked, or we could be required to suspend or modify our operations and our research and development efforts. consumers may sue us for product liability, which could result in substantial liabilities that exceed our available resources and damage our reputation. researching, developing, and commercializing drug products entails significant product liability risks. liability claims may arise from our and our collaborators’ use of products in clinical trials and the commercial sale of those products. consumers may make these claims directly and our collaborators or others selling these products may seek contribution from us if they receive claims from consumers. although we currently have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials, we will need to increase and expand this coverage as we commence larger scale trials and if our product candidates are approved for commercial sale. this insurance may be prohibitively expensive or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products that we or our collaborators develop. product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our liability could exceed our total assets if we do not prevail in a lawsuit from any injury caused by our drug products. risks related to our common stock our stock price may be particularly volatile because we are a drug discovery and development company. the market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general, and drug discovery and development companies in particular, have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. the following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock:     •   the development status of our product candidates, including results of our clinical trials for our pimavanserin program or our chronic pain or glaucoma collaborations;     •   the initiation, termination, or reduction in the scope of our collaborations or any disputes or developments regarding our collaborations;   33 table of contents   •   market conditions or trends related to biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, or the market in general;     •   announcements of technological innovations, new commercial products, or other material events by our competitors or us;     •   disputes or other developments concerning our proprietary rights;     •   changes in, or failure to meet, securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations of our financial performance;     •   our failure to meet applicable nasdaq listing standards and the possible delisting of our common stock from the nasdaq global market;     •   additions or departures of key personnel;     •   discussions of our business, products, financial performance, prospects, or stock price by the financial and scientific press and online investor communities such as blogs and chat rooms;     •   public concern as to, and legislative action with respect to, genetic testing or other research areas of biopharmaceutical companies, the pricing and availability of prescription drugs, or the safety of drugs and drug delivery techniques;     •   regulatory developments in the united states and in foreign countries;     •   the announcement of, or developments in, any litigation matters; or     •   economic and political factors, including but not limited to economic and financial crises, wars, terrorism, and political unrest. in particular, our development program with pimavanserin encompass a number of studies, including phase iii trials, open-label safety extension trials and a range of supporting studies, including carcinogenicity studies, and drug-drug interaction studies. another unfavorable outcome in one or more of the studies in the development of pimavanserin could be a major set-back for our company, generally. such an unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on our company and the value of our common stock. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. we may become subject to this type of litigation, which is often extremely expensive and diverts management’s attention. if we or our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may decline. a significant number of shares of our common stock are held by a small number of stockholders. sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. in connection with the ceff, we filed a registration statement with the sec to register the resale of up to a total of approximately 7.4 million shares of our common stock that may be issued pursuant to the ceff or upon exercise of the warrant we issued in connection with establishing the ceff. we also filed a registration statement in connection with a private financing that we concluded in january 2011, which registration covers approximately 17.0 million shares of our common stock. we also have an effective registration statement to sell shares of our common stock on our own behalf, and may elect to sell shares pursuant to such registration from time to time. our stock price may decline as a result of the sale of the shares of our common stock included in any of these registration statements. if the price of our common stock trades below $1.00 per share for a sustained period or we do not meet other continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted from the nasdaq global market. the nasdaq global market imposes, among other requirements, listing maintenance standards as well as minimum bid and public float requirements. in particular, nasdaq rules require us to maintain a minimum bid   34 table of contents price of $1.00 per share of our common stock and to have a specified level of stockholder equity. if the closing bid price of our common stock is below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days, which was the case in 2010, or we do not meet other requirements, which was the case in 2010 when we failed to meet the minimum market value listing requirement, we would fail to be in compliance with nasdaq’s continued listing standards and, if we are unable to cure the non-compliance within 180 days, our common stock may be delisted from the nasdaq global market and we may not be able to maintain the continued listing of our common stock on the nasdaq global market. delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease. such delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations. if our officers, directors, and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to significantly influence our management and operations, acting in their best interests and not necessarily those of our other stockholders. our directors, executive officers and holders of five percent or more of our outstanding common stock and their affiliates beneficially own a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock. as a result, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of all of our board members, amendments to our certificate of incorporation, going-private transactions, and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. the interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with the company’s interests or the interests of other stockholders and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of our other stockholders. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law may make an acquisition of us more complicated and may make the removal and replacement of our directors and management more difficult. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. these provisions may also make it difficult for stockholders to remove and replace our board of directors and management. these provisions:     •   establish that members of the board of directors may be removed only for cause upon the affirmative vote of stockholders owning at least a majority of our capital stock;     •   authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and prevent or delay a takeover attempt;     •   limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders;     •   establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings;     •   prohibit our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with 66 2/3 percent stockholder approval; and     •   provide for a board of directors with staggered terms. we are also subject to provisions of the delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15 percent or more of our common stock for 3 years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders.   35 table of contents adverse securities and credit market conditions have reduced our market capitalization and may significantly affect our ability to raise capital. turmoil in the financial markets has adversely affected the market capitalizations of many biotechnology companies, including us, and generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain. this, coupled with other factors, may limit access to financing over the near-term future. this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access funding pursuant to our ceff or from other sources on acceptable terms, or at all, and our stock price may suffer further as a result. item 1b. unresolved