item 1a. risk factors. investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. you should consider carefully the risks described below, together with other information in this annual report on form 10-k and other public filings, before making investment decisions regarding our stock. if any of the following events actually occur, our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. this could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. moreover, the risks described below are not the only ones that we face. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition. in june 2012, the us food and drug administration, or fda, approved our internally discovered drug, belviq® (lorcaserin hci), for chronic weight management in adults who are obese or are overweight with at least one weight related comorbid condition. belviq (pronounced “bel-veek”) is the trade name for   28 table of contents lorcaserin hydrochloride in the united states. while belviq may in the future be marketed outside of the united states as belviq or under a different trade name, we use belviq in this report to refer to the finished drug product for lorcaserin hydrochloride or, depending on the context, lorcaserin hydrochloride or other solid state forms of lorcaserin. risks relating to our business our prospects are highly dependent on the success of belviq, our first and only fda-approved drug. to the extent belviq is not commercially successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock may decline. we are focusing a significant portion of our activities and resources on belviq, and we believe our prospects are highly dependent on, and a significant portion of the value of our company relates to, the successful commercialization of belviq in the united states and potentially in additional territories. the marketing approval and successful commercialization of belviq is subject to many risks, including the risks discussed in other risk factors, and belviq may not receive marketing approval from any other regulatory agency. if the results or timing of regulatory filings, the regulatory process, regulatory developments, commercialization, clinical trials or preclinical studies, or other activities, actions or decisions related to belviq do not meet our, your, analysts’ or others’ expectations, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. the fda approval of belviq includes the following limitations of use: (i) the safety and efficacy of coadministration of belviq with other products intended for weight loss including prescription drugs (e.g., phentermine), over-the-counter drugs, and herbal preparations have not been established, and (ii) the effect of belviq on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been established. in connection with approving belviq, the fda recommended to the us drug enforcement administration, or dea, that belviq be classified as a schedule iv drug under the controlled substances act, or csa. the dea has proposed that belviq be classified as a schedule iv drug, and belviq will not be commercially available in the united states until the dea provides the final scheduling designation. belviq will be marketed in the united states by eisai inc., or eisai, under the amended and restated marketing and supply agreement, or eisai agreement, between eisai and our wholly owned subsidiary, arena pharmaceuticals gmbh, or arena gmbh. under such agreement, we also granted eisai exclusive rights to market and distribute belviq in most of the other territories in north and south america. arena gmbh has also entered into a marketing and supply agreement, or ildong agreement, for belviq with ildong pharmaceutical co., ltd., or ildong. under the ildong agreement, we granted ildong exclusive rights to market and distribute belviq in south korea for weight loss or weight management in obese and overweight patients, subject to regulatory approval of belviq by the korea food and drug administration. we expect that revenues under the eisai agreement and, to a lesser extent, the ildong agreement will constitute the majority of our revenues over the next several years, and future payments to us under the agreements will substantially depend on the achievement of milestones and belviq product sales. each of these agreements may be terminated early in certain circumstances, in which case we may not receive additional milestone or other payments under the agreement. we cannot guarantee if or when any milestones or belviq product sales under these agreements will be achieved or paid in the future. we have not received regulatory approval for belviq in any territories outside of the united states, nor do we have any marketing and supply agreements or similar arrangements in place other than the eisai agreement and the ildong agreement. we are independently seeking regulatory approval for belviq in the european union and switzerland, and plan to seek, independently or under collaboration, regulatory approval for belviq in other territories. there is no assurance that any pending or future regulatory applications will be approved. we also plan to enter into marketing and supply agreements or similar arrangements with one or more pharmaceutical companies to commercialize belviq in additional territories, but there is no assurance that we will be able to do so at all or on terms that you or others view as favorable.   29 table of contents in the united states, the degree of market acceptance and commercial success of belviq, and our revenues, will depend on a number of factors, including the following, as well as risks identified in other risk factors:     •   the dea’s scheduling designation for belviq, which designation may take longer and be more restrictive than we or others expect or change after finalization;     •   the successful launch of belviq and growth of commercial sales;     •   the number of patients with the potential to use belviq, the number of patients receiving belviq treatment and the results achieved by such patients;     •   the pace of market acceptance, which may depend on the timing and impact of competition and belviq’s perceived advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments (including relative convenience, ease of administration, and prevalence and severity of any adverse events, including any unexpected adverse events);     •   the actual and perceived safety and efficacy of belviq on both a short- and long-term basis among actual or potential patients, healthcare providers and others in the medical community, regulatory agencies and insurers and other payers;     •   incidence and severity of any side effects, including as a result of off-label use or in combination with one or more drugs;     •   new data relating to belviq, including as a result of additional studies, trials or analyses;     •   physicians may not prescribe, and patients may not take, belviq until at least results from our required post-marketing studies are available or other long-term efficacy and safety data exists;     •   the claims, limitations, warnings and other information in belviq’s current or future labeling;     •   eisai’s maintenance of an effective sales force and medical affairs and related functions, and its sales, marketing and other representatives accurately describing belviq consistent with its approved labeling;     •   belviq’s commercial price and perceived cost-effectiveness;     •   the ability of patients and physicians and other providers to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage or reimbursement, if any, by third-party payers, including government payers;     •   the ability of group purchasing organizations, or gpos, including distributors and other network providers, to sell belviq to their constituencies; and     •   the establishment and maintenance of adequate commercial manufacturing capabilities ourselves or through third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet commercial demand for belviq and supply chain issues. if belviq is approved in territories outside the united states, the degree of market acceptance and commercial success of belviq in these territories, and our revenues, will depend on similar factors as in the united states, as well as territory-specific risks. we cannot predict the extent to which belviq will be utilized by patients in the united states or, subject to applicable regulatory approval, patients in other territories, or whether physicians, healthcare insurers or maintenance organizations, or the medical community in general, will accept or utilize belviq. the potential population of patients eligible for treatment with belviq may be reduced based on the limitations for use included in the approved label, which may be more restrictive in different territories. our and others’ efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payers regarding the benefits of belviq will require significant resources and may not be successful in achieving the objectives. if belviq does not achieve sufficient market acceptance in the united states, and ultimately in other territories, the revenues we generate from sales will be limited and our business may not be profitable.   30 table of contents data generated or analyzed with respect to reported adverse safety events following marketing or with respect to post-marketing and other studies may result in decreased demand, lower sales, product recall or regulatory action. a new drug application, or nda, holder is responsible for assessing and monitoring the safety of a drug that has been approved for marketing. with respect to belviq, eisai, we and others will assess and monitor the safety of belviq in the marketplace, and we will receive reports of adverse safety events. in addition, as a condition to obtaining fda approval of belviq, we and eisai committed to conduct post-marketing studies, including evaluation of the effect of long-term treatment with belviq on the incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events in overweight and obese subjects with cardiovascular disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors. the cardiovascular outcomes trial will include echocardiographic assessments. we or others may also decide or need to conduct additional studies, clinical trials or analyses of belviq, including in connection with seeking regulatory approval of belviq outside of the united states, in combination with other drugs or for other indications. new data relating to belviq, including from adverse event reports, post-marketing studies and trials in the united states, and registration and other studies and trials in territories outside the united states, may result in label changes and may adversely affect sales or result in withdrawal of belviq from the market. foreign regulatory agencies may also consider the new data in reviewing belviq marketing applications in their territories or impose post-approval requirements that require significant additional expenditures. furthermore, the discovery of significant problems with a product or class of products similar to belviq could have an adverse effect on the belviq program, including commercialization. in addition, new data or other information, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations involved in various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of belviq or place greater restrictions on sales. such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of belviq. our forecasting of belviq sales will be difficult due to uncertainty about the timing of launch, the rate of adoption and other aspects of commercialization. if our belviq revenue projections are inaccurate, our business may be harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. our business planning requires us to forecast demand and revenues despite numerous uncertainties, which may be increased because we rely to at least some extent on our collaborators providing us accurate and timely information. actual results may deviate materially from projected results for various reasons, including the following, as well as risks discussed in other risk factors:     •   uncertainty relating to the timing and results of the dea scheduling process and potential for changes in the final scheduling designation;     •   uncertainty relating to the timing of launch and rate of adoption in the various territories;     •   uncertainty related to pricing, reimbursement, product returns or recalls, competition and others aspects of commercialization;     •   eisai and ildong control the commercialization of belviq in most of north and south america and in south korea, respectively, including related strategy and their allocation of resources, and we expect that any future collaborators for belviq will similarly control the commercialization in the applicable territory;     •   lack of patient and physician familiarity with belviq;     •   lack of patient use and physician prescribing history;     •   lack of commercialization experience for belviq, in particular, and weight loss drugs, in general; and     •   actual sales to patients may significantly differ from expectations based on sales by eisai to wholesalers.   31 table of contents the extent to which any of these or other factors individually or in the aggregate may impact sales of belviq is uncertain and difficult to predict. this may lead to lower than expected revenue, inefficiency in expenditures and increased difficulty in operational planning. revenue shortfalls would have a negative impact on our cash flow and on our business in general. our revenues from belviq will be based in part on management’s estimates, judgment and accounting policies, and incorrect estimates or the sec’s or others’ disagreement regarding our estimates or accounting policies may result in changes to our guidance or previously reported results. for example, with respect to the commercialization of belviq in the united states, we expect to recognize revenues upon eisai’s sales to wholesalers and prior to actual sales to patients. in addition, our expected and actual quarterly results may greatly fluctuate, including in the near-term, and such fluctuations can adversely affect the market price of our common stock, perceptions of our ability to forecast demand and revenues, and our ability to maintain and fund our operations. we will need to further collaborate or obtain additional funds to conduct our planned research, development and commercialization efforts; we may not be able to further collaborate or obtain adequate funds, your ownership may be substantially diluted if we do obtain additional funds, and you may not agree with the manner in which we allocate our available resources; and we may never become profitable. we have accumulated a large deficit since inception that has primarily resulted from the significant research and development expenditures we have made in seeking to identify and validate new drug targets and develop compounds that could become marketed drugs. we expect that our losses and operating expenses may continue to be substantial for at least the short term. belviq will not be commercially available in the united states until after the dea provides the final scheduling designation, which designation may take significantly longer or be more restrictive than we or others expect. all of our other programs are in the research or early development stage, and we may not have adequate funds to develop our compounds into marketed drugs. we also intend to explore belviq’s therapeutic potential in combination with other drugs and for other indications. it takes many years and potentially hundreds of millions of dollars to successfully develop a preclinical compound or drug candidate into a marketed drug, and our efforts may not result in marketed drugs. we cannot assure you that any additional payments we may receive under our marketing and supply agreement with eisai or ildong will be sufficient to fund our planned research and development and other activities or to result in profitability. we will need to enter into marketing and supply agreements or other arrangements with one or more pharmaceutical companies, or obtain additional funds, to commercialize belviq in additional territories. we may not be able to enter into any such agreement or obtain additional funds, on terms that we or third parties, including investors or analysts, view as favorable, if at all. our ability to enter into new collaborations for belviq or any of our drug candidates, and our ability to raise funds in the capital markets on terms that you or others view as favorable, may depend on the outcomes of regulatory applications for marketing approval or additional preclinical and clinical testing. we do not control these outcomes. we may allocate our resources in ways that do not improve our results of operations or enhance the value of our assets. our stockholders and others may also not agree with the manner in which we choose to allocate our resources. any failure to apply our resources effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business or the development of our drug candidates and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. in addition, if we experience a significant setback or delay, particularly with regard to belviq, or adequate funding is not available, we may eliminate or postpone or scale back some or all of our research or development programs or delay the advancement of one or more of such programs, including in ways with which our stockholders or others may not agree. any such reductions may adversely impact our development and commercialization timeline for belviq or narrow or slow the development of our pipeline, which we believe would reduce our opportunities for success and result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.   32 table of contents we have been opportunistic in our efforts to obtain cash, and we expect to continue to evaluate various funding alternatives from time to time. if we obtain additional funding, it may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to obtain marketing approvals for belviq outside the united states, or if we are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our results of operations and business may be materially adversely affected and our stock price may decline. in march 2012, we filed a marketing authorization application, or maa, for belviq in the european union, and the european medicines agency, or ema, accepted the filing for review. in july 2012, we filed an maa for belviq with the swiss health authority, swissmedic, and swissmedic has accepted the filing for review. we expect eisai and ildong to seek regulatory approval for the marketing of belviq in territories under our agreements, and we plan to seek regulatory approval of belviq in additional territories independently or with one or more pharmaceutical companies. despite the fda’s approval of belviq, we cannot assure you or predict with any certainty that any other regulatory authority will grant marketing approval for belviq, or the expected timeframe of any such approval. for example, vivus, inc., announced in october 2012 that, despite the fda’s approval of its drug candidate for the treatment of obesity, the ema’s committee for medicinal products for human use, or chmp, recommended against approval of its maa for such drug candidate. the review and potential approval of belviq carries many risks and uncertainties, and our or others’ belviq regulatory submissions outside of the united states may not be satisfactory to the applicable regulatory authorities, including with regard to demonstrating adequate safety and efficacy for regulatory approval. we have made, and expect to make in the future, assumptions, estimations, calculations and decisions as part of our analyses of data and regulatory submissions, and the applicable regulatory authorities may not accept or agree with our assumptions, estimations, calculations, decisions or analyses or may interpret or weigh the importance of data differently. furthermore, as was the case with fda approval, other regulatory approvals, even if obtained, may be limited to specific indications, limit the type of patients in which the drug may be used, or otherwise require specific warning or labeling language, any of which might reduce the commercial potential of belviq. as with the fda’s approval of belviq, regulatory authorities in other territories may condition belviq marketing approval on the conduct of specific post-marketing studies to further evaluate safety and efficacy, in either particular or general patient populations or both. the results of these studies, discovery of previously unknown issues involving safety or efficacy or failure to comply with post-approval regulatory requirements, including requirements with respect to manufacturing practices, reporting of adverse effects, advertising, promotion and marketing, may result in restrictions on the marketing of belviq or the withdrawal of belviq from the market. with respect to the european union, the chmp provided feedback to our maa in the form of a day 120 list of questions, which identified three issues as major objections: the tumor findings in rats, the dropout rate in clinical trials and how this affects the analysis of efficacy, and the incidences of valvulopathy. in october 2012, we submitted our response to the day 120 list of questions. in january 2013, the chmp provided further feedback in the form of a day 180 list of outstanding issues. the major objections in the day 180 list of outstanding issues relate to non-clinical and clinical issues, including tumors in rats, valvulopathy and psychiatric events, and the chmp requested that we further justify belviq’s overall benefit-risk balance taking these issues into consideration. the issues will need to be addressed before the chmp can recommend belviq for marketing approval in the european union. we have responded to the day 180 list of outstanding issues in writing. as part of this process, the chmp will consult with groups of independent experts who will provide recommendations on the outstanding issues. in addition, we have been invited by the chmp to provide an oral explanation, and we expect to have other discussions with the chmp and their experts.   33 table of contents with respect to switzerland, swissmedic provided feedback to our maa in the form of a list of questions with major objections, which include objections that are similar to those identified with respect to our maa for the european union. we are in the process of preparing our response. we cannot assure you that our past or any further responses will be sufficient to the chmp, the ema, swissmedic or others, that the chmp, the ema, swissmedic or others will consider our belviq program or data, including with regard to belviq’s efficacy or safety, as sufficient, that the chmp will recommend to the ema that belviq be approved when we expect or at all, or that the ema, swissmedic or any other regulatory authority will ever approve belviq. our development and commercialization of belviq may be adversely impacted by cardiovascular side effects associated with drugs used for the treatment of obesity. we developed belviq to more selectively stimulate the serotonin 2c receptor than did fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine because we believe this may avoid the cardiovascular side effects associated with fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine (often used in combination with phentermine, the combination of which was commonly referred to as “fen-phen”). these two drugs were serotonin-releasing agents and non-selective serotonin receptor agonists, and were withdrawn from the market in 1997 after reported incidences of heart valve disease and pulmonary hypertension associated with their usage. in in vitro studies examining affinity, activity and serotonin receptor subtype specificity, belviq demonstrated affinity for, and activity at, serotonin 2a, 2b and 2c receptors, but demonstrated greater affinity, activity and selectivity for the serotonin 2c receptor than for the serotonin 2a and 2b receptors. activation of the latter two receptors has been associated with undesirable effects. activation of the 2a receptor has been associated with central nervous system, or cns, effects, including altered perception, mood and abuse potential, and activation of the 2b receptor has been associated with cardiac valvulopathy. we may not be correct in our belief that more selectively stimulating the serotonin 2c receptor will avoid these undesired side effects, or belviq’s selectivity profile may not be adequate to avoid these side effects. belviq’s selectivity profile and the potential relationship between the activity of belviq and the activity of fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine may result in increased fda, ema or other regulatory scrutiny of the safety of belviq, may raise potential adverse publicity and may affect enrollment of any future clinical trials or product sales. in addition, we cannot guarantee that any other regulatory authority will find our safety data to be sufficient to approve belviq for marketing outside of the united states. as a condition to obtaining fda approval of belviq, we and eisai committed to conduct post-marketing studies to, among other things, evaluate the effect of long-term treatment with belviq on the incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events in overweight and obese subjects with cardiovascular disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors. the cardiovascular outcomes trial will include echocardiographic assessments, and the results of such trial and assessments may be unfavorable. unfavorable results from these studies or other studies we or others conduct could negatively impact the commercialization of belviq, limit the revenues we generate from sales, result in belviq’s withdrawal from the market, and preclude us from achieving or sustaining profitability. we are dependent on marketing and supply agreements for belviq and the failure to maintain such agreements, or poor performance under such agreements, could negatively impact our business. eisai has primary responsibility for the marketing and distribution of belviq in the united states, as well as other territories in north and south america, and ildong has primary responsibility for the regulatory approval and, ultimately, marketing and distribution of belviq in south korea. we have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that eisai and ildong will dedicate to such activities. in addition, eisai and ildong are responsible for compliance with certain regulatory requirements.   34 table of contents we are subject to a number of other risks associated with our dependence on the eisai agreement and the ildong agreement, including:     •   eisai or ildong may not comply with applicable regulatory guidelines with respect to belviq, which could adversely impact the development or commercialization of belviq;     •   there could be disagreements regarding the agreements or the study or development of belviq that delay or terminate the research, study, development or commercialization of belviq, delay or eliminate potential payments under the agreements or increase our costs under or outside of the agreements; or     •   eisai or ildong may not perform as expected, including with regard to making any required payments, and the agreements may not provide adequate protection or may not be effectively enforced. we and eisai or ildong, as applicable, each have the right to terminate our agreement in certain circumstances. we and eisai or ildong, as applicable, could also agree to amend the terms of our agreement, and we or others, including investors and analysts, may not view any amendments as favorable. if either agreement is terminated early, we may not be able to find another company to further develop and commercialize belviq in the covered territory on acceptable terms, if at all, and even if we elected to pursue further development or commercialization of belviq on our own, we might not have the funds or otherwise be able to do so successfully. we may enter into additional agreements for the commercialization of belviq or one or more of our drug candidates, and may be similarly dependent on the performance of third parties with similar and potentially company-specific risks. we are responsible for supplying eisai and ildong with belviq, including for commercial sale. we rely to an extent on other companies, including third-party manufacturers and sole-source suppliers, and we or such other companies may encounter failures or difficulties or not receive or provide adequate supply, which could adversely affect the commercial production of belviq or the clinical development or regulatory approval of our drug candidates. under the eisai agreement and the ildong agreement, we are the exclusive supplier of belviq. we own and operate a manufacturing facility in switzerland that will produce finished drug product of belviq and potentially of one or more of our drug candidates. such facility is currently our only source for finished drug product of belviq. in addition, we do not own or operate manufacturing facilities that can produce active pharmaceutical ingredient, or api, intermediates and other material required to make belviq and our drug candidates, or finished drug product for all of our drug candidates. accordingly, we must either develop or acquire such facilities or rely on third-party manufacturers for such production, which, in either case, would likely require substantial time and funds. with respect to belviq, we estimate that it would take two years or longer and a substantial amount of financial and other resources to secure another source for finished drug product. we currently contract with other companies to supply api, intermediates and other materials. certain of these materials are available from only one or a small number of suppliers, and using a new supplier, if available, for finished drug product, api and certain of the other materials could result in substantial delay and greater cost. we expect siegfried ag (formerly siegfried ltd, and referred to collectively in this document as siegfried) will be the only source of belviq api for at least the short term. our dependence on one source of finished drug product and api, as well as our dependence on other third parties in the supply chain, may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver drug products on a timely and competitive basis, or at all. any performance failure on the part of us or a third-party manufacturer could delay or otherwise adversely affect the sales of belviq or the clinical development or regulatory approval of belviq or one or more of our drug candidates. we or third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties involving production yields,   35 table of contents regulatory compliance, lot release, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. approval of belviq, as well as one or more of our drug candidates, could be delayed, limited or denied if the applicable regulatory authority does not approve our processes or facilities or those of a third-party manufacturer. moreover, the ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply drug product is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of the manufacturing facilities, which is impacted by many manufacturing variables including:     •   availability or contamination of raw materials and components used in the manufacturing process, particularly those for which we have no other source or supplier;     •   capacity of our facilities or those of our contract manufacturers;     •   facility contamination by microorganisms or viruses or cross contamination;     •   compliance with regulatory requirements, including inspectional notices of violation and warning letters;     •   changes in actual or forecasted demand;     •   timing and number of production runs;     •   production success rates and bulk drug yields; and     •   timing and outcome of product quality testing. in addition, we or our third-party manufacturers may encounter delays and problems in manufacturing our drug candidates or drugs for a variety of reasons, including accidents during operation, failure of equipment, delays in receiving materials, natural or other disasters, political or governmental unrest or changes, social unrest, intentional misconduct or other factors inherent in operating complex manufacturing facilities. supply chain management is complex, and involves sourcing from a number of different companies and foreign countries. commercially available starting materials, reagents and excipients may be or become scarce or more expensive to procure, and we may not be able to obtain favorable terms in agreements with subcontractors. we or our third-party manufacturers may not be able to operate our respective manufacturing facilities in a cost-effective manner or in a time frame that is consistent with our expected future manufacturing needs. if we or our third-party manufacturers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party manufacturers and other service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us for any reason, such interruption could delay progress on our programs, or interrupt the commercial supply, with the potential for additional costs and lost revenues. if this were to occur, we may also need to seek alternative means to fulfill our manufacturing needs. we may not be able to enter into agreements for the manufacture of belviq or one or more of our drug candidates with manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply with applicable law. manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the fda, the dea, corresponding state and foreign authorities and other regulatory authorities to ensure strict compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cgmps, regulations and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. we do not have control over a third-party manufacturer’s compliance with these regulations and standards. in addition, we have contracted with siegfried to provide to us certain technical and business services, including safety, health and environmental services. we are, therefore, relying at least in part on siegfried’s judgment, experience and expertise. we intend to reduce or eliminate our dependence on siegfried for such technical and business services, and any changes may result in increased cost, additional risk or otherwise negatively impact our operations. if we or one of our manufacturers fail to maintain compliance or otherwise experience setbacks, we or they could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, the production of belviq or one or more of our drug candidates could be interrupted or suspended, or our product could be recalled or withdrawn, resulting in delays, additional costs and potentially lost revenues.   36 table of contents negative us and global economic conditions may pose challenges to our business strategy, which relies on funding from collaborators or the financial markets, and creates other financial risks for us. negative conditions in the us or global economy, including financial markets, may adversely affect our business and the business of our current and prospective distributors, licensees and collaborators, which we sometimes refer to generally as our collaborators, and others with which we do or may conduct business. the duration and severity of these conditions is uncertain. if negative economic conditions persist or worsen, we may be unable to secure funding to sustain our operations or to find suitable collaborators to advance our internal programs, even if we achieve positive results from our research and development or business development efforts. such negative conditions could also impact commercialization of belviq or any other drugs we develop as well as our financial condition. from time to time, we may maintain a portfolio of investments in marketable debt securities, which are recorded at fair value. although we have established investment guidelines relative to diversification and maturity with the objectives of maintaining safety of principal and liquidity, we rely on credit rating agencies to help evaluate the riskiness of investments, and such agencies may not accurately predict such risk. in addition, such agencies may reduce the credit quality of our individual holdings, which could adversely affect their value. lower credit quality and other market events, such as changes in interest rates and further deterioration in the credit markets, may have an adverse effect on the fair value of our investment holdings and cash position. we and certain of our current and former employees and directors have been named as defendants in litigation that could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention. beginning in september 2010, a number of lawsuits were filed against us and certain of our employees and directors on behalf of certain purchasers of our common stock. the lawsuits in general include allegations that we and certain of our employees and directors violated laws by making materially false and misleading statements regarding our belviq trials, thereby artificially inflating the price of our common stock. the plaintiffs are seeking unspecified monetary damages and other relief. there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending these lawsuits. also, our insurance coverage may be insufficient, our assets may be insufficient to cover any amounts that exceed our insurance coverage, and we may have to pay damage awards or otherwise may enter into settlement arrangements in connection with such claims. a settlement of any of these lawsuits could involve the issuance of common stock or other equity, which may dilute your ownership interest. any payments or settlement arrangements could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results, financial condition or your ownership interest. even if the plaintiffs’ claims are not successful, this litigation could result in substantial costs and significantly and adversely impact our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. in addition, such lawsuits may make it more difficult to finance our operations, obtain certain types of insurance (including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance), and attract and retain qualified executive officers, other employees and directors. our stock price could decline significantly based on the results and timing of clinical trials and preclinical studies of, and decisions affecting, belviq or one or more of our drug candidates. the results and timing of clinical trials and preclinical studies can affect our stock price. preclinical studies include experiments performed in test tubes, in animals, or in cells or tissues from humans or animals. these studies, which are sometimes referred to as nonclinical studies, include all drug studies except those conducted in human subjects, and may occur before or after initiation of clinical trials for a particular compound. results of clinical trials and preclinical studies of belviq or one or more of our drug candidates may not be viewed favorably by us or third parties, including investors, analysts, current or potential collaborators, the academic and medical communities, and regulators. the same may be true of how we design individual studies, trials and development programs of belviq as well as for any of our drug candidates, and regulatory decisions (including   37 table of contents by us or regulatory authorities) affecting those programs. stock prices of companies in our industry have declined significantly when such results and decisions were unfavorable or perceived negatively or when a drug candidate did not otherwise meet expectations. from time to time we have drug programs in clinical trials. in addition to successfully completing clinical trials, to conduct long-term clinical trials and gain regulatory approval to commercialize drug candidates, regulatory authorities require that all drug candidates complete short- and long-term preclinical toxicity and carcinogenicity studies. these preclinical, animal studies are required to help us and regulatory authorities assess the potential risk that drug candidates may be toxic or cause cancer in humans. the results of clinical trials and preclinical studies are uncertain and subject to different interpretations, and the design of these trials and studies (which may change significantly and be more expensive than anticipated depending on results and regulatory decisions) may also be viewed negatively by us, regulatory authorities or other third parties and adversely impact the development and opportunities for regulatory approval and commercialization of our drug candidates and those under collaborative agreements. as a condition to obtaining fda approval of belviq, we and eisai committed to conduct post-marketing studies to assess the safety and efficacy of belviq for weight management in obese pediatric patients, as well as to evaluate the effect of long-term treatment with belviq on the incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events in overweight and obese patients with cardiovascular disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors. the cardiovascular outcomes trial will include echocardiographic assessments. in addition we may decide or need to conduct additional studies, clinical trials or analyses of belviq, including in connection with seeking regulatory approval of belviq outside of the united states. unfavorable results from these studies, trials or analyses could negatively impact market acceptance of belviq, limit the revenues we generate from sales, result in belviq’s withdrawal from the market, and preclude us from achieving or sustaining profitability. we may not be successful in initiating or completing our studies or trials or advancing our programs on our projected timetable, if at all. any failure to initiate or delays in our studies, trials or development programs, or unfavorable results or decisions or negative perceptions regarding any of our programs, could cause our stock price to decline significantly. this is particularly the case with respect to belviq. we may report top-line data from time to time, which is based on a preliminary analysis of then-available efficacy and safety data, and such findings and conclusions are subject to change following a more comprehensive review of the data related to the particular study or trial. in addition, we make assumptions, estimations and calculations as part of our analyses of data, and others, including regulatory agencies, may not accept or agree with our assumptions, estimations, calculations or analyses or may interpret or weigh the importance of data differently, which could impact the value of the particular program, the approvability or commercialization of the particular drug candidate or drug and our company in general. if we do not commercialize belviq with one or more pharmaceutical companies outside of the territories under existing collaborations, our lack of corporate experience and resources may negatively impact our ability to commercialize belviq in such territories. subject to applicable regulatory approval, we expect to commercialize belviq outside of the territories under existing collaborations with one or more collaborators or independently. we may not be able to enter into agreements to commercialize belviq in such territories on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to enter into such agreements, and we develop or acquire our own capabilities to commercialize belviq in any territory independently, we may require additional capital to develop such capabilities and the marketing and sale of belviq in such territory may be delayed or otherwise impeded by our lack of resources. we may not be successful in developing the requisite capabilities to commercialize belviq without a collaborator. even if we were able to do so, we have not previously commercialized a drug, and our limited experience may make us less effective at commercial planning, marketing and selling than a more experienced pharmaceutical company. our lack of corporate experience and adequate resources may impede our efforts to successfully commercialize belviq independently.   38 table of contents we face competition in our search for pharmaceutical companies to commercialize belviq in additional territories. in addition, if our competitors are able to establish commercialization arrangements with companies who have substantially greater resources than we have (or, with respect to commercializing belviq in a territory under an existing marketing and supply agreement, than our collaborator has), our competitors may be more successful in marketing and selling their drugs, and our ability to successfully commercialize belviq will be limited. our drug candidates are subject to extensive regulation, and we may not receive required regulatory approvals, or timely approvals, for any of our drug candidates. the preclinical and clinical development, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution, and other possible activities relating to belviq and our drug candidates are, and any other resulting drugs will be, subject to extensive regulation by the fda and other regulatory agencies. we are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the fda, the dea and other regulatory agencies, including inspections at arena gmbh by the fda, swissmedic and other regulatory agencies. failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may, either before or after product approval, subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions that may negatively impact the commercialization of belviq or approval of one or more of our drug candidates or otherwise negatively impact our business. regulatory agencies have in the past inspected certain aspects of our business in the united states and switzerland, and we were provided with observations of objectionable conditions or practices with respect to our business in the united states. we believe we satisfactorily addressed such observations, but there is no assurance that regulatory agencies will not provide us with observations in future inspections or that we satisfactorily addressed observations provided to us in past inspections. neither collaborators nor we are permitted to market a drug candidate in the united states until the particular drug candidate is approved for marketing by the fda. specific preclinical data, chemistry, manufacturing and controls data, a proposed clinical trial protocol and other information must be submitted to the fda as part of an investigational new drug, or ind, application, and clinical trials may commence only after the ind application becomes effective. to market a new drug in the united states, we must submit to the fda and obtain fda approval of an nda. an nda must be supported by extensive clinical and preclinical data, as well as extensive information regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the drug candidate. following its review of an nda or a response to a complete response letter, or crl, the fda may approve the nda or issue a crl. obtaining approval of an nda can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. as part of the prescription drug user fee act, or pdufa, the fda has a goal to review and act on a percentage of all submissions in a given time frame. the fda’s review goals are subject to change, and it is unknown whether any particular fda review will be completed within the fda’s review goals or will be delayed. moreover, the duration of the fda’s review may depend on the number and types of other submissions with the fda around the same time period. as with belviq, any drug that acts on the cns has the potential to be scheduled as a controlled substance by the dea. dea scheduling is a separate process that can delay drug launch beyond an nda approval date, and the timing and outcome of such dea process is uncertain. for example, the fda approved the nda for belviq in june 2012, but belviq will not be marketed in the united states until the dea makes its final scheduling designation, and the outcome may be different or take longer than what is expected. consistent with the fda’s recommendation, the dea has proposed that belviq be scheduled as a schedule iv drug. dea scheduling ranges from i to v, with i being the most tightly controlled category. if belviq were to be scheduled in a tightly controlled category, such scheduling could negatively impact the ability or willingness to prescribe or dispense belviq, the likelihood that patients will use it and other aspects of our and eisai’s ability to commercialize it. the scheduling designation can also change after it has been finalized. regulatory approval of an nda is not guaranteed. the number and types of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for fda approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to target and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. despite   39 table of contents the time and expense exerted in preclinical and clinical studies, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. the fda can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including:     •   a drug candidate may not be deemed adequately safe and effective;     •   fda officials may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient;     •   the fda’s interpretation and our interpretation of data from preclinical studies and clinical trials may differ significantly;     •   our or our contractors’ or collaborators’ failure to comply with applicable fda and other regulatory requirements, including those identified in other risk factors;     •   the fda may not approve the manufacturing processes or facilities;     •   the fda may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations; or     •   the fda may not accept an nda or other submission due to, among other reasons, the content or formatting of the submission. even if approved, drug candidates may not be approved for all indications requested and such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed, restricted distribution methods or other limitations, such as those required by a risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, or rems. with the exception of our regulatory submissions for belviq, we have not previously submitted an application for marketing approval in the united states or any other jurisdiction. this lack of corporate experience may impede our ability to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner, if at all, for belviq in territories in which regulatory approval is our responsibility or for any of our drug candidates. our preclinical and clinical data, other information and procedures relating to a drug candidate may not be sufficient to support approval by the fda or any other us or foreign regulatory authority, or regulatory interpretation of these data and procedures may be unfavorable. our business and reputation may be harmed by any failure or significant delay in receiving regulatory approval for the sale of any drugs resulting from our drug candidates. as a result, we cannot predict when or whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any drug we or our collaborators develop. to market any drugs outside of the united states, we and our current or future collaborators must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries. approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. the time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain fda approval. the regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks associated with fda approval as well as additional risks, some of which may be unanticipated. with respect to our belviq collaborations, our collaborators are responsible for regulatory filings, and we will depend on their capabilities, plans and diligence in obtaining regulatory approval. in march 2012, we filed an maa for eu approval of belviq, and the ema accepted the filing for review. the eu regulatory authorities could determine that our application and data from our belviq studies and trials is not sufficient for eu approval. the approval requirements in the european union are different than in the united states. for example, the ema guidelines provide that clinical trials assessing drug candidates intended for weight control should subject patients to a weight reducing diet run-in period, and our phase 3 clinical trials did not include a run-in period. such ema guidelines also provide primary and alternative primary efficacy criteria for weight loss drug candidates. we believe belviq will satisfy the ema’s alternative primary efficacy criterion, which is the proportion of responders achieving more than 10% weight loss at the end of a 12-month period. however, we do not believe belviq meets the more stringent ema primary efficacy criterion, which requires demonstrating weight loss of at least 10% of baseline weight that is also at least 5% greater than that associated with placebo. the ema has also raised questions regarding the dropout rate in our clinical trials and how this affects the analysis of efficacy in those trials.   40 table of contents in october 2012, we submitted our response to the chmp’s day 120 list of questions regarding the belviq maa. the day 120 list of questions identified three issues as major objections: the tumor findings in rats, the dropout rate in clinical trials and how this affects the analysis of efficacy, and the incidences of valvulopathy. in january 2013, the chmp provided further feedback in the form of a day 180 list of outstanding issues. the major objections relate to non-clinical and clinical issues, including tumors in rats, valvulopathy and psychiatric events, and the chmp requested that we further justify belviq’s overall benefit-risk balance taking these issues into consideration. the issues will need to be addressed before the chmp can recommend belviq for marketing approval in the european union. we have responded to the day 180 list of outstanding issues in writing. as part of this process, the chmp will consult with groups of independent experts who will provide recommendations on the outstanding issues. in addition, we have been invited by the chmp to provide an oral explanation, and we expect to have other discussions with the chmp and their experts. we have also submitted a maa with swissmedic for the marketing approval of belviq in switzerland. in february 2013, swissmedic provided feedback to our maa in the form of a list of questions with major objections, which include objections that are similar to those identified with respect to our maa for the european union. we are in the process of preparing our response. we cannot assure you that our past or any further responses will be sufficient to the chmp, the ema, swissmedic or others, that the chmp, the ema, swissmedic or others will consider our belviq program or data, including with regard to belviq’s efficacy or safety, as sufficient, that the chmp will recommend to the ema that belviq be approved when we expect or at all, or that the ema, swissmedic or any other regulatory authority will ever approve belviq. regulatory approval in one territory does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one territory may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. failure to obtain regulatory approval in a territory, any delay or setback in obtaining such approval, or our regulatory strategy or decisions could adversely affect the regulatory approval or commercialization of our drug candidates in other territories, including that our drug candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed, and with regard to the pricing or reimbursement of any approved drugs. our drugs will still be subject to extensive post-marketing regulation if approved. following regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates, we and our collaborators will be subject to ongoing obligations and continued regulatory review from the fda and other applicable regulatory agencies, such as continued adverse event reporting requirements. as with belviq, there may also be additional post-marketing obligations imposed by the fda or other regulatory agencies. these obligations may result in significant expense and limit the ability to commercialize such drugs. the fda or other regulatory agencies may also require that the sponsor of the nda or foreign equivalent, as applicable, conduct additional clinical trials to further assess approved drugs after approval under a post-approval commitment. such additional studies may be costly and may impact the commercialization of the drug. for example, as part of the approval of belviq, we and eisai committed to conduct post-marketing studies to assess the safety and efficacy of belviq for weight management in obese pediatric patients, as well as to evaluate the effect of long-term treatment with belviq on the incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events in overweight and obese subjects with cardiovascular disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors. these trials are costly and time consuming, and unfavorable results could negatively impact market acceptance of belviq,   41 table of contents limit the revenues we generate from sales, result in belviq’s withdrawal from the market, negatively impact the potential approval of belviq in other territories and preclude us from achieving or sustaining profitability. the fda or other regulatory agencies may also impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses for which a drug may be marketed. additionally, the fda may require a rems, including in connection with a drug’s approval, to help ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh its risks. a rems may be required to include various elements, such as a medication guide or patient package insert, a communication plan to educate healthcare providers of the drug’s risks, limitations on who may prescribe or dispense the drug, requirements that patients enroll in a registry or undergo certain health evaluations or other measures that the fda deems necessary to ensure the safe use of the drug. with regard to belviq and any of our drug candidates that receive regulatory approval, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion for the drug will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. we and the manufacturers of our products are also required to comply with cgmp regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. further, regulatory agencies must approve these manufacturing facilities before they can be used to manufacture our products, and these facilities are subject to ongoing regulatory inspections. in addition, regulatory agencies subject a drug, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and inspections. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the drug is manufactured, may result in restrictions on the marketing of that drug, up to and including withdrawal of the drug from the market. in the united states, the dea and comparable state-level agencies also heavily regulate the manufacturing, holding, processing, security, recordkeeping and distribution of drugs that are considered controlled substances. if any of our drug candidates are scheduled by the dea as controlled substances, we will also become subject to the dea’s regulations. consistent with the fda’s recommendation, the dea has proposed that belviq be scheduled as a schedule iv drug. if belviq were to be scheduled in a tightly controlled category, such scheduling could negatively impact the ability or willingness to prescribe or dispense belviq, the likelihood that patients will use it and other aspects of our and eisai’s ability to commercialize it. the scheduling designation can also change after it has been finalized. the dea periodically inspects facilities for compliance with its rules and regulations. if our manufacturing facilities or those of our suppliers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such noncompliance could result in regulatory action and additional costs to us. failure to comply with applicable fda and other regulatory requirements may, either before or after product approval, if any, subject our company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including:     •   issuance of inspectional notices of violation or warning letters by the fda or other regulatory agencies;     •   imposition of fines and other civil penalties;     •   criminal prosecutions;     •   injunctions, suspensions or revocations of regulatory approvals;     •   suspension of any ongoing clinical trials;     •   total or partial suspension of manufacturing;     •   delays in commercialization;     •   refusal by the fda to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or collaborators;     •   refusals to permit drugs to be imported into or exported from the united states;     •   restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; and     •   product recalls or seizures.   42 table of contents the fda’s and other regulatory agencies’ policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our drug candidates or further restrict or regulate post-approval activities. we cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the united states or abroad. if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we or our collaborators might not be permitted to market our drugs and our business could suffer. our ability to generate revenues from belviq or any of our drug candidates that receive regulatory approval will be subject to a variety of risks, many of which are out of our control. belviq or any of our drug candidates that may be approved for marketing may not gain market acceptance among patients, healthcare providers, healthcare payers or the medical community. we believe that the degree of market acceptance and our ability to generate revenues from such products will depend on a number of factors, including:     •   timing of market introduction of our drugs and competitive drugs and alternative treatments;     •   actual and perceived efficacy and safety of our drug candidates;     •   incidence and severity of any side effects;     •   potential or perceived advantages or disadvantages as compared to alternative treatments;     •   strength of sales, marketing and distribution support;     •   price of our future products, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments;     •   the effect of current and future healthcare laws on our drug candidates;     •   availability of coverage and reimbursement from government and other third-party payers; and     •   product labeling or product insert requirements of the fda or other regulatory authorities. if our approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenues to achieve or sustain profitability. drug development programs are expensive, time consuming, uncertain and susceptible to change, interruption, delay or termination. drug development programs are very expensive, time consuming and difficult to design and implement. our drug candidates are in various stages of research and development and are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. in addition, the fda or other regulatory authority may require us to, or we or others may decide to, conduct additional research and development of any of our approved drugs. for example, the fda is requiring us to conduct post-marketing studies of belviq, and we or others may conduct additional studies or trials of belviq alone or in combination with other drugs. clinical trials and preclinical studies are needed to demonstrate that drug candidates are safe and effective to the satisfaction of the fda and similar non-us regulatory authorities. these trials and studies are expensive and uncertain processes that may take years to complete. failure can occur at any stage of the process, and successful early preclinical studies or clinical trials do not ensure that later studies or trials will be successful. in addition, the commencement or completion of our planned preclinical studies or clinical trials could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including the following:     •   limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients required for enrollment in our clinical trials or animals to conduct our preclinical studies;     •   limited number of, and competition for, suitable sites to conduct our clinical trials or preclinical studies;     •   delay or failure to obtain fda approval or agreement to commence a clinical trial or fda approval of a study protocol;   43 table of contents   •   delay or failure to obtain sufficient supplies of drug candidates, drugs or other materials for the trial or study;     •   delay or failure to reach agreement on acceptable agreement terms or protocols; and     •   delay or failure to obtain institutional review board, or irb, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. even if the results of our development programs are favorable, the development programs of our most advanced drug candidates, including those being developed by collaborators, may take significantly longer and cost more than expected to complete. in addition, the fda, other regulatory authorities, collaborators, or we may suspend, delay or terminate our development programs at any time for various reasons, including:     •   lack of effectiveness of any drug candidate during clinical trials;     •   side effects experienced by study participants or other safety issues;     •   slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment or lower than expected patient retention rates;     •   delays or inability to manufacture or obtain sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials;     •   inadequacy of or changes in our manufacturing process or compound formulation;     •   delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a study, or “clinical holds,” or delays requiring suspension or termination of a study by a regulatory authority, such as the fda, after a study is commenced;     •   changes in applicable regulatory policies and regulations;     •   delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites;     •   uncertainty regarding proper dosing;     •   unfavorable results from ongoing clinical trials or preclinical studies;     •   failure of our clinical research organizations to comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or otherwise perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner;     •   scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions;     •   failure to design appropriate clinical trial protocols;     •   insufficient data to support regulatory approval;     •   termination of clinical trials by one or more clinical trial sites;     •   inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols;     •   difficulty in maintaining contact with subjects during or after treatment, which may result in incomplete data;     •   lack of sufficient funding to continue clinical trials or preclinical studies; or     •   changes in business priorities or perceptions of the value of the program. there is typically a high rate of attrition from the failure of drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials, and many companies have experienced significant setbacks in advanced development programs even after promising results in earlier studies or trials. we have experienced setbacks in our internal and partnered development programs and expect to experience additional setbacks from time to time in the future. if we or our collaborators abandon or are delayed in our development efforts related to belviq or any drug candidate, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to continue our operations at the current level or become   44 table of contents profitable, our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged, additional funding may not be available to us or may not be available on terms we or others believe are favorable, and our stock price may decrease significantly. the results of preclinical studies and completed clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and our current drug candidates or any approved drugs may not have favorable results in later studies or trials. preclinical studies and phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials are not primarily designed to test the efficacy of a drug candidate, but rather to test safety, to study pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, and to understand the drug candidate’s side effects at various doses and schedules. favorable results in early studies or trials may not be repeated in later studies or trials, including continuing preclinical studies and large-scale clinical trials, and our drug candidates or drugs in later-stage trials may fail to show desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through earlier-stage trials. unfavorable results from ongoing preclinical studies or clinical trials could result in delays, modifications or abandonment of ongoing or future clinical trials, or abandonment of a program. preclinical and clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals or commercialization. negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be delayed, repeated or terminated; a program to be abandoned; or negatively impact a related marketed drug. many of our research and development programs are in early stages of development, and may not result in the commencement of clinical trials. many of our research and development programs are in the discovery or preclinical stage of development. the process of discovering compounds with therapeutic potential is expensive, time consuming and unpredictable. similarly, the process of conducting preclinical studies of compounds that we discover requires the commitment of a substantial amount of our technical and financial resources and personnel. we may not discover additional compounds with sufficient therapeutic potential, and any of our preclinical compounds may not result in the commencement of clinical trials. we cannot be certain that results sufficiently favorable to justify commencement of phase 1 clinical trials will be obtained in these preclinical investigations. even if such favorable preclinical results are obtained, our financial resources may not allow us to commence phase 1 clinical trials. if we are unable to identify and develop new drug candidates, we may not be able to maintain a clinical development pipeline or generate revenues. we may participate in new strategic transactions that could impact our liquidity, increase our expenses, present significant distractions to our management and be viewed as unfavorable. from time to time we consider strategic transactions, such as out-licensing or in-licensing of compounds or technologies, acquisitions of companies and asset purchases. additional potential transactions we may consider include a variety of different business arrangements, such as strategic collaborations, joint ventures, spin-offs, restructurings, divestitures, business combinations and investments. in addition, another entity may pursue us as an acquisition target. any such transaction may be viewed as unfavorable by our stockholders or others and may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges, may create potential liabilities, may increase our near- and long-term expenditures and may pose significant integration challenges, require additional expertise or disrupt our management or business, which could harm our operations and financial results. as part of an effort to enter into significant transactions, we conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in the transaction. despite our efforts, we ultimately may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks and, as a result, might not realize the intended advantages of the transaction. if we fail to realize the expected benefits from any transaction we may consummate, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks or other events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.   45 table of contents drug discovery and development is intensely competitive in the therapeutic areas on which we focus. if our competitors develop treatments that are approved faster, marketed better, less expensive or demonstrated to be more effective or safer than our drug candidates, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. many of the drugs we or our collaborators are or may attempt to discover and develop may compete with existing therapies. in addition, many companies are pursuing the development of new drugs that target the same diseases and conditions that we target. for example, with regard to belviq, in july 2012, the fda approved vivus’s drug candidate for chronic weight management, and vivus announced the us market availability of its drug in september 2012. vivus is also seeking regulatory approval for its drug candidate outside of the united states. in addition, orexigen therapeutics, inc. is seeking fda approval for a drug candidate for a similar indication. with respect to future weight-loss treatments, we expect that companies and others may allocate resources to discover and develop additional drugs, additional drug candidates may be approved and competition may increase. our competitors, particularly large pharmaceutical companies, may have substantially greater research, development and marketing capabilities and greater financial, scientific and human resources than we do. companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory agency approvals and commence commercial sale of their drugs before we do for the same indication may achieve a significant competitive advantage, including certain patent and marketing exclusivity rights. in addition, our competitors’ drugs may have fewer side effects, more desirable characteristics (such as efficacy, route of administration or frequency of dosing), or be viewed more favorably by patients, healthcare providers, healthcare payers, the medical community, the media or others than our drug candidates or drugs, if any, for the same indication. our competitors may also market generic or other drugs that compete with our drugs at a lower price than our drugs, which may negatively impact our drug sales, if any. any results from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with our existing or any future collaborators, may not compete successfully with existing or newly discovered products or therapies. collaborative relationships may lead to disputes and delays in drug development and commercialization, and we may not realize the full commercial potential of our drug candidates. we may have conflicts with our prospective, current or past collaborators, such as conflicts concerning rights and obligations under our agreements, the interpretation of preclinical or clinical data, the achievement of milestone or other payments, the ownership of intellectual property, or research and development, regulatory or commercialization strategy. collaborators may stop supporting our drug candidates or drugs, including if they no longer view the program as in their best financial or other interests or they develop or obtain rights to competing drug candidates or drugs. in addition, collaborators may fail to effectively develop, obtain approval for or commercialize our drugs, which may result in us not realizing their full commercial potential. if any conflicts arise with any of our current, past or prospective collaborators, the other party may act in a manner that is adverse to our interests. any such disagreement could result in one or more of the following, each of which could delay, or lead to termination of, development or commercialization of our drug candidates or drugs, and in turn prevent us from generating revenues:     •   unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to pay for studies or other research, milestone payments, royalties or other payments that we believe are due to us under a collaboration;     •   uncertainty regarding ownership of intellectual property rights arising from our collaborative activities, which could prevent us from entering into additional collaborations;     •   unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities or to permit public disclosure of the results of those activities;   46 table of contents   •   slowing or cessation of a collaborator’s research, development, regulatory or commercialization efforts with respect to our drug candidates or drugs; or     •   litigation or arbitration. setbacks and consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and inadequate third-party coverage and reimbursement could make entering into agreements with pharmaceutical companies to collaborate or commercialize our drugs more difficult and diminish our revenues. setbacks in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, such as those caused by safety concerns relating to drugs like meridia, avandia, vioxx and celebrex, or drug candidates, as well as competition from generic drugs, litigation, and industry consolidation, may have an adverse effect on us. for example, the fda may be more cautious in approving our drug candidates based on safety concerns relating to these or other drugs or drug candidates, or pharmaceutical companies may be less willing to enter into new collaborations or continue existing collaborations if they are integrating a new operation as a result of a merger or acquisition or if their therapeutic areas of focus change following a merger. moreover, our and our collaborators’ ability to commercialize any of our drugs that have been or may be approved will depend in part on government regulation and the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, including private health insurers and government payers, such as the medicaid and medicare programs, increases in government-run, single-payer health insurance plans and compulsory licenses of drugs. government and third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting coverage and reimbursement levels for new drugs. in addition, in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act, or collectively, ppaca, was passed, which has significantly affected the pharmaceutical industry. in addition to extending coverage to patients otherwise uninsured, ppaca includes, among several other provisions relating to pharmaceuticals, measures that impose a new nondeductible fee on certain branded drugs based on market share in government healthcare programs, increases in rebates for government programs such as medicaid, and the creation of a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. given the continuing discussion regarding the cost of healthcare, managed care, universal healthcare coverage and other healthcare issues, we also cannot predict with certainty what additional healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on our business. ppaca and any additional legislation or regulations may limit our commercial opportunities by reducing the amount a potential collaborator is willing to pay to license our programs or drug candidates in the future due to a reduction in the potential revenues from drug sales. moreover, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before regulatory agencies approve our drug candidates for marketing. adoption of such legislation and regulations could further limit pricing approvals for, and reimbursement of, drugs. a government or third-party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our drugs, if any, could limit market acceptance of and demand for our drugs. we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and many of our preclinical studies. if those parties do not comply with regulatory and contractual requirements, successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, our drug candidates may not advance in a timely manner or at all. in the course of our discovery, preclinical testing and clinical trials, we rely on third parties, including laboratories, investigators, clinical research organizations and manufacturers, to perform critical services for us. for example, we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and many of our preclinical studies. clinical research organizations are responsible for many aspects of the trials, including finding and enrolling subjects for testing and administering the trials. although we rely on these third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its investigational plan and protocol. moreover, the fda and foreign regulatory authorities require us to comply with regulations and   47 table of contents standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, or gcps, for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. these third parties may not be available when we need them or, if they are available, may not comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or may not otherwise perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner, and we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our preclinical studies or clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. these independent third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. in addition, if such third parties fail to perform their obligations in compliance with regulatory requirements and our protocols, our preclinical studies or clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements or may need to be repeated. as a result of our dependence on third parties, we may face delays or failures outside of our direct control. these risks also apply to the development activities of collaborators, and we do not control their research and development, clinical trial or regulatory activities. our efforts will be seriously jeopardized if we are unable to retain and attract key and other employees. our success depends on the continued contributions of our principal management, development and scientific personnel, and the ability to hire and retain key and other personnel. we face competition for such personnel, and we believe that risks and uncertainties related to our business, including the timing and risk associated with research, development and commercialization, the regulatory process, our available and anticipated cash resources, pending and possible future litigation involving us, and the volatility of our stock price, may impact our ability to hire and retain key and other personnel. the loss of services of any principal member of our management or scientific staff or other personnel, particularly jack lief, our chairman, president and chief executive officer, and dominic p. behan, ph.d., our executive vice president and chief scientific officer, or a combination of different key employees, could adversely impact our operations and ability to generate or raise additional capital. to our knowledge, neither mr. lief nor dr. behan plans to leave, retire or otherwise disassociate with us in the near future. we may incur substantial liabilities for any product liability claims or otherwise as a drug product manufacturer. we develop, test, manufacture and expect to commercialize drugs for use by humans. we face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our drug candidates in clinical trials, and will face an even greater risk with the commercialization of belviq as well as with any other approved drugs. in addition, under the eisai agreement, arena gmbh has agreed to indemnify eisai for certain losses resulting from product liability claims, except to the extent caused by eisai’s negligence, willful misconduct, violation of law or breach of such agreement or related agreements. whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability or related litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. in addition, damages awarded in a product liability action could be substantial and could have a negative impact on our financial condition. an individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our drugs or drug candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:     •   decreased demand for our drug;     •   injury to our reputation;     •   increased difficulty to attract, or withdrawal of, clinical trial subjects;     •   costs of related litigation;     •   substantial monetary awards to subjects or other claimants;   48 table of contents   •   loss of revenues; and     •   the inability to commercialize our drug candidates. we will have limited product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials and products. we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost, and we may not have insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise, which could have an adverse effect on our capital sources and financial condition. arena gmbh manufactures drug products for siegfried and will manufacture belviq for commercialization in the united states and, subject to applicable regulatory approval, in other territories. arena gmbh is subject to liability for non-performance, product recalls and breaches of the agreements with siegfried, eisai and ildong. we have significant contractual obligations, which may adversely affect our cash flow, cash position and stock price. we have long-term leases on real properties and other contractual obligations. if we are unable to generate cash from operations sufficient to meet financial obligations, we will need to obtain additional funds from other sources, which may include one or more financings. however, we may be unable to obtain sufficient additional funds when we need them on favorable terms or at all. the sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt-financing arrangements may require us to enter into covenants that would further restrict certain business activities or our ability to incur additional indebtedness, and may contain other terms that are not favorable to our stockholders or us. also, if we are unable to generate cash from operations or obtain additional funds from other sources sufficient to meet our contractual obligations, or we need to use existing cash to fund our contractual obligations, we may have to delay or curtail some or all of our research, development and commercialization programs, or sell or license some or all of our assets on terms that you or others may view as unfavorable. our contractual obligations could have significant additional negative consequences, including, without limitation:     •   increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions;     •   limiting our ability to obtain additional funds; and     •   placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. we may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse and false claims laws and regulations. if we are unable to comply, or have not fully complied, with such laws, we could face substantial penalties and prosecution. in the united states, drug manufacturers and marketers are subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal anti-kickback statute and federal false claims act. there are similar laws in other countries. these laws may impact, among other things, the sales, marketing and education programs for our drugs. the federal anti-kickback statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willingly soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the medicare and medicaid programs. several courts have interpreted the statute’s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. the anti-kickback statute is broad and, despite a series of narrow safe harbors, prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. moreover, the ppaca, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal healthcare fraud statutes. a person or entity no   49 table of contents longer needs to have actual knowledge of these statutes or specific intent to violate them. the ppaca also provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims act. penalties for violations of the federal anti-kickback statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from medicare, medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal anti-kickback statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the medicare and medicaid programs. the federal false claims act prohibits persons from knowingly filing, or causing to be filed, a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. suits filed under the false claims act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, commonly known as “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. the filing of qui tam actions has caused a number of pharmaceutical, medical device and other healthcare companies to have to defend a false claims act action. when an entity is determined to have violated the false claims act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim. various states have also enacted laws modeled after the federal false claims act. we are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under any of these or other fraud and abuse laws, or the impact of such actions. if we are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare reimbursement programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may not be able to effectively integrate or manage our international operations and such difficulty could adversely affect our stock price, business operations, financial condition and results of operations. the headquarters of our operations outside of the united states is in switzerland. activities conducted at this location include manufacturing, quality control, quality assurance, development of manufacturing processes, qualifying suppliers and otherwise managing aspects of the global supply chain, regulatory compliance, distribution of finished products, and european strategic planning and development. there are significant risks associated with foreign operations, including, but not limited to, compliance with local laws and regulations, the protection of our intellectual property, the ability to integrate our corporate culture with local customs and cultures, the distraction to our management, foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of shifts in the united states and local economies on those rates, and integration of our policies and procedures, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, with our international operations. we use biological materials, hazardous materials, chemicals and radioactive compounds. our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds that could be hazardous to human health and safety or the environment. these materials and various wastes resulting from their use are stored at our facility pending ultimate use and disposal. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination, which could cause:     •   interruption of our research and development or manufacturing efforts;     •   injury to our employees and others;     •   environmental damage resulting in costly clean up; and     •   liabilities under domestic or foreign federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products.   50 table of contents in such an event, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could exceed our resources. although we carry insurance in amounts and type that we consider commercially reasonable, we cannot be certain that the coverage or coverage limits of our insurance policies will be adequate and we do not have insurance coverage for losses relating to an interruption of our research and development efforts caused by contamination. our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other event. our us operations, including laboratories, offices and a chemical development facility, are located in the same business park in san diego. we also have a drug product facility in zofingen, switzerland, and we expect that, at least for the foreseeable future, this facility will be the sole location for the manufacturing of belviq finished drug product. we depend on our facilities and on collaborators, contractors and vendors for the continued operation of our business, some of whom are located in europe and asia. natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including interruptions in the supply of natural resources, political and governmental changes, severe weather conditions, wildfires and other fires, explosions, actions of animal rights activists, terrorist attacks, earthquakes and wars could disrupt our operations or those of our collaborators, contractors and vendors. even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable business interruption and liability insurance, and our contractors may carry liability insurance that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our and our contractors’ insurance policies or for which we or our contractors do not have coverage. for example, we are not insured against a terrorist attack. any natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial results. moreover, any such event could delay our research and development programs and adversely affect, which may include stopping, our commercial production. our executive officers and directors may sell shares of their stock, and these sales could adversely affect our stock price. sales of our stock by our executive officers and directors, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. our executive officers and directors may sell stock in the future, either as part, or outside, of trading plans under sec rule 10b5-1. currency fluctuations may negatively affect our financial condition. we primarily spend and generate cash in us dollars, and present our consolidated financial statements in us dollars. however, a portion of our expected and potential payments and receipts under our agreements are in foreign currencies, including swiss francs. for example, payments and receipts under our agreements with siegfried are required to be paid in swiss francs. a fluctuation of the exchange rates of foreign currencies versus the us dollar may, thus, adversely affect our financial results, including cash balances, expenses and revenues. we may enter into hedging transactions to try to reduce our foreign currency exposure in the future, but there is no assurance that such transactions will occur or be successful. laws, rules and regulations relating to public companies may be costly and impact our ability to attract and retain directors and executive officers. laws and regulations affecting public companies, including rules adopted by the sec and by nasdaq, as well as the laws and regulations of foreign governments, may result in increased costs to us, particularly as we continue to develop the required capabilities in the united states and abroad to commercialize our products. these laws, rules and regulations could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. the impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on our board committees or as executive officers. we cannot estimate accurately the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to these laws, rules and regulations.   51 table of contents risks relating to our intellectual property our success is dependent on intellectual property rights held by us and third parties and our interest in these rights is complex and uncertain. our success will depend on our own and on current or future collaborators’ abilities to obtain, secure and defend patents. in particular, the patents directed to belviq and our drug candidates are important to commercializing drugs. we have numerous us and foreign patent applications pending for our technologies. there is no assurance that any of our patent applications will issue, or that any of the patents will be enforceable or will cover a drug or other commercially significant technology or method, or that the patents will be held to be valid for their expected terms. the procedures for obtaining a patent in the united states and in most foreign countries are complex. these procedures require an analysis of the scientific technology related to the invention and many sophisticated legal issues. obtaining patent rights outside the united states often requires the translation of highly technical documents and an improper translation may lead to the loss of, or otherwise jeopardize, the patent protection of our inventions. ensuring adequate quality of translators and foreign patent attorneys is often very challenging. consequently, the process for having our pending patent applications issue as patents will be difficult, complex and time consuming. our patent position is very uncertain and we do not know when, or if, we will obtain additional patents for our technologies, or if the scope of the patents obtained will be sufficient to protect our drugs, or be considered sufficient by parties reviewing our patent positions pursuant to a potential marketing, licensing or financing transaction. in addition, other entities may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents and patent applications in litigation or administrative proceedings. even the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. we cannot make assurances as to how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them or they are challenged. it is possible that a competitor or a generic pharmaceutical provider may successfully challenge our patents and those challenges may result in reduction or elimination of our patents’ coverage. we also rely on confidentiality agreements and trade secrets to protect our technologies. however, such information is difficult to protect. we require our employees to contractually agree not to improperly use our confidential information or disclose it to others, but we may be unable to determine if our employees have conformed or will conform to their legal obligations under these agreements. we also enter into confidentiality agreements with prospective collaborators, collaborators, service providers and consultants, but we may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of this information. many of our employees and consultants were, and many of them may currently be, parties to confidentiality agreements with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and the use of our technologies could violate these agreements. in addition, third parties may independently discover our trade secrets or proprietary information. some of our academic institution licensors, research collaborators and scientific advisors have rights to publish data and information to which we have rights. we generally seek to prevent our collaborators from disclosing scientific discoveries before we have the opportunity to file patent applications on such discoveries. in some of our collaborations, we do not control our collaborators’ ability to disclose their own discoveries under the collaboration and in some of our academic collaborations we are limited to relatively short periods to review a proposed publication and file a patent application. if we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technologies and other confidential information in connection with our collaborations, our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information will be impaired. we believe that the united states is by far the largest single market for pharmaceuticals in the world. because of the critical nature of patent rights to our industry, changes in us patent laws could have a profound   52 table of contents effect on our future profits, if any. it is unknown which, if any, patent laws will change, how changes to the patent laws will ultimately be enforced by the courts and the impact on our business. for example, in september 2011 the america invents act was signed into us law, which changes include, among others, the awarding of a patent to the first inventor to file a patent as opposed to the first inventor to make an invention and the creation of new administrative procedures for challenging us patents. it may be several years before the impact of the america invents act on patent law is understood, and we cannot predict with certainty whether or to what extent the changes may impair our business. a dispute regarding the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be costly and result in delays or termination of our future research, development, manufacturing and sales activities. our commercial success depends upon our ability to develop and manufacture our drugs and drug candidates, market and sell drugs, and conduct our research and development activities without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. there are many patents and patent applications filed, and that may be filed, by others relating to drug discovery and development programs that could be determined to be similar, identical or superior to ours or our licensors or collaborators. we may be exposed to future litigation by others based on claims that our drugs, drug candidates, technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. numerous us and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others exist in the area of g protein-coupled receptors, or gpcrs, including some which purport to allow the patent holder to control the use of all drugs that modulate a particular drug target or gpcr, regardless of whether the infringing drug bears any structural resemblance to a chemical compound known to the patent holder at the time of patent filing. numerous us and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others also exist in the therapeutic areas in, and for the therapeutic targets for, which we are developing drugs. there are also numerous issued patents and patent applications to chemical compounds or synthetic processes that may be necessary or useful to use in our research, development, manufacturing or commercialization activities. these could materially affect our ability to develop our drug candidates or manufacture, import or sell drugs, and our activities, or those of our licensors or collaborators, could be determined to infringe these patents. because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our drugs, drug candidates or technologies may infringe. there also may be existing patents, of which we are not aware, that our drug candidates or technologies may infringe. further, there may be issued patents or pending patent applications in fields relevant to our business, of which we are or may become aware, that we believe (i) are invalid or we do not infringe; (ii) relate to immaterial portions of our overall drug discovery, development, manufacturing and commercialization efforts; or (iii) in the case of pending patent applications, the resulting patent would not be granted or, if granted, would not likely be enforced in a manner that would materially impact such efforts. we cannot assure you that others holding any of these patents or patent applications will not assert infringement claims against us for damages or seek to enjoin our activities. we also cannot assure you that, in the event of litigation, we will be able to successfully assert any belief we may have as to non-infringement, invalidity or immateriality, or that any infringement claims will be resolved in our favor. in addition, others may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary rights, and we may have to institute costly legal action to protect our intellectual property rights. we may not be able to afford the costs of enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights against others. other organizations, companies and individuals are seeking proprietary positions on genomics information that overlap with the government-sponsored project to sequence the human genome. our activities, or those of our licensors or collaborators, could be affected by conflicting positions that may exist between any overlapping genomics information made available publicly as a result of the government-sponsored project and genomics information that other organizations, companies or individuals consider to be proprietary. there could also be significant litigation and other administrative proceedings in our industry that affect us regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. any legal action or administrative action against us, or our collaborators, claiming   53 table of contents damages or seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to our drug discovery, development, manufacturing and commercialization activities could:     •   require us, or our collaborators, to obtain a license to continue to use, manufacture or market the affected drugs, methods or processes, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all;     •   prevent us from importing, making, using, selling or offering to sell the subject matter claimed in patents held by others and subject us to potential liability for damages;     •   consume a substantial portion of our managerial, scientific and financial resources; or     •   be costly, regardless of the outcome. furthermore, because of the substantial amount of pre-trial document and witness discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. in addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. we have been contacted from time to time by third parties regarding their intellectual property rights, sometimes asserting that we may need a license to use their technologies. for example, a third party has told us that it believes one of its issued us patents includes patent claims that cover belviq or its use. we do not believe such patent claims are valid or, even if they are valid, that they cover belviq or its use. if we fail to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to our technologies, we may become involved in expensive and time-consuming litigation or we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our drugs or drug candidates. we cannot protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world. filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patents on all of our drug discovery technologies and all of our potential drug candidates throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. competitors may use our technologies to develop their own drugs in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection. these drugs may compete with our drugs, if any, and may not be covered by any of our patent claims or other intellectual property rights. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. many countries, including certain countries in europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties (for example, the patent owner has failed to “work” the invention in that country or the third party has patented improvements). in addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. in these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. compulsory licensing of life-saving drugs is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries either through direct legislation or international initiatives. such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our drug candidates, which could limit our potential revenue opportunities. moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or pharmaceuticals, which makes it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents. proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business.   54 table of contents risks relating to our securities our stock price will likely be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value. our stock price has fluctuated historically. from january 1, 2011, to february 20, 2013, the market price of our stock was as low as $1.21 per share and as high as $13.50 per share. very few drug candidates being tested will ultimately receive regulatory approval, and companies in our industry sometimes experience significant volatility in their stock price. our stock price may fluctuate significantly depending on a variety of factors, including:     •   legislation or regulatory actions or decisions affecting belviq, including the timing and outcome of the dea’s scheduling designation and the decisions of other regulatory authorities relating to belviq, or other drugs or drug candidates, including those of our competitors;     •   the commercial launch and success or failure of belviq or any of our drug candidates;     •   the entrance into, or failure to enter into, a new collaboration or the modification or termination of an existing collaboration or other material transaction;     •   the timing and receipt by us of milestone and other payments or failing to achieve and receive the same;     •   fluctuation in quarterly results (including with respect to revenue recognition) or inaccurate sales or cash forecasting;     •   accounting restatements and changes;     •   supply chain or manufacturing issues;     •   discussions or recommendations affecting our drugs or drug candidates by fda advisory committees or other reviewers of preclinical or clinical data or other information related to belviq, drug candidates or other drugs;     •   results or decisions affecting the development or commercialization of belviq or any of our drug candidates, including the results of studies, trials and other analyses;     •   the development and implementation of our continuing development and research plans, including outcome studies and other research and development for belviq;     •   the timing of the discovery of drug leads and the development of our drug candidates;     •   changes in our research and development budget or the research and development budgets of our existing or potential collaborators;     •   the introduction, development or withdrawal of drug candidates or drugs by others that target the same diseases and conditions that we or our collaborators target or the introduction of new drug discovery techniques;     •   the success, failure or setbacks of our or a perceived competitor’s drugs or drug candidates;     •   expenses related to, and the results of, litigation, other disputes and other proceedings;     •   financing strategy or decisions;     •   developments in intellectual property rights or related announcements; and     •   capital market conditions. we are not able to control many of these factors. if our financial or scientific results in a particular period do not meet stockholders’ or analysts’ expectations, our stock price may decline and such decline could be significant.   55 table of contents there are a substantial number of shares of our common stock that may become eligible for future sale in the public market, and the sale of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. as of february 20, 2013, we had outstanding a seven-year warrant issued in june 2006 to purchase 1,467,405 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $8.76 per share and a seven-year warrant issued in august 2008 to purchase 1,965,418 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $4.34 per share. such seven-year warrants were adjusted as a result of certain equity sales following their issuance to decrease the exercise price and increase the number of shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants. certain future equity issuances below the pre-defined warrant adjustment price may result in additional adjustments to any such warrants then outstanding. along with our outstanding warrants, as of february 20, 2013, there were (i) options to purchase 13,890,247 shares of our common stock outstanding under our equity incentive plans at a weighted-average exercise price of $4.47 per share, (ii) 14,542,800 additional shares of common stock remaining issuable under our 2012 long-term incentive plan, (iii) 1,235,019 shares of common stock remaining issuable under our 2009 employee stock purchase plan, as amended, and (iv) 79,169 shares of common stock remaining issuable under our deferred compensation plan. the shares described above, when issued, will be available for immediate resale in the public market. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of such resales due to the increased number of shares available for sale in the market. as of february 20, 2013, there were 217,489,222 shares of our common stock outstanding. any future equity or debt issuances by us may have dilutive or adverse effects on our existing stockholders. we have primarily financed our operations, and we may continue to finance our operations, by issuing and selling our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock. we may issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities that could dilute your ownership in our company and may include terms that give new investors rights that are superior to yours. moreover, any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our common stock and in any event may have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. in addition, we may also raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt, and the holders of any debt we may issue would have rights superior to your rights in the event we are not successful and are forced to seek the protection of bankruptcy laws. the holders of our common stock and other securities may take actions that are contrary to your interests, including selling their stock. a small number of stockholders may hold or acquire a significant amount of our outstanding stock. from time to time, there is a large short interest in our stock. these holders of such stock or positions may support competing transactions and have interests that are different from yours. in addition, sales of a large number of shares of our stock by these large stockholders or other stockholders within a short period of time could adversely affect our stock price. we may also be involved with disagreements with the holders of our stock, warrants or other securities in the future. such disagreements may lead to litigation, which may be expensive and consume management’s time, or involve settlements, the terms of which may not be favorable to us.   56 table of contents certain of our agreements, provisions in our charter documents, possible future agreements and delaware law could delay or prevent a change in management or a takeover attempt that you may consider to be in your best interest. there is a standstill provision in the eisai agreement, and we may enter into agreements with similar provisions. in addition, we may in the future adopt a stockholders’ rights agreement, which would cause substantial dilution to any person who attempts to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. these provisions or agreements, as well as other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under delaware law, could delay or prevent the removal of directors and other management and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us that you may consider to be in your best interest. for example, our charter provisions:     •   allow our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval;     •   limit who can call a special meeting of stockholders;     •   eliminate stockholder action by written consent; and     •   establish advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at stockholders’ meetings.   item 1b. unresolved