item 1a. risk factors the following are certain of the important factors that could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this annual report on form 10-k or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. the markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants with innovative approaches and established companies with greater resources. we compete in markets that are intensely competitive, highly fragmented and rapidly changing. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased competition. as we expand into new areas to address the evolving nature of the internet, we may face competition from new and different companies. many of these potential competitors, as well as some of our current ones, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, broader customer relationships and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. other competitors may attract customers by offering less-sophisticated versions of services than we provide at lower prices than those we charge. given the relative ease with which some customers can potentially switch to another content delivery network provider, any differentiated offerings or lower pricing by competitors could lead to a rapid loss of customers. nimbler competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. in addition, current or potential competitors may bundle their offerings with other services, software or hardware in a manner that may discourage website owners from purchasing any service we offer. potential customers may decide to purchase or develop their own hardware, software and other technology solutions rather than rely on an external provider like akamai. as a result, our competitors include hardware manufacturers, software companies and other entities that offer internet-related solutions that are not service-based. it is an important component of our growth strategy to educate enterprises and government agencies about our services and convince them to entrust their content and applications to an external service provider, and akamai in particular. if we are unsuccessful in such efforts, our business could suffer. ultimately, increased competition of all types could result in price and revenue reductions, lower gross margins, loss of customers and loss of market share, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to continue to innovate and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results may suffer. the market for our services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and new product and service introductions. for example, individuals are increasingly using mobile devices to access internet content. our ability to provide new and innovative solutions to address challenges posed by   11 table of contents mobile users and other developments is important to our future growth; other companies are also looking to offer internet-related solutions, such as cloud computing, to generate growth. these other companies may develop technological or business model innovations in the markets we seek to address that are, or are perceived to be, equivalent or superior to our services. in addition, our customers’ business models may change in ways that we do not anticipate and these changes could reduce or eliminate our customers’ needs for our services. our operating results depend on our ability to adapt to market changes and develop and introduce new services into existing and emerging markets. the process of developing new technologies is complex and uncertain; we must commit significant resources to developing new services or enhancements to our existing services before knowing whether our investments will result in services the market will accept. furthermore, we may not execute successfully our technology initiatives because of errors in planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, misunderstandings about market demand or a lack of appropriate resources. prices we have been charging for some of our services have declined in recent years. this decline may continue in the future as a result of, among other things, existing and new competition in the markets we serve. in recent quarters, we have lowered the prices we charge many of our customers for our content delivery services in order to remain competitive. this has been particularly true for the digital media services. consequently, our historical revenue rates may not be indicative of future revenues based on comparable traffic volumes. in addition, our operating expenses have increased on an absolute basis in each of 2008, 2009 and 2010. if we are unable to sell our services at acceptable prices relative to our costs or if we are unsuccessful with our strategy of selling additional services and features to new or existing content delivery customers, our revenues and gross margins will decrease, and our business and financial results will suffer. failure to increase our revenues and keep our expenses consistent with revenues could prevent us from maintaining profitability at recent levels or at all. our revenue growth rate may decline in 2011 as a result of a number of factors including increasing competition, the inevitable decline in growth rates as our revenues increase to higher levels and macroeconomic factors affecting certain aspects of our business. we also believe our gross margins will decrease because we have large fixed expenses and expect to continue to incur significant bandwidth, co-location and other expenses, including increased depreciation on network equipment purchased in recent years. as a result, we may not be able to continue to maintain our current level of profitability in 2011 or on a quarterly or annual basis thereafter. there are numerous factors that could, alone or in combination with other factors, impede our ability to increase revenues and/or moderate expenses, including:     •   market pressure to decrease our prices;     •   significant increases in bandwidth costs or other operating expenses;     •   failure to increase sales of our core services;     •   increased competition;     •   any failure of our current and planned services and software to operate as expected;     •   loss of any significant customers or loss of existing customers at a rate greater than we increase our number of, and sales to, new customers or our sales to existing customers;     •   unauthorized use of or access to content delivered over our network or network failures;     •   the exhaustion of the supply of ipv4 addresses and the inability of akamai or other internet users to transition successfully or in a timely manner to ipv6;     •   failure of a significant number of customers to pay our fees on a timely basis or at all or failure to continue to purchase our services in accordance with their contractual commitments; and   12 table of contents   •   inability to attract high-quality customers to purchase and implement our current and planned services. general global market and economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our operating performance and results of operations. our business has been and could continue to be affected by general global economic and market conditions. weakness in the united states and/or worldwide economy has had and could continue to have a negative effect on our operating results, including decreases in revenues and operating cash flows. in particular, weakness in the online advertising market has affected and could continue to affect the success of our internet advertising-related initiatives and could have a negative impact on our media and other customers. to the extent customers are unable to profitably monetize the content we deliver on their behalf, they may reduce or eliminate the traffic we deliver on their behalf. such reductions in traffic would lead to a reduction in our revenues. additionally, in a down-cycle economic environment, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure, customer loss, slow down in commerce over the internet and corresponding decrease in traffic delivered over our network and failures by customers to pay amounts owed to us on a timely basis or at all. suppliers on which we rely for servers, bandwidth, co-location and other services could also be negatively impacted by economic conditions that, in turn, could have a negative impact on our operations or expenses. there can be no assurance, therefore, that current economic conditions or worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession will not have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. our failure to manage expected growth, diversification and changes to our business could harm us. we have continued to grow, diversify and evolve our business both in the united states and internationally. it is unclear, however, whether such growth will continue. in the event of a slowing or decline in our rate of growth, we must also address the challenges of establishing an appropriate organizational size while maintaining the quality of our services. if we are unable to do so, our profitability could be reduced. as a result of the diversification of our business, personnel growth, acquisitions and international expansion in recent years, many of our employees are now based outside of our cambridge, massachusetts, headquarters. however, nearly all management decisions are made by a relatively small group of individuals based primarily at our headquarters. if we are unable to appropriately increase management depth and decentralize our decision making at rates commensurate with our actual or desired growth rates, we may not be able to achieve our financial or operational goals. in addition, if we are unable to effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of employees, our business may be adversely affected. as our business evolves, we must also expand and adapt our operational infrastructure. our business relies on our data systems, billing systems, and other operational and financial reporting and control systems. all of these systems have become increasingly complex in the recent past due to the diversification and complexity of our business, acquisitions of new businesses with different systems and increased regulation over controls and procedures. to effectively manage our technical support infrastructure, we will need to continue to upgrade and improve our data systems, billing systems and other operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. these upgrades and improvements will require a dedication of resources and in some cases are likely to be complex. if we are unable to adapt our systems and organization in a timely and cost-effective manner to accommodate changing circumstances, our business may be adversely affected. because our services are complex and are deployed in complex environments, they may have errors or defects that could seriously harm our business. our services are highly complex and are designed to be deployed in and across numerous large and complex networks that we do not control. from time to time, we have needed to correct errors and defects in our software. in the future, there may be additional errors and defects in our software that may adversely affect our services. we may not have in place adequate quality assurance procedures to ensure that we detect errors in our software   13 table of contents in a timely manner. if we are unable to efficiently and cost-effectively fix errors or other problems that may be identified, or if there are unidentified errors that allow persons to improperly access our services, we could experience loss of revenues and market share, damage to our reputation, increased expenses and legal actions by our customers. if we elect to move into new areas that involve handling personally identifiable information or other important assets entrusted to us by our customers, the potential risks we face could increase. any unplanned interruption in the functioning of our network or services or attacks on our internal information technology systems could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenues and harm our business, financial results and reputation. our business is dependent on providing our customers with fast, efficient and reliable distribution of applications and content over the internet. for our core services, we currently provide a standard guarantee that our networks will deliver internet content 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. if we do not meet this standard, affected customers will be entitled to credits. our network or services could be disrupted by numerous events, including natural disasters, unauthorized access to our servers, failure or refusal of our third-party network providers to provide the necessary capacity, power losses and intentional disruptions of our services, such as disruptions caused by software viruses or attacks by unauthorized users. in addition, there have been and in the future may be attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems in order to steal information about our technology, financial data or other information or take other actions that would be damaging to us. although we have taken steps to prevent such disruptions and security breaches, there can be no assurance that attacks by unauthorized users will not be attempted in the future, that our security measures will be effective, or that a successful attack would not be damaging. any widespread interruption of the functioning of our network or services would reduce our revenues and could harm our business, financial results and reputation. any successful breach of the security of our information systems could lead to the unauthorized release of valuable confidential information, including trade secrets, material nonpublic information about our financial condition and sensitive data that others could use to compete against us. such consequences would likely harm our business and reputation. we may have insufficient transmission and server capacity, which could result in interruptions in our services and loss of revenues. our operations are dependent in part upon transmission capacity provided by third-party telecommunications network providers. in addition, our distributed network must be sufficiently robust to handle all of our customers’ traffic particularly in the event of unexpected surges in hd video traffic. we believe that, absent extraordinary circumstances, we have access to adequate capacity to provide our services; however, there can be no assurance that we are adequately prepared for unexpected increases in bandwidth demands by our customers. the bandwidth we have contracted to purchase may become unavailable for a variety of reasons, including payment disputes or network providers going out of business. any failure of these network providers to provide the capacity we require, due to financial or other reasons, may result in a reduction in, or interruption of, service to our customers and ultimately loss of those customers. if we are unable to obtain transmission capacity on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all, our business and financial results could suffer. in recent years, it has become increasingly expensive to collocate, or house, our servers at network facilities. we expect this trend to continue. these increased expenses have made, and will make, it more costly for us to expand our operations and more difficult for us to maintain or improve our gross margins. if we are unable to deploy on a timely and cost-effective basis enough servers to meet the needs of our customer base or effectively manage the functioning of those servers, we may lose customers. in addition, damage or destruction of, or other denial of access to, a facility where our servers are housed could result in a reduction in, or interruption of, service to our customers.   14 table of contents the potential exhaustion of the supply of unallocated ipv4 addresses and the inability of akamai and other internet users to successfully transition to ipv6 could harm our operations and the functioning of the internet as a whole. an internet protocol address, or ip address, is a numerical label that is assigned to any device connecting to the internet. today, the functioning of the internet is dependent on the use of internet protocol version 4, or ipv4, the fourth version of the internet protocol, which uses 32-bit addresses. we currently rely on the acquisition of ip addresses for the functioning and expansion of our network and expect such reliance to continue in the future. there are, however, only a finite number of ipv4 addresses. it is possible that the number of unallocated ipv4 addresses may be exhausted within one to two years. internet protocol version 6, or ipv6, uses 128-bit addresses and has been designed to succeed ipv4 and alleviate the expected exhaustion of unallocated addresses under that version. while ipv4 and ipv6 will co-exist for some period of time, eventually all internet users and companies will need to transition to ipv6. while akamai has been developing plans for the transition to ipv6 and ensuring that we are prepared to meet our customers’ needs for both ipv4- and ipv6-based technology, there is no guarantee that such plans will be effective. if we are unable to obtain the ipv4 addresses we need, on financial terms acceptable to us or at all, before we or other entities that rely on the internet can transition to ipv6, our current and future operations could be materially harmed. if there is not a timely and successful transition to ipv6 by internet users generally, the internet could function less effectively which could damage numerous businesses, the economy generally and the prospects for future growth of the internet as a medium for transacting business. this could, in turn, be harmful to our financial condition and results of operation. as part of our business strategy, we have entered into and may enter into or seek to enter into business combinations, acquisitions, and other strategic relationships that may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and divert management attention. we have completed numerous acquisitions in recent years. if attractive acquisition opportunities arise in the future, we may seek to enter into additional business combinations or purchases. acquisitions and combinations are accompanied by a number of risks, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the potential distraction of management, expenses related to the acquisition and potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. any inability to integrate completed acquisitions or combinations in an efficient and timely manner could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, we may not be able to recognize any expected synergies or benefits in connection with a future acquisition or combination. if we are not successful in completing acquisitions or combinations that we may pursue in the future, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without a successful result. in addition, future acquisitions could require use of substantial portions of our available cash or result in dilutive issuances of securities. we may also enter into other types of strategic relationships that involve technology sharing or close cooperation with other companies. such relationships can be distracting to management and require the investment of significant amounts of money without a guaranteed return on investment or realization of significant, or any, benefits. our stock price has been volatile. the market price of our common stock has been volatile. trading prices may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including the following:     •   quarterly variations in operating results and announcements of innovations;     •   introduction of new products, services and strategic developments by us or our competitors;     •   business combinations and investments by us or our competitors;     •   variations in our revenue, expenses or profitability;     •   market speculation about whether we are a takeover target;     15 table of contents   •   changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;     •   failure to meet the expectations of public market analysts;     •   disruptions to our services or unauthorized access to our information technology systems;     •   unfavorable media coverage;     •   macro-economic factors;     •   repurchases of shares of our common stock;     •   our customers’ inability to access equity and credit markets;     •   performance by other companies in our industry; and     •   geopolitical conditions such as acts of terrorism or military conflicts. any of these events may cause the price of our common stock to fall. in addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for technology companies in particular, have experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. if the accounting estimates we make, and the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may be adversely affected. our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. the preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments about, among other things, taxes, revenue recognition, stock-based compensation costs, capitalization of internal-use software, investments, contingent obligations, allowance for doubtful accounts, intangible assets and restructuring charges. these estimates and judgments affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made. if our estimates or the assumptions underlying them are not correct, actual results may differ materially from our estimates and we may need to, among other things, accrue additional charges that could adversely affect our results of operations, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. future changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results. new accounting pronouncements and interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. these new accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our reported financial results. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results in u.s. dollar terms. a portion of our revenues arises from international operations. revenues generated and expenses incurred by our international subsidiaries are often denominated in the currencies of the local countries. as a result, our consolidated u.s. dollar financial statements are subject to fluctuations due to changes in exchange rates as the financial results of our international subsidiaries are translated from local currencies into u.s. dollars. in addition, our financial results are subject to changes in exchange rates that impact the settlement of transactions in non-local currencies. a substantial portion of our marketable securities are invested in auction rate securities. continued failures in the auctions for these securities may affect our liquidity. we held $150.8 million in par value of auction rate securities, or ars, as of december 31, 2010, which represented approximately 15% of our total short- and long-term marketable securities of $1,012 million as of   16 table of contents that date. ars are securities that are structured to allow for short-term interest rate resets but with contractual maturities that can be well in excess of ten years. at the end of each reset period, which typically occurs every seven to 35 days, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. beginning in february 2008, the majority of ars in the marketplace, including the ars that we hold in our portfolio, failed auction due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. such failures resulted in the interest rate on these ars resetting to predetermined rates in accordance with the underlying loan agreement, which might be lower than the current market rate of interest. in the event we need to liquidate our investments in these types of securities including for purposes of funding our operations, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments in which demand equals or exceeds the supply of such securities being offered, the issuer redeems the outstanding securities, a buyer is found outside the auction process, the securities mature or there is a default requiring immediate payment from the issuer. these alternative liquidation measures may require that we sell our ars at a substantial discount to par value. in the future, should the ars we hold be subject to prolonged auction failures and we determine that the decline in value of ars is other-than-temporary, we would recognize a loss in our consolidated statement of operations, which could be material. in addition, any future failed auctions may adversely impact the liquidity of our investments and our ability to fund our operations. furthermore, if one or more of the issuers of the ars held in our portfolio are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of these investments through additional impairment charges, which could be material. we may also incur significant legal and related expenses in connection with efforts to require one or more of the investment advisors that sold us ars to provide liquidity for these securities. there can be no assurance that any such efforts would be successful. if we are unable to retain our key employees and hire qualified sales and technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key technology, sales, marketing and support personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships. there is significant competition for talented individuals in the regions in which our primary offices are located. this affects both our ability to retain key employees and hire new ones. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. we compensate our officers and employees in part through equity incentives, including stock options. some of these stock options held by our officers and employees have exercise prices in excess of the current market price of our common stock, which has diminished the retentive value of such options. the loss of the services of any of our key employees could hinder or delay the implementation of our business model and the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our services. we may need to defend against patent or copyright infringement claims, which would cause us to incur substantial costs. other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may hold or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our services or develop new services, which could make it more difficult for us to increase revenues and improve or maintain profitability. companies holding internet-related patents or other intellectual property rights are increasingly bringing suits alleging infringement of such rights against both technology providers and customers that use such technology. we have agreed to indemnify our customers if our services infringe specified intellectual property rights; therefore, we could become involved in litigation brought against customers if our services and technology are implicated. any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, brought against us or pursuant to which we indemnify our customers could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and require us to do one or more of the following:     •   cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;     •   pay substantial damages and incur significant litigation expenses;   17 table of contents   •   obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; or     •   redesign products or services. if we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. in the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to obtain a license to the infringed technology, our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties. we rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. these legal protections afford only limited protection. we have previously brought lawsuits against entities that we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights but have not always prevailed. such lawsuits can be expensive and require a significant amount of attention of our management and technical personnel, and the outcomes are unpredictable. developments and changes in patent law, such as changes in interpretations of the joint infringement standard, could also restrict how we enforce certain patents we hold. monitoring unauthorized use of our services is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states. although we have licensed from other parties proprietary technology covered by patents, we cannot be certain that any such patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. such licenses may also be non-exclusive, meaning our competition may also be able to access such technology. furthermore, we cannot be certain that any pending or future patent applications will be granted, that any future patent will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that rights granted under any patent that may be issued will provide competitive advantages to us. if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, the value of our intellectual property assets may be reduced. if our license agreement with mit terminates, our business could be adversely affected. we have licensed from mit technology that is covered by various patents, patent applications and copyrights relating to internet content delivery technology. some of our core technology is based in part on the technology covered by these patents, patent applications and copyrights. our license is effective for the life of the patents and patent applications; however, under limited circumstances, such as a cessation of our operations due to our insolvency or our material breach of the terms of the license agreement, mit has the right to terminate our license. a termination of our license agreement with mit could have a material adverse effect on our business. if our ability to deliver media files in popular proprietary content formats were to become restricted or cost-prohibitive, demand for our content delivery services could decline, we could lose customers and our financial results could suffer. our business depends on our ability to deliver media content in all major formats. if our legal right or technical ability to store and deliver content in one or more popular proprietary content formats, such as adobe® flash® or windows® media®, was limited, our ability to serve our customers in these formats would be impaired and the demand for our content delivery services would decline by customers using these formats. owners of propriety content formats may be able to block, restrict or impose fees or other costs on our use of such formats, which could lead to additional expenses for us and for our customers, or which could prevent our delivery of this type of content altogether. such interference could result in a loss of existing customers, increased costs and impairment of our ability to attract new customers, which would harm our revenue, operating results and growth. we face risks associated with international operations that could harm our business. we have operations in numerous foreign countries and may continue to expand our sales and support organizations internationally. such expansion could require us to make significant expenditures. we are   18 table of contents increasingly subject to a number of risks associated with international business activities that may increase our costs, lengthen our sales cycle and require significant management attention. these risks include:     •   increased expenses associated with marketing services in foreign countries;     •   currency exchange rate fluctuations and limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds;     •   unexpected changes in regulatory requirements resulting in unanticipated costs and delays;     •   interpretations of laws or regulations that would subject us to regulatory supervision or, in the alternative, require us to exit a country, which could have a negative impact on the quality of our services or our results of operations;     •   uncertainty regarding liability for content or services;     •   adjusting to different employee/employer relationships and different regulations governing such relationships;     •   difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language and cultural differences;     •   longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; and     •   potentially adverse tax consequences. if we are required to seek additional funding, such funding may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if we seek to acquire significant businesses or technologies or require more cash to fund our future plans, we may need to obtain funding from outside sources. the current economic environment makes it difficult for companies to obtain financing, particularly raising debt financing or implementing credit facilities. therefore, we may not be able to raise additional capital, which could limit future actions we may want to take. even if we were to find outside funding sources, we might be required to issue securities with greater rights than the securities we have outstanding today or issue debt that places restrictions on our future activities. we might also be required to take other actions that could lessen the value of our common stock, including borrowing money on terms that are not favorable to us. changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business. federal, state, foreign and international laws and regulations may govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data that we receive from our customers, visitors to their websites and others. in addition, we have and post on our website our own privacy policy concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any privacy-related laws, government regulations or directives, or industry self-regulatory principles could result in damage to our reputation or proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. a large number of legislative proposals pending before the u.s. congress, various state legislative bodies and foreign governments concern data privacy and retention issues related to our business, particularly the advertising-related services we have begun to offer. it is not possible to predict whether, when, or the extent to which such legislation may be adopted. in addition, the interpretation and application of user data protection laws are currently unsettled. these laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and inconsistently with our current data protection policies and practices. complying with these varying international requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.   19 table of contents internet-related and other laws could adversely affect our business. laws and regulations that apply to communications and commerce over the internet are becoming more prevalent. in particular, the growth and development of the market for online commerce has prompted calls for more stringent tax, consumer protection, anti-discrimination and privacy laws, both in the united states and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online or providing internet-related services such as ours. the adoption of any of these measures could negatively affect both our business directly as well as the businesses of our customers, which could reduce their demand for our services. in addition, domestic and international government attempts to regulate the operation of the internet could negatively impact our business. local tax laws that might apply to our servers, which are located in many different jurisdictions, could require us to pay additional taxes in those jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our continued profitability. we have recorded certain tax reserves to address potential exposures involving our sales and use and franchise tax positions. these potential tax liabilities result from the varying application of statutes, rules, regulations and interpretations by different jurisdictions. our reserves, however, may not be adequate to cover our total actual liability. as a government contractor, we are also subject to numerous laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable requirements, then we could face penalties, contract terminations and damage to our reputation. we also may be required to devote substantial resources to the development and improvement of procedures to ensure compliance with applicable regulations. global climate change could adversely impact our business. recent scientific studies and other news reports suggest the possibility of global climate change. in response, governments may adopt new regulations affecting the use of fossil fuels or requiring the use of alternative fuel sources. in addition, our customers may require us to take steps to demonstrate that we are taking ecologically responsible measures in operating our business. our deployed network of tens of thousands of servers consumes significant energy resources, including those generated by the burning of fossil fuels. it is possible that future regulatory or legislative initiatives or customer demands could affect the costs of operating our network of servers and our other operations. such costs and any expenses we incur to make our network more efficient could make us less profitable in future periods. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other requirements imposed on us could lead to fines, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. provisions of our charter documents, our stockholder rights plan and delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws and delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. these provisions include:     •   a classified board structure so that only approximately one-third of our board of directors is up for re-election in any one year;     •   our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;     •   stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; such provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and   20 table of contents   •   our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock; the ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. in addition, our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan the provisions of which could make it more difficult for a potential acquirer of akamai to consummate an acquisition transaction without the approval of our board of directors. further, as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. a class action lawsuit has been filed against us and an adverse resolution of such action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in the period in which the lawsuit is resolved. we are named as a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit filed in 2001 alleging that the underwriters of our initial public offering received undisclosed compensation in connection with our initial public offering of common stock in violation of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. we are also a nominal defendant in a related lawsuit alleging violations of section 16 of the securities exchange of 1934, as amended, by such underwriters and our officers and directors. see item 3 of this annual report on form 10-k for more information. any conclusion of these matters in a manner adverse to us could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations.   item 1b. unresolved