item 1a. risk factors the following are certain of the important factors that could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this annual report on form 10-k or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. we face intense competition, the consequences of which could adversely affect our business. we compete in markets that are intensely competitive and rapidly changing. the competitive landscape is varied and presents numerous different challenges including: • current and potential competitors may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, broader customer relationships and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. • other competitors may attract customers by offering less-sophisticated versions of services than we provide at lower prices than those we charge. • nimbler companies may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, resulting in superior offerings. • some current or potential competitors may bundle their offerings with other services, software or hardware in a manner that may discourage enterprises from purchasing any service we offer. • potential customers may decide to purchase or develop their own hardware, software and other technology solutions rather than rely on an external provider like akamai. as a result, our competitors include hardware manufacturers, software companies and other entities that offer internet-related solutions that are not service-based. ultimately, increased competition of all types could result in price and revenue reductions, lower gross margins, loss of customers and loss of market share, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to continue to innovate and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results may suffer. the market for our services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and new product and service introductions. our ability to provide new and innovative solutions to address the evolving ways enterprises use the internet is important to our future growth and profitability. if we fail to do so, our operating results will likely be significantly harmed. if other companies develop technological or business model innovations in the markets we seek to address that are, or are perceived to be, equivalent or superior to our services, then our revenue and profitability could also suffer. in addition, our customers’ business models may change in ways that we do not anticipate, and the failure to address these changes could reduce or eliminate our customers’ needs for our services. the process of developing new technologies is complex and uncertain; we must commit significant resources to developing new services or enhancements to our existing services before knowing whether our investments will result in services the market will accept. furthermore, we may not execute successfully our technology initiatives because of errors in planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, misunderstandings about market demand or a lack of appropriate resources. failure to increase our revenues and keep our expenses consistent with revenues could prevent us from maintaining profitability at recent levels or at all. our revenue growth rate may decline in future periods as a result of a number of factors including increasing competition, pricing pressure, the inevitable decline in growth rates as our revenues increase to higher levels and macroeconomic factors affecting certain aspects of our business. we also believe our gross margins may decrease because we have large fixed expenses 8 table of contents and expect to continue to incur significant bandwidth, co-location and other expenses, including increased depreciation on network equipment purchased in recent years. as a result, we may not be able to continue to maintain our current level of profitability in 2012 or on a quarterly or annual basis thereafter. there are numerous factors that could, alone or in combination with other factors, impede our ability to increase revenues and/or moderate expenses, including: • continuing market pressure to decrease our prices, particularly in our media business; • the impact of lower pricing and other terms in renewal agreements we enter into with existing customers; • failure to experience traffic growth and increase sales of our core services and advanced features to offset price declines; • significant increases in co-location and bandwidth costs, head count or other operating expenses; • increased competition; • inability to increase sales to new and existing customers faster than the rate of loss of existing customers and revenues; and • failure of a significant number of customers to pay our fees on a timely basis or at all or failure to continue to purchase our services in accordance with their contractual commitments. we may be unable to replace lost revenues due to customer cancellations or renewals at lower rates. our customers have no obligation to renew their agreements for our services after the expiration of their existing terms, which are typically 12 to 24 months. some may elect not to renew and others may renew at lower prices, lower committed traffic levels or for shorter contract lengths. we cannot accurately predict renewal rates. our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customer dissatisfaction with our service, customers' ability to continue their operations and spending levels and deteriorating general economic conditions. it is key to our profitability that we offset lost committed recurring revenue due to customer cancellations, terminations, price reductions or other less favorable terms by adding new customers and increasing the number of services, features and functionalities that our existing customers purchase. if we are unable to do so, our revenue will decline and our business will suffer. we may be unable to develop robust strategic relationships with third parties; such failure could significantly limit our long-term growth. our future success will likely require us to maintain and increase the number and depth of our relationships with resellers, systems integrators and other strategic partners. the need to develop such relationship can be particularly acute in areas outside of the united states. we have not always been successful at developing these relationships due to the complexity of our services, our historical reliance on an internal sales force, a past lack of strategic focus on such arrangements and other factors. recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in the use of our technology and services requires significant time and resources. in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to expand and improve our processes and procedures that support our channel, including our investment in systems and training, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and difficult to manage. the time and expense required for sales and marketing organizations of our channel partners to become familiar with our offerings, including our new services developments, may make it more difficult to introduce those products to enterprises. our failure to maintain and increase the number of relationships with channel partners could significantly impede our revenue growth prospects in the short and long term. our failure to manage expected growth, diversification and changes to our business could harm us. our future operating results will depend on our ability to manage our operations. in the past, we have restructured aspects of our operations and made other adjustments to our organization in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues and other internal and external considerations, and we may take similar actions in the future. such actions can result in lack of focus and reduced productivity. as a result of the diversification of our business, personnel growth, acquisitions and international expansion in recent years, many of our employees are now based outside of our cambridge, massachusetts, headquarters. however, most management decisions are made by a relatively small group of individuals based primarily at our headquarters. if we are unable to appropriately increase management depth and decentralize our decision making at rates commensurate with our actual or desired growth rates, we may not be able to achieve our financial or operational goals. in addition, if we are unable to effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of employees, our business may be adversely affected. as our business evolves, we must also expand and adapt our operational infrastructure. our business relies on our data systems, billing systems, and other operational and financial reporting and control systems. all of these systems have become increasingly complex in the recent past due to the diversification and complexity of our business, acquisitions of new businesses with different 9 table of contents systems and increased regulation over controls and procedures. to manage our technical support infrastructure effectively, we will need to continue to upgrade and improve our data systems, billing systems and other operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. these upgrades and improvements will require a dedication of resources and in some cases are likely to be complex. if we are unable to adapt our systems and organization in a timely and cost-effective manner to accommodate changing circumstances, our business may be adversely affected. because our services are complex and are deployed in complex environments, they may have errors or defects that could seriously harm our business. our services are highly complex and are designed to be deployed in and across numerous large and complex networks that we do not control. from time to time, we have needed to correct errors and defects in our software. in the future, there may be additional errors and defects in our software that may adversely affect our services. we may not have in place adequate quality assurance procedures to ensure that we detect errors in our software in a timely manner. if we are unable to efficiently and cost-effectively fix errors or other problems that may be identified, or if there are unidentified errors that allow persons to improperly access our services, we could experience loss of revenues and market share, damage to our reputation, increased expenses and legal actions by our customers. if we elect to move into new areas that involve handling personally identifiable information or other important assets entrusted to us by our customers, the potential risks we face and magnitude of losses could increase. any unplanned interruption in the functioning of our network or services or attacks on our internal information technology systems could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenues and harm our business, financial results and reputation. our business is dependent on providing our customers with fast, efficient and reliable distribution of applications and content over the internet. for our core services, we currently provide a standard guarantee that our networks will deliver internet content 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. if we do not meet this standard, affected customers will be entitled to credits. our network or services could be disrupted by numerous events, including natural disasters, unauthorized access to our servers, failure or refusal of our third-party network providers to provide the necessary capacity, power losses and intentional disruptions of our services, such as disruptions caused by software viruses or attacks by unauthorized users. cybersecurity attacks and other security breaches could expose us to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. there have been, and in the future may be, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems in order to steal information about our technology, financial data or other information or take other actions that would be damaging to us. such attacks may be pursued through electronic means or through damage or destruction of, or other denial of access to, a facility where our servers are housed. although we have taken steps to prevent such disruptions and security breaches, there can be no assurance that attacks by unauthorized users will not be attempted in the future, that our security measures will be effective, that we will quickly detect an attack or that a successful attack would not be damaging. any widespread interruption of the functioning of our network or services would reduce our revenues and could harm our business, financial results and reputation. any insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to cover all or a significant portion of the losses we could suffer from a successful attack. any successful breach of the security of our information systems could lead to the unauthorized release of valuable confidential information, including trade secrets, material nonpublic information about our financial condition and sensitive data that others could use to compete against us. such events could likely harm our business and reputation. in addition, we offer services designed to address the internet security needs of our customers. any failure of those solutions to operate effectively or to provide benefits promised by us could reduce our revenues and harm or business and reputation. we may have insufficient transmission and co-location space, which could result in interruptions in our services and loss of revenues. our operations are dependent in part upon transmission capacity provided by third-party telecommunications network providers and access to co-location facilities to house our servers. we believe that, absent extraordinary circumstances, we have access to adequate capacity to provide our services; however, there can be no assurance that we are adequately prepared for unexpected increases in bandwidth demands by our customers. the bandwidth we have contracted to purchase may become unavailable for a variety of reasons, including payment disputes or network providers going out of business. any failure of these network providers to provide the capacity we require, due to financial or other reasons, may result in a reduction in, or interruption of, service to our customers and ultimately loss of those customers. in recent years, it has become increasingly expensive to house our servers at network facilities. we expect this trend to continue. these increased expenses have made, and will make, it more costly for us to expand our operations and more difficult for us to maintain or improve our gross margins. the potential exhaustion of the supply of unallocated ipv4 addresses and the inability of akamai and other internet users to successfully transition to ipv6 could harm our operations and the functioning of the internet as a whole. an internet protocol address, or ip address, is a numerical label that is assigned to any device connecting to the internet. today, the functioning of the internet is dependent on the use of internet protocol version 4, or ipv4, the fourth version of the 10 table of contents internet protocol, which uses 32-bit addresses. we currently rely on the acquisition of ip addresses for the functioning and expansion of our network and expect such reliance to continue in the future. there are, however, only a finite number of ipv4 addresses. it is possible that the number of unallocated ipv4 addresses may be exhausted within one to two years. internet protocol version 6, or ipv6, uses 128-bit addresses and has been designed to succeed ipv4 and alleviate the expected exhaustion of unallocated addresses under that version. while ipv4 and ipv6 will co-exist for some period of time, eventually all internet users and companies will need to transition to ipv6. while akamai has been developing plans for the transition to ipv6 and ensuring that we are prepared to meet our needs and those of our customers for both ipv4- and ipv6-based technology, there is no guarantee that such plans will be effective. if we are unable to obtain the ipv4 addresses we need, on financial terms acceptable to us or at all, before we or other entities that rely on the internet can transition to ipv6, our current and future operations could be materially harmed. if there is not a timely and successful transition to ipv6 by internet users generally, the internet could function less effectively, which could damage numerous businesses, the economy generally and the prospects for future growth of the internet as a medium for transacting business. this could, in turn, be harmful to our financial condition and results of operation. as part of our business strategy, we have entered, and may seek to enter, into business combinations, acquisitions, and other strategic relationships that may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and divert management attention. we have completed numerous acquisitions in recent years. if attractive acquisition opportunities arise in the future, we may seek to enter into additional business combinations or purchases. we may also enter into other types of strategic relationships that involve technology sharing or close cooperation with other companies. acquisitions and other complex transactions are accompanied by a number of risks, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the potential distraction of management, expenses related to the transactions and potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. any inability to integrate completed acquisitions or combinations in an efficient and timely manner could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, we may not be able to recognize any expected synergies or benefits in connection with a future acquisition or combination. in december 2011, we announced that we had reached an agreement to purchase cotendo inc. if we are not successful in completing the acquisition of cotendo or other acquisitions or other strategic transactions that we may pursue in the future, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without a successful result. in addition, future acquisitions could require use of substantial portions of our available cash or result in dilutive issuances of securities. technology sharing or other strategic relationships we enter into may give rise to disputes over intellectual property ownership, operational responsibilities and other significant matters. such disputes may be expensive and time-consuming to resolve. our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile. the market price of our common stock has been volatile. trading prices may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including the following: • quarterly variations in operating results; • introduction of new products, services and strategic developments by us or our competitors; • market speculation about whether we are a takeover target; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • failure to meet the expectations of public market analysts; • macro-economic factors; • repurchases of shares of our common stock; • performance by other companies in our industry; and • geopolitical conditions such as acts of terrorism or military conflicts. any of these events may cause the price of our common stock to fall. in addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for technology companies in particular, have experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. if we are unable to retain our key employees and hire qualified sales and technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key technology, sales, marketing and support personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships. there is significant competition for talented individuals in the regions in which our primary offices are located. this affects both our ability to retain key employees and hire new ones. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. we compensate 11 table of contents our officers and employees in part through equity incentives, including stock options. some of these stock options held by our officers and employees have exercise prices in excess of the current market price of our common stock, which has diminished the retentive value of such options. the loss of the services of any of our key employees could hinder or delay the implementation of our business model and the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our services. we may need to defend against patent or copyright infringement claims, which would cause us to incur substantial costs. other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may hold or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our services or develop new services, which could make it more difficult for us to increase revenues and improve or maintain profitability. companies holding internet-related patents or other intellectual property rights are increasingly bringing suits alleging infringement of such rights against both technology providers and customers that use such technology. any such action naming akamai could be costly to defend or lead to an expensive settlement or judgment against us. we have agreed to indemnify our customers if our services infringe specified intellectual property rights; therefore, we could become involved in litigation brought against customers if our services and technology are implicated. any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, brought against us or pursuant to which we indemnify our customers could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and require us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • pay substantial damages and incur significant litigation expenses; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; or • redesign products or services. if we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. in the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to obtain a license to the infringed technology, our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties. we rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. these legal protections afford only limited protection. we have previously brought lawsuits against entities that we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights but have not always prevailed. such lawsuits can be expensive and require a significant amount of attention of our management and technical personnel, and the outcomes are unpredictable. developments and changes in patent law, such as changes in interpretations of the joint infringement standard, could also restrict how we enforce certain patents we hold. monitoring unauthorized use of our services is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states. although we have licensed from other parties proprietary technology covered by patents, we cannot be certain that any such patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. such licenses may also be non-exclusive, meaning our competition may also be able to access such technology. furthermore, we cannot be certain that any pending or future patent applications will be granted, that any future patent will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that rights granted under any patent that may be issued will provide competitive advantages to us. if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, the value of our intellectual property assets may be reduced. if our license agreement with mit terminates, our business could be adversely affected. we have licensed from mit technology that is covered by various patents, patent applications and copyrights relating to internet content delivery technology. some of our core technology is based in part on the technology covered by these patents, patent applications and copyrights. our license is effective for the life of the patents and patent applications; however, under limited circumstances, such as a cessation of our operations due to our insolvency or our material breach of the terms of the license agreement, mit has the right to terminate our license. a termination of our license agreement with mit could have a material adverse effect on our business. we rely on certain “open-source” software the use of which could result in our having to distribute our proprietary software, including our source code, to third parties on unfavorable terms which could materially affect our business. certain of our service offerings use software that is subject to open-source licenses. open-source code is software that is freely accessible, usable and modifiable. certain open-source code is governed by license agreements, the terms of which could require users of such open-source code to make any derivative works of such open-source code available to others on unfavorable terms or at no cost. because we use open-source code, we may be required to take remedial action in order to protect our proprietary software. such action could include replacing certain source code used in our software, discontinuing certain of our products or 12 table of contents taking other actions that could divert resources away from our development efforts. in addition, the terms relating to disclosure of derivative works in many open-source licenses are unclear. we periodically review our compliance with the open-source licenses we use and do not believe we will be required to make our proprietary software freely available. however, if a court interprets one or more such open-source licenses in a manner that is unfavorable to us, we could be required to make certain of our key software available at no cost. if our ability to deliver media files in popular proprietary content formats were to become restricted or cost-prohibitive, demand for our content delivery services could decline, we could lose customers and our financial results could suffer. significant portions of our business depend on our ability to deliver media content in all major formats. if our legal right or technical ability to store and deliver content in one or more popular proprietary content formats, such as adobe® flash® or windows® media®, were to become limited, our ability to serve our customers in these formats would be impaired and the demand for our content delivery services would decline by customers using these formats. owners of propriety content formats may be able to block, restrict or impose fees or other costs on our use of such formats, which could lead to additional expenses for us and for our customers, or which could prevent our delivery of this type of content altogether. such interference could result in a loss of existing customers, increased costs and impairment of our ability to attract new customers, which would harm our revenue, operating results and growth. if the accounting estimates we make, and the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may be adversely affected. our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. the preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments about, among other things, taxes, revenue recognition, stock-based compensation costs, capitalization of internal-use software, investments, contingent obligations, allowance for doubtful accounts, intangible assets and restructuring charges. these estimates and judgments affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made. if our estimates or the assumptions underlying them are not correct, actual results may differ materially from our estimates and we may need to, among other things, accrue additional charges that could adversely affect our results of operations, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. in addition, new accounting pronouncements and interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future that could adversely affect our reported financial results. we may have exposure to greater-than-anticipated tax liabilities. our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items such as equity-related compensation.  we have recorded certain tax reserves to address potential exposures involving our sales and use and franchise tax positions. these potential tax liabilities result from the varying application of statutes, rules, regulations and interpretations by different jurisdictions. our reserves, however, may not be adequate to cover our total actual liability. although we believe our estimates and reserves are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. in addition, we have historically derived benefits from the availability of certain research and development tax credits under federal and state tax regulations. if the availability of such credits is not extended by the applicable taxing authorities, our tax liability would increase. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. as a result, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. we have complied with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 by assessing, strengthening and testing our system of internal controls. even though we concluded our system of internal controls was effective as of december 31, 2011, we need to continue to maintain our processes and systems and adapt them to changes as our business evolves and we rearrange management responsibilities and reorganize our business accordingly. this continuous process of maintaining and adapting our internal controls and complying with section 404 is expensive and time-consuming, and requires significant management attention. we cannot be certain that our internal control measures will continue to provide adequate control over our financial processes and reporting and ensure compliance with section 404. furthermore, as our business changes and if we expand through acquisitions of other companies, our internal controls may become more complex and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls overall remain effective. failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. if we or our independent 13 table of contents registered public accounting firm identify material weaknesses, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remediated, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. general global market and economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our operating performance and results of operations. our business has been and could continue to be affected by general global economic and market conditions. weakness in the united states and/or worldwide economy has had and could continue to have a negative effect on our operating results, including decreases in revenues and operating cash flows. to the extent customers are unable to profitably monetize the content we deliver on their behalf, they may reduce or eliminate the traffic we deliver for them. such reductions in traffic would lead to a reduction in our revenues. additionally, in a down-cycle economic environment, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure, customer loss, slow down in commerce over the internet and corresponding decrease in traffic delivered over our network and failures by customers to pay amounts owed to us on a timely basis or at all. suppliers on which we rely for servers, bandwidth, co-location and other services could also be negatively impacted by economic conditions that, in turn, could have a negative impact on our operations or expenses. there can be no assurance, therefore, that current economic conditions or worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession will not have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results in u.s. dollar terms. a portion of our revenues is derived from international operations. revenues generated and expenses incurred by our international subsidiaries are often denominated in the currencies of the local countries. as a result, our consolidated u.s. dollar financial statements are subject to fluctuations due to changes in exchange rates as the financial results of our international subsidiaries are translated from local currencies into u.s. dollars. in addition, our financial results are subject to changes in exchange rates that impact the settlement of transactions in non-local currencies. while we have implemented a foreign currency hedging program, there is no guarantee that such program will be fully effective. we face risks associated with international operations that could harm our business. we have operations in numerous foreign countries and may continue to expand our sales and support organizations internationally. such expansion could require us to make significant expenditures, which could harm our profitability. we are increasingly subject to a number of risks associated with international business activities that may increase our costs, lengthen our sales cycle and require significant management attention. these risks include: • currency exchange rate fluctuations and limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements resulting in unanticipated costs and delays; • interpretations of laws or regulations that would subject us to regulatory supervision or, in the alternative, require us to exit a country, which could have a negative impact on the quality of our services or our results of operations; • uncertainty regarding liability for content or services; • adjusting to different employee/employer relationships and different regulations governing such relationships; • corporate and personal liability for violations of local laws and regulations; • difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language and cultural differences; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business. federal, state, foreign and international laws and regulations may govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data that we receive from our customers, visitors to their websites and others. in addition, we have a publicly-available privacy policy concerning collection, use and disclosure of user data. any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any privacy-related laws, government regulations or directives, or industry self-regulatory principles could result in damage to our reputation or proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. a large number of legislative proposals pending before the u.s. congress, various state legislative bodies and foreign governments concern data privacy and retention issues related to our business, particularly the advertising-related services we offer. it is not possible to predict whether, when, or the extent to which such legislation may be adopted. in addition, the interpretation and application of user data protection laws are currently unsettled. these laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and inconsistently with our current data protection policies and practices. complying with potentially varying international requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a 14 table of contents manner adverse to our business. internet-related and other laws could adversely affect our business. laws and regulations that apply to communications and commerce over the internet are becoming more prevalent. in particular, the growth and development of the market for online commerce has prompted calls for more stringent copyright protection, tax, consumer protection, anti-discrimination and privacy laws, both in the united states and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online or providing internet-related services such as ours. the adoption of any of these measures could negatively affect both our business directly as well as the businesses of our customers, which could reduce their demand for our services. in addition, domestic and international government attempts to regulate the operation of the internet could negatively impact our business. global climate change regulations could adversely impact our business. recent scientific studies and other news reports suggest the possibility of global climate change. in response, governments may adopt new regulations affecting the use of fossil fuels or requiring the use of alternative fuel sources. in addition, our customers may require us to take steps to demonstrate that we are taking ecologically responsible measures in operating our business. our deployed network of tens of thousands of servers consumes significant energy resources, including those generated by the burning of fossil fuels. it is possible that future regulatory or legislative initiatives or customer demands could affect the costs of operating our network of servers and our other operations. such costs and any expenses we incur to make our network more efficient could make us less profitable in future periods. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other requirements imposed on us could lead to fines, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. our sales to government clients subject us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. most of our government contracts are subject to legislative approval of appropriations to fund the expenditures under these contracts. these factors may join to limit the revenues we derive from government contracts in the future. additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. provisions of our charter documents, our stockholder rights plan and delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws and delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. these provisions include: • a classified board structure so that only approximately one-third of our board of directors is up for re-election in any one year; • our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; such provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and • our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock; the ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. in addition, our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan the provisions of which could make it more difficult for a potential acquirer of akamai to consummate an acquisition transaction without the approval of our board of directors. further, as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. 15 table of contents item 1b. unresolved