item 1a. risk factors we face a variety of risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. the risks described below are not the only ones we face and should be considered in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the sec, including our subsequent reports on forms 10-q and 8-k. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. if any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed.   15 table of contents risks relating to our industry competition the telecommunications industry in alaska is competitive and will become even more competitive when verizon begins to provide retail wireless service which is expected to occur in 2014. the telecommunications industry in alaska is competitive and will become even more competitive when verizon enters the retail wireless market. new competitors make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, which will result in lower revenue, cash flow from operating activities and free cash flow. given our limited market size, the impact from increased competition is expected to be material, and will impact our future service revenue, cash flow from operating activities and free cash flow. our service revenue is generated from monthly charges to our retail customers. should those customers elect to move their wireless service to verizon, our service revenue will decrease. our principal facilities based competitor for voice and broadband services is gci, who is also the dominant cable television provider in alaska. in consumer markets, gci leverages its dominant position in the consumer and business and wholesale markets in several ways. in the consumer market gci bundles its cable services with voice, broadband and wireless services. we do not offer video service, and thus, are unable to offer competing bundles. in the business and wholesale market gci holds a dominant position through its extensive fiber optic, microwave and satellite based middle mile network as well as its undersea fiber cable network, where it owns and operates two of the four existing undersea fiber optic cables connecting alaska to the contiguous states. gci continues to expand its statewide reach, including through its terra southwest project which is funded 50% with a $44 million grant from the usda rural utilities service and, as structured, gives gci a substantial competitive advantage in the markets served by terra southwest. gci has indicated it intends to replicate this government subsidized model in other markets in alaska which will create monopoly type conditions in these markets. as part of its long history of operating in alaska, at&t has a somewhat limited terrestrial network in alaska where the focus on serving certain national customers. at&t’s primary focus in alaska is providing wireless services, where it is estimated to have over 50% market share. at&t has numerous competitive advantages in wireless including availability to handsets and a nationwide network for its customers. these strong competitive pressures from two large competitors, coupled with the entry of verizon into the alaska market, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, margins and financial condition. network migration to the awn network migration to the awn hspa/lte network has and could continue to impact the number of retail wireless customers prior to the formation of awn, acs served its customers with cdma/lte services. gci served its customers with hspa/lte services. awn has chosen to move to an hspa/lte network, which means our customers, over time, will need to move to hspa/lte handsets that work on the awn network. the characteristics of this network in terms of coverage, quality, and speeds varies from the existing cdma network, and we are experiencing customer loss from customers who see improved speeds from the hspa/lte network but poorer coverage associated with the awn network. technological advancements and changes in telecommunications standards if we do not adapt to rapid technological advancements and changes in telecommunications standards, our ability to compete could be strained, and as a result, we would lose customers.   16 table of contents our success will likely depend on our ability to adapt and fund the rapid technological changes in our industry. our failure to adopt a new technology or our choice of one technology over another may have an adverse effect on our ability to compete or meet the demands of our customers. technological changes could, among other things, reduce the barriers to entry facing our competitors providing local service in our service areas. the pace of technology change and our ability to deploy new technologies may be constrained by insufficient capital and/or the need to generate sufficient cash to make interest payments on our debt. new products and services may arise out of technological developments and our inability to keep pace with these developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. some of our competitors may have greater resources to respond to changing technology than we do. if we fail to adapt successfully to technological changes or fail to obtain access to new technologies, we could lose customers and be unable to attract new customers and/or sell new services to our existing customers. we may be unable to successfully deliver new products and services, and we may not generate anticipated revenues from such products or services. we will be required to maintain an on-going investment program to continuously upgrade our access network. we define the access network as the connection from the end user location – either a home or a business – to the first aggregation point in the network. the connection can be copper or fiber and the aggregation point is typically a central office or remote serving node. the access network determines the speeds we are able to deliver to our end customer. we may not be able to maintain the level of investment needed for long term competitiveness in offering broadband speeds to all segments of our market. our limited access to middle mile infrastructure limits our ability to compete in certain geographic and customer segments in alaska. we define middle mile as the connection between the first aggregation point into a local community and the interconnection point to the internet which connects this community to the outside world. these are typically high capacity connections and can span hundreds of miles in the case of alaska. it is unlikely that we will have the capital needed for middle mile investments, and gci controls significant elements of the middle mile network in alaska, and through its government funded programs is creating monopoly conditions in certain areas of the state. this limits our ability to compete in certain markets. wireless device access and cost per device limited device access and increasing cost per device related competition may present continuing challenges to the company. we have consistently been challenged to have comparable handset availability to the national wireless carriers, thus presenting a significant competitive disadvantage. this risk was partially mitigated in april 20, 2012, when the company began to offer the iphone to its customers, and also impacted by the awn transaction where awn assumed the responsibility of providing competitive handset selection to acs and gci. the company has experienced situations where awn has provided handset availability to gci but has not done so with acs, which impacts our ability to be competitive, and we are not experiencing improved handset selection under the awn structure. this risk of handset supply will continue to affect our ability to be competitive in the wireless market. risks relating to our debt substantial debt our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health, financing options and liquidity position. in 2012 we began to reduce the amount of our outstanding debt, but continue to have substantial debt. as of december 31, 2013, we had total debt of $456.3 million. while we have reduced our level of debt, our overall ebitda is also being re-set under the awn structure resulting in continued higher leverage ratios compared to other telecommunication providers who access the capital markets. this level of debt could have important consequences for the holders of our common stock. for example, our substantial debt and the related loan covenants could:     •   require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, and other general corporate purposes;   17 table of contents   •   limit our flexibility to plan, adjust or react to changing economic, market or industry conditions, reduce our ability to withstand competitive pressures and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;     •   place us at a competitive disadvantage to many of our competitors who are less leveraged than we are;     •   limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, including strategic acquisitions and other general corporate requirements or hinder us from obtaining such financing on terms favorable to us or at all; or     •   limit our ability to refinance our debt. the terms of our senior credit facility and the terms of our other debt allow us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. if new debt is added, the related risks described above would intensify. our substantial debt exposes us to adverse changes in interest rates. we entered into floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps to hedge our exposure to interest rate changes. in conjunction with the refinancing of our senior debt on october 21, 2010, we entered into floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps that fixed the interest rates on $385.0 million of notional term loan value at 6.47% for the period june 2012 through september 2015. under the terms of our senior credit facility effective november 1, 2012, the effective fixed rate increases to 6.72% for the period april 2013 through may 2013, to 6.97% for the period june 2013 through july 2013, and to 7.22% for the period august 2013 through september 2015. in conjunction with the amendment to our senior credit facility effective november 1, 2012 and the incremental $65.0 million principal payment on the term loan required by the senior credit facility in conjunction with the closing of the awn transaction, the company determined that its forward floating-to-fixed interest rate swap in the notional amount of $192.5 million no longer met the effectiveness criteria for hedge accounting treatment. accordingly, hedge accounting treatment was discontinued on this swap effective november 1, 2012, and future changes in its fair value will be recognized as interest expense. amounts recorded to accumulate other comprehensive loss from the date of the swap’s inception through october 31, 2012 will be amortized to interest expense over the period of the originally designated hedged variable rate interest payments. we are also subject to credit risk related to our counterparties on the swaps and the interest rate cap and to interest rate fluctuations on interest generated by our debt in excess of the notional term loans referenced above. for more specific information related to our exposure to changes in interest rates and our use of floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, please see “item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.” debt-related financial covenants financial covenants in our debt instruments limit our operating flexibility. our senior credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and adhere to other covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe such actions are in our best interest. substantially all of our assets (including those of our subsidiaries) have been pledged as collateral for our senior credit facility. these include restrictions on our ability to:     •   pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock; until our leverage ratio is at or below 3.5x ebitda;     •   redeem common stock;     •   issue certain preferred or redeemable capital stock;     •   incur additional debt;     •   create liens;     •   make certain types of investments, loans, advances or other forms of payments;     •   issue, sell or allow distributions on capital stock of specified subsidiaries;     •   prepay or defease specified debt;     •   enter into transactions with affiliates; or     •   merge, consolidate or sell our assets.   18 table of contents further, we are required to meet certain financial covenants, reported on a quarterly basis. our ability to meet these covenants is dependent, among other factors, on our achieving targeted results of operations and the payment of monthly distributions from awn. we may not be able to achieve these targets for a variety of reasons, some of which are beyond our control, such as changes to the high cost support program administered by the fcc. upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior credit facility to be immediately due and payable. such a default or acceleration may allow our other creditors to accelerate our other debt. if the lenders accelerate the payment of the debt under our senior credit facility, our assets may not be sufficient to repay our debts. debt service requirements we require a significant amount of cash to service our debt, fund our growth projects and meet other liquidity needs. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt, including amounts borrowed under our senior credit facility, due in 2016 and our 6.25% convertible notes due 2018 (“6.25% notes”), and to fund planned capital expenditures, including strategic acquisitions, if any, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations such that our currently anticipated growth in revenues and cash flow will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable the repayment of our debt, pay dividends or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, including the 6.25% notes, on or before maturity. we may not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if we are unable to refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, including:     •   sales of certain assets to meet our debt service requirements;     •   sales of equity; and     •   negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. if we are forced to pursue any of the above options our business and the value of our common stock could be adversely affected. we recently entered into an amendment to our senior credit facility which, among other things, requires us to increase the amount of fixed annual amortization of this facility and prohibits the payment of cash dividends on our common stock until such time our total leverage ratio is not more than 3.50 to 1.00. as of december 31, 2013, our total leverage ratio was 3.94 to 1.00. risks related to our business awn transaction and operating structure we rely on the operations of awn, over which we exercise limited control to generate a significant portion of our cash from operations, to set certain wholesale terms, and to provide acceptable wireless performance to our wireless customers. although, for the first four years of awn’s operations, the distributions we receive from awn are preferential to us, we rely on management of awn to generate sufficient fcf to pay those distributions. awn’s cash flows are affected by many factors, such as network quality, ongoing network rationalization, the number of retail customers served by gci and awn and other factors, most of which are beyond our control. for the period july 23, 2013 to december 31, 2013, our preferred distribution represents approximately 40.8% of awn’s fcf. awn’s free cash flow is significantly impacted by roaming revenues, which are 38.1% of awn’s revenues for the period ended december 31, 2013, and capital spending associated with awn’s build out of its statewide lte network. roaming revenue is generated through charges to other wireless providers whose customers traveled within our coverage areas. with the close of awn these arrangements and the related revenue were contributed to awn. this revenue is volatile because of a number of factors including seasonality, verizon’s entry into the alaska market, and awn’s ability to successfully renew expiring agreements and negotiate new ones. significant declines in roaming revenue may place pressure on awn’s ability to execute its business plan, provide competitive service, and pay its distribution to acs. we expect that capital spending at awn will be significant through 2014 and will moderate once the build out of the lte network is complete.   19 table of contents during the first four years following consummation of the awn transaction, acs is eligible to receive preferential cash distributions totaling up to $50 million in each of years one and two, and up to $45 million in each of years three and four. after year four, gci and acs will generally receive distributions proportional to their ownership interests. distributions payable to acs during the first four years are subject to a downward adjustment if there are certain decreases in acs’s average number of wireless subscribers during a year. in years in which acs fails to maintain required subscriber levels, its distributions in the following year will be reduced by $218.00 per average subscriber shortfall. the adjustments to acs distributions are capped at $21.8 million during the first four years. in the fourth year, gci will be required to pay acs up to $21.8 million to the extent that it has not maintained a certain subscriber level and acs has maintained its subscriber level. as of december 31, 2013, acs is below the required subscriber levels. should subscriber levels stay unchanged from these levels, and this continues throughout 2014, awn distributions to acs in 2015 will be reduced by approximately $2.5 million. awn establishes the wholesale wireless rates and support dollars to offset equipment subsidies incurred by its owners. while the relevant agreements give us influence on how these rates are established, should awn not set appropriate rates, our competitiveness may be impacted. finally, prior to awn’s formation, our management team had direct control over wireless service quality for the wireless network in alaska, as well as the roaming arrangements that drove our customers’ experience when traveling outside the state. those matters are now controlled by awn. while awn is required to provide the same quality of service and access to both of its owners, should awn not do so, we may be damaged. we have experienced situations where we believe gci customers have a different service level experience than acs and we are in discussions with gci to resolve these differences. access and high cost support revenue revenues from access charges will continue to decline and revenue from high cost loop support is subject to rule changes at the fcc we received approximately 16% and 17% of our operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, from access charges. the amount of revenue that we receive from these access charges is calculated in accordance with requirements set by the fcc and the rca. any change in these requirements may reduce our revenues and earnings. access charges have consistently decreased in past years and we expect this trend to continue due to declines in voice usage and migration to voip services which do not generate access revenue for us. furthermore, the fcc has actively reviewed new mechanisms for inter-carrier compensation that, in some cases, could eliminate access charges entirely. elimination of access charges would have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings. similarly, the rca has adopted regulations modifying intrastate access charges that may reduce our revenue. as discussed in “regulations” substantial changes are expected to be enacted by the federal communications commission (“fcc”) regarding our future high cost loop support funding and obligations thereunder. it is difficult to predict the positive or negative growth in this source of revenue streams in the future as well as the future obligations that we will be required to accept tied to this funding. regulations new governmental regulations may impose obligations on us to upgrade our existing technology or adopt new technology that may require additional capital and we may not be able to comply in a timely manner with these new regulations. our markets are heavily regulated. we cannot predict the extent to which the government will impose new unfunded mandates on us. such mandates have included those related to emergency location, providing access to hearing-impaired customers, law enforcement assistance and local number portability. each of these government mandates has imposed new requirements for capital that we could not have predicted with any precision. along with these obligations, the fcc has imposed deadlines for compliance with these mandates. we may not be able to provide services that comply with these or other   20 table of contents regulatory or other regulatory mandates. further, we cannot predict whether other mandates from the fcc or other regulatory authorities, will occur in the future or the demands they may place on our capital expenditures. for more information on our regulatory environment and the risks it presents to us, see “item 1, business – regulation”. there is a risk that the transformation order will materially impact our revenue. the transformation order establishes a new frame work for high cost loop support that will ultimately phase out existing hcls mechanisms that today provide support to carriers, like us, that serve high-cost areas. though the future hcls rules remain unclear, we do not expect them to be as favorable to the company as the existing rules and we expect future hcls revenue will decrease and/or the capital we will spend to under these programs will increase significantly. we recognized $18.8 million and $20.2 million in hcls revenues to support our wireline operations in high cost areas in the twelve months ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the order eliminates the “identical support” rule that permits competitive carriers, such as acsw and our wireless competitors, to apply for funding based on the support received by the incumbent carrier. the uncertainty in the implementation of the transformation order and the shape of follow-on fcc rule making and model development efforts prevents us from accurately measuring the amount of future hcls revenue decreases, the amount of any new support the company will qualify to receive, or the financial obligations required to achieve that qualification. in addition, the fcc has imposed strict new compliance requirements governing enrollment of low-income subscribers in the fcc’s lifeline program, which provides carriers like us with usf support to reduce the cost of wireline and wireless services to low-income consumers. for the twelve months ended december 31, 2013, we recognized wireline and wireless lifeline revenue of $4.5 million and $6.5 million, respectively. in part as a result of these rules, the number of lifeline customers we served decreased from 2,794 wireline and 9,106 wireless lifeline customers at december 31, 2012 to 2,151 wireline and 7,145 wireless lifeline customers at december 31, 2013. we expect the amount of lifeline usf support we receive to decrease. going forward, we expect that it will be more difficult for low-income consumers to qualify for lifeline, and to remain enrolled in lifeline, than it was under the former rules. economic conditions the successful operation and growth of our businesses depends heavily on economic conditions in alaska. the vast majority of our customers and operations are located in alaska. due to our geographical concentration, the successful operation and growth of our businesses depends on economic conditions in alaska. the alaska economy, in turn, depends upon many factors, including:     •   the strength of the natural resources industries, particularly oil production and prices;     •   the strength of the alaska tourism industry;     •   the level of government and military spending; and     •   the continued growth of service industries. the population of alaska is approximately 730,000 with anchorage, fairbanks and juneau serving as the primary population and economic centers in the state. it is estimated that one-third of alaska’s economy is dependent on federal spending, one-third on petroleum and the remaining one-third on drivers such as tourism, mining, timber, seafood, international air cargo and miscellaneous support services. the sector with the greatest decline in 2013, according to the labor department, was the federal government, which lost an estimated 800 jobs. federal government employment in alaska averaged approximately 15,600 during 2013. alaska’s economy is heavily dependent on investment by oil companies, and state tax revenues correlate with the price of oil. during 2013, the price of crude oil continued to exhibit significant volatility. while the near term outlook for alaska’s economy is relatively stable, the state is experiencing reduced oil and natural gas production. production of barrels of oil per day declined from approximately 527,000 in 2012 to approximately 514,000 in 2013, or 2.5%. the consideration of potential tax policy changes to stem and reverse this decline is a high priority with both the state legislature and administration. we do not know what the long-term effect on the alaska economy will be.   21 table of contents on the positive side, the tourism industry maintains steady progress as the overall national economy stabilizes. visitor volume was up 7% year over year, increasing from 1,586,600 in the summer of 2012 to 1,693,800 in the summer of 2013. erosion of access lines we provide services to many customers over access lines, and if we continue to lose access lines, our revenues, earnings and cash flow from operating activities may decrease. our business generates revenue by delivering voice and data services over access lines. we have experienced net access line loss over the past few years and the rate of loss with consumers, in particular, has been accelerating. during the year ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 our business access line erosion was 1,036 and 2,203, respectively, while over the same period our consumer access line erosion was 6,526 and 6,684 respectively. we expect to continue to experience net access line loss in our markets, affecting our revenues, earnings and cash flow from operating activities. network / e-911 failure a failure of our network could cause significant delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. to be successful, we will need to continue to provide our customers reliable service over our network. our network and infrastructure are constantly at risk of physical damage as a result of human, natural or other factors. these factors may include pandemics, acts of terrorism, sabotage, natural disasters, power surges or outages, software defects, contractor or vendor failures, labor disputes and other disruptions that may be beyond our control. should we experience a prolonged system failure or a significant service interruption, our customers may choose a different provider and our reputation may be damaged. further, we may not have adequate insurance coverage, which would result in unexpected expense. notably, similar to other undersea fiber optic cable operators, we do not carry insurance that would cover the cost of repair of our undersea cables and, thus, we would bear the full cost of any necessary repairs. a failure of enhanced emergency calling services associated with our network may harm our business. we provide e-911 service to our customers where such service is available. we also contract from time to time with municipalities to upgrade their public safety answering points such that those facilities become capable of receiving our transmission of a 911 caller’s location information and telephone number. if the emergency call center is unable to process such information, the caller is provided only basic 911 services. in these instances, the emergency caller may be required to verbally advise the operator of such caller’s location at the time of the call. any inability of the answering point to automatically recognize the caller’s location or telephone number, whether or not it occurs as a result of our network operations, may cause us to incur liability or cause our reputation or financial results to suffer. wireless devices wireless devices may pose health and safety risks and driving while using a wireless phone may be prohibited; as a result, demand for our services may decrease. media reports have suggested that, and studies have been undertaken to determine whether, certain radio frequency emissions from wireless devices and cell sites may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer. further, radio frequency emissions may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. if consumers’ health concerns over radio frequency emission increase, they may be discouraged from using wireless devices. in addition, studies have indicated that using wireless devices while driving may impair a driver’s attention. regulators may impose or increase restrictions on the location and operation of cell sites or increase regulation on the use of devices, and wireless providers may be exposed to litigation. our fleet management service allows for the remote starting of vehicles. in certain situations this could result in injuries or damages for which we may be exposed to litigation. new government regulations in any of these matters may adversely affect our results of operations.   22 table of contents employees we depend on the availability of personnel within our geographic location with the requisite level of technical expertise in the telecommunications industry. our ability to develop and maintain our networks and execute our business plan is dependent on the availability of technical engineering, it, service delivery and monitoring, product development, sales, management, finance and other key personnel within our geographic location labor costs and the terms of our principal collective bargaining agreement (cba) may hurt our ability to remain competitive, which could cause our financial performance to suffer. labor costs are a significant component of our expenses and, as of december 31, 2013, approximately 65% of our workforce is represented by the ibew. we believe our labor costs are higher than our competitors who employ a non-unionized workforce because we are required by the cba to contribute to the ibew health and welfare trust and the alaska electrical pension fund for benefit programs, including defined benefit pension plans and health benefit plans, that are not reflective of the competitive marketplace and require us to pay substantially more costs than incurred by our competitors. in addition, we may make strategic and operational decisions that require the consent of the ibew. the ibew may not provide consent when we need it, or it may require additional wages, benefits or other consideration be paid in return for its consent. furthermore, work rules under the existing agreement limit our ability to efficiently manage our resources and make the incremental cost of work performed outside normal work hours relatively high. our current cba with the ibew that is in effect until december 31, 2015, includes provisions that allow us to be more cost competitive in certain areas. the ibew has entered into several agreements with us over the last year which have provided for isolated cost savings; however, we are facing resistance to changes that are essential for our future success. should we not reach agreement with the ibew on these matters; our ability to be competitive will be impacted as will our future financial results. our primary in-state competitor, gci, does not use union labor and we believe their overall cost of labor is lower than our cost. while we continue to work with ibew to become more cost competitive, we cannot assure you that our labor costs will ever become competitive. in addition, the ibew has brought and may continue to bring grievances to binding arbitration. the ibew may also bring court actions and may seek to compel us to engage in the bargaining processes where we believe we have no such obligation. if successful, there is a risk these judicial or arbitral avenues could create additional costs that we did not anticipate. vendors we rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of equipment and services for our network infrastructure and customer support services. if these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain the equipment and services we require to operate our business successfully. we depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services for our network and certain customer services. if suppliers of our equipment or providers of services on which we rely experience financial difficulties, service or billing interruptions, patent litigation or other problems, subscriber growth and our operating results could suffer. suppliers that use proprietary technology, effectively lock us into one or a few suppliers for key network components. other suppliers require us to maintain exclusive relationships under a contract. as a result, we have become reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers and one wireless billing service provider. in the event it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement suppliers or vendors on economically attractive terms on a timely basis, or at all, which could increase costs and may cause disruption in service. networks, monitoring centers and data hosting facilities maintaining the company’s networks, around the clock monitoring centers and data hosting facilities requires significant capital expenditures, and our inability or failure to maintain and upgrade our networks and data centers would have a material impact on our market share and ability to generate revenue.   23 table of contents the company currently operates an extensive network that includes monitoring and hosting facilities. to provide contractual levels of service to our customers and remain competitive, we must expend significant amounts of capital. in many cases, we must rely on outside vendors whose performance and costs may not be sufficiently within our control. additionally, other alaska and national wireless carriers are upgrading their networks with various technologies including 4g. awn’s full implementation of 4g technology will likely take several years and the company may lag behind competitors. if we cannot adequately maintain and upgrade our network, or awn maintain and upgrade the wireless network it would have a material adverse effect on our business, net income and cash flow from operations. information technology systems a failure of back-office it systems could adversely affect the company’s results of operations and financial condition. the efficient operation of the company’s business depends on back-office it systems. the company relies on back-office it systems, including certain systems provided by third party vendors, to effectively manage customer billing, business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment and other business processes. some of these systems are no longer supported under maintenance agreements from the underlying vendor. a failure of the company’s it systems, or the it systems provided by third party vendors, to perform as anticipated could disrupt the company’s business and result in a failure to collect accounts receivable, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing the company’s reputation and results of operations to suffer. in addition, it systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond the company’s control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, security breaches and viruses. any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, margins and financial condition. cyber-attacks may damage our networks or breach customer and other proprietary data, leading to service disruption, harm to reputation, loss of customers, and litigation over privacy violations. all industries that rely on technology in customer interactions are increasingly at risk for cyber-attacks. a cyber-attack could be levied against our network, causing disruption of operations and service, requiring implementation of greater network security measures, and resulting in lost revenue due to lost service. a cyber-attack could also be targeted to infiltrate customer proprietary and other data, breaching customer privacy, resulting in misuse of customer information and other data, and possibly leading to litigation over privacy breaches and causing harm to the company’s reputation. we rely on a variety of procedures to guard against cyber-attacks, but the rate of threats from these attacks is growing globally and the risk to us is also growing. undersea fiber optic cable systems if failures occur in our undersea fiber optic cable systems, our ability to immediately restore our service may be limited. our undersea fiber optic cable systems carry a large portion of our traffic to and from the contiguous lower 48 states. if a failure occurs and we are not able to secure alternative facilities, some of the communications services we offer to our customers could be interrupted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. intellectual property third parties may claim that the company is infringing upon their intellectual property, and the company could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products. although the company does not believe that any of its products or services infringe upon the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, the company may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of its technology, products or services. any litigation growing out of third party patents or other intellectual property claims could be costly and time consuming and could divert the company’s management and key personnel from its business operations. the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. resolution of claims of intellectual property infringement might also require the company to enter into costly license   24 table of contents agreements. likewise, the company may not be able to obtain license agreements on acceptable terms. the company also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of its products. further, the company often relies on licenses of third party intellectual property for its businesses. the company cannot ensure these licenses will be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. if any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, margins and financial condition. security breaches a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information or damage our reputation. any such failure also could have a significant adverse effect on our reputation, cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. additionally, breaches of security may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having authorized or unauthorized access to confidential or other information. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our information or our customers’ information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures arising from operational and security risks, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. with regard to the physical infrastructure that supports our operations, we have taken measures to implement backup systems and other safeguards, but our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any disruption to that infrastructure. such disruptions could involve electrical, communications, internet, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business. the costs associated with such disruptions, including any loss of business, could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. any of these operational and security risks could lead to significant and negative consequences, including reputational harm as well as loss of customers and business opportunities, which in turn could have a significant adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. in 2014 a laptop of one of our employees was infected with a virus, which then transmitted data to an unknown third party site. we do not know what data was transmitted, but after investigation, we identified information on this machine that included names, social security numbers and addresses of former and current employees. we do not know if this information was transmitted, but we are taking additional security measures to prevent this type of incident in the future. we have offered free credit monitoring services to these employees for one year to provide protection should there have been an impact. pension and deferred compensation plans we may incur substantial and unexpected liabilities arising out of our pension and deferred compensation plans. our pension and deferred compensation plans could result in substantial liabilities on our balance sheet. these plans and activities have and will generate substantial cash requirements for us and these requirements may increase beyond our expectations in future years based on changing market conditions. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension, other post-retirement and post-employment benefit plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plans. in the future, we may be required to make additional contributions to our defined benefit plan. plan liabilities may impair our liquidity, have an unfavorable impact on our ability to obtain financing and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors who do not have such liabilities and cash requirements.   25 table of contents our most significant pension plan is the alaska electrical pension fund (the “aepf”) in which we participate on behalf of substantially all of our employees. the aepf is a multi-employer pension plan to which we make fixed, per employee contributions through our collective bargaining agreement with the ibew, which covers our ibew represented workforce, and a special agreement, which covers most of our non-represented workforce. because our contribution requirements are fixed, we cannot easily adjust our annual plan contributions to address our own financial circumstances. currently, this plan is not fully funded, which means we may be subject to increased contribution obligations, penalties, and ultimately we could incur a contingent withdrawal liability should we choose to withdraw from the aepf for economic reasons. our contingent withdrawal liability is an amount based on our pro-rata share among aepf participants of the value of the funding shortfall. this contingent liability becomes due and payable by us if we terminate our participation in the aepf. moreover, if another participant in the aepf goes bankrupt, we would become liable for a pro-rata share of the bankrupt participant’s vested, but unpaid, liability for accrued benefits for that participant’s employees. this could result in a substantial unexpected contribution requirement and making such a contribution could have a material adverse effect on our cash position and other financial results. these sources of potential liability are difficult to predict. given the complexity of pension-related matters we may not, in every instance, be in full compliance with applicable requirements. key members of senior management we depend on key members of our senior management team. our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our senior management team as well as our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management and technical personnel. there is intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry and we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. our remote location also presents a challenge to us in attracting new talent. if we lose one or more of our key employees, our ability to successfully implement our business plan could be materially adversely affected. we do not maintain any “key person” insurance on any of our personnel. future acquisitions future acquisitions could result in operating and financial difficulties. our future growth may depend, in part, on acquisitions. to the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we will face the operational and financial risks that commonly accompany that strategy. we would also face operational risks, such as failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, disrupting their ongoing businesses, increasing the complexity of our business, and impairing management resources and management’s relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in their ownership and management. further, the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, as well as the integration of an acquired business, may divert management time and other resources. some acquisitions may not be successful and their performance may result in the impairment of their carrying value. volatility risks related to our common stock continued volatility in the price of our common stock would negatively affect us and our stockholders. the trading price of our common stock was volatile during 2013 in response to a number of factors, including the elimination of our quarterly dividend in 2012, the awn transaction which is unique in our industry, and the continued uncertainty regarding the impact of verizon’s entry into the market and future high cost support revenue. additional factors, many of which are beyond our control, include actual or anticipated variations in quarterly financial results, changes in financial expectations by securities analysts and announcements by our current and future competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. in addition, our financial results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. broad market and industry factors have also negatively affected the price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance and we do not know how long these adverse market conditions will continue. future volatility in our stock price could materially adversely affect the trading market and prices for our common stock as well as our ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing.   26 table of contents location specific risk we operate in remote areas subject to geologic instability and other natural events which could negatively impact our operations. many of our operations are located in areas that are prone to earthquakes, fires, and other natural disturbance. many of these areas have limited emergency response assets and may be difficult to reach in an emergency situation. should an event occur, it could be weeks or longer before remediation efforts could be implemented, if they could be implemented at all. the scope and risk of such an event occurring is difficult to gauge. item 1b. unresolved