item 1a. risk factors we face a variety of risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. the risks described below are not the only ones we face and should be considered in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the sec, including our subsequent reports on forms 10-q and 8-k. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. if any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. risks relating to our industry the telecommunications industry in alaska is extremely competitive and will become even more competitive if and when verizon enters the market. the telecommunications industry in alaska is extremely competitive and will become even more competitive if and when verizon enters the market. we face increasing competition for a small number of customers from national wireless carriers that have entered or will enter our market. new market entrants will make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers. we may also lose roaming revenues from carriers that enter the alaskan market.      wireless competition we face strong competition from wireless competitors including at&t and gci. our principal wireless competitor, at&t, is one of the largest wireless service providers in the u.s. at&t also has more alaskan customers than we do and we believe that they serve more than 50% of the wireless customers in alaska. in addition, verizon wireless has acquired the 700 mhz c-block wireless spectrum license covering alaska. verizon currently holds no other spectrum in alaska, and we expect it to use the acquired spectrum to deploy 4g services in alaska, although we cannot predict when verizon would choose to deploy the service in alaska. we cannot predict whether verizon will build its own facilities in alaska or provide service through a local partner. if verizon partners with a local provider that currently competes with us, both verizon and such local competitor would gain strength in our market. 16 table of contents as large national carriers, both at&t and verizon have vastly greater access to financial, technical and other resources than we do. they have greater access to popular devices and greater market power to obtain these devices on more favorable terms than we do. at&t and verizon, thus, may be able to offer lower prices, additional products, services, features or other incentives that we cannot match. larger competitors, such as at&t and verizon may also be in a position to respond more quickly to new technologies and be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. moreover, at&t and verizon operate their own nationwide network, whereas we rely on roaming agreements with other carriers to provide coverage outside alaska, and conversely, provide revenue to us for our coverage in alaska. our reliance on these agreements could adversely affect our ability to maintain competitive pricing or roaming revenues, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial results.      wireline competition our principal wireline competitor, gci, is the dominant cable television provider in alaska. in consumer markets, gci attempts to use its dominant cable television position by bundling its cable services with competitive telephony services, which are often based on leases of our facilities. we do not offer television service, and thus, are unable to offer competing bundles. in addition, gci has aggressively deployed cable telephony in order to move its telephone customers off of our network and onto its own cable system. significant, continued migration of customers would result in a significant reduction of revenue for us. in addition, gci holds a dominant position in the current long-haul voice and data markets, where it owns and operates two of the four existing undersea fiber optic cables connecting alaska to the contiguous states and has a number of significant contracts with large carrier customers. gci competes very aggressively on price in this market to defend its market share. in addition, at&t has acquired a substantial amount of interstate and intrastate fiber optic capacity from gci, which may allow it to offer additional competing service from its national platform. these strong competitive pressures in both our wireless and wireline business segments could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, margins and financial condition.      device access exclusive arrangements between wireless device manufacturers and large wireless carriers hamper our ability to procure and sell many popular wireless handsets and other devices. our wireless business competes against national and well-funded wireless service providers, most notably, at&t and in the future, potentially, verizon. as a smaller carrier, we do not have access to many wireless products and services that at&t and verizon can offer. we are precluded from obtaining new wireless devices subject to exclusive agreements with large wireless carriers, such as the iphone®, which only at&t and verizon can offer. other than at&t and potentially, verizon, no other national wireless provider has a presence in our market. even so, exclusive arrangements for new devices, into which other national carriers enter, make them unavailable to us. because devices subject to exclusivity agreements may be those most sought after by customers, our inability to sell those devices may harm our ability to stay competitive. because wireless subscribers are permitted to retain their wireless phone numbers when changing to another wireless carrier within the same geographic area, customers may change carriers simply to obtain a device that we do not offer. our limited ability to procure certain devices could increase wireless customer churn and may also limit our flexibility to price our services for quality of customer experience, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and cash flows. if we do not adapt to rapid technological advancements and changes in telecommunications standards, our ability to compete would be strained, and as a result, we would lose customers. our success will likely depend on our ability to adapt to rapid technological changes in the telecommunications industry. our failure to adopt a new technology or our choice of one technology over another may have an adverse effect on our ability to compete or meet the demands of our customers. technological changes could, among other things, reduce the barriers to entry facing our competitors providing local service in our service areas. the pace of technology change and our ability to deploy new technologies may be constrained by insufficient capital and/or the need to generate sufficient cash to make interest payments on our debt and to maintain our dividend policy. new products and services may arise out of technological developments and our inability to keep pace with these developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. some of our competitors may have greater resources to respond to changing technology than we do. if we fail to adapt successfully to technological 17 table of contents changes or fail to obtain access to new technologies, we could lose customers and be unable to attract new customers and/or sell new services to our existing customers. we may be unable to successfully deliver new products and services, and we may not generate anticipated revenues from such products or services. risks relating to our debt      substantial debt our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health, financing options and liquidity position. we have a substantial amount of debt. as of december 31, 2010, and for the year then ended, we had total debt of $553.3 million and a loss before income tax expense of $0.8 million. our debt could have important consequences for you as a holder of our common stock. for example, our substantial debt and the related loan covenants could:   •   require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, our dividend and other general corporate purposes;     •   limit our flexibility to plan, adjust or react to changing economic, market or industry conditions, reduce our ability to withstand competitive pressures and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;     •   place us at a competitive disadvantage to many of our competitors who are less leveraged than we are;     •   limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, including strategic acquisitions and other general corporate requirements or hinder us from obtaining such financing on terms favorable to us or at all; or     •   limit our ability to refinance our debt. the terms of our senior credit facility and the terms of our other debt allows us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. if new debt is added, the related risks described above would intensify. our substantial debt exposes us to adverse changes in interest rates. in the past we have entered into floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps to hedge our exposure to interest rate changes. with the refinancing of our senior debt on october 21, 2010, we terminated the related swaps and entered into replacement swaps that will fix the interest rates on $385.0 million of notional term loan value at 6.47% for the period june 30, 2012 through september 30, 2015. until that time, while we have partially limited our exposure to interest rate risk by acquiring an interest rate cap that limits the london interbank offered rate (“libor”) to 3.0%, we will be directly exposed to increases in our interest expense any time libor exceeds 1.5% up to a cap of 3.0%. we are also subject to credit risk related to our counterparties on the swaps and the interest rate cap and to interest rate fluctuations on interest generated by our debt in excess of the notional term loans referenced above. for more specific information related to our exposure to changes in interest rates and our use of floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, please see “item 7a—quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.”      debt-related financial covenants financial covenants in our debt instruments limit our operating flexibility. our senior credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and adhere to other covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe such actions are in our best interest. these include restrictions on our ability to:   •   pay dividends or distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock;     •   issue certain preferred or redeemable capital stock;     •   incur additional debt;     •   create liens;     •   make certain types of investments, loans, advances or other forms of payments;     •   issue, sell or allow distributions on capital stock of specified subsidiaries;     •   prepay or defease specified debt;     •   enter into transactions with affiliates; or     •   merge, consolidate or sell our assets. 18 table of contents      our ability to meet the financial ratios is dependent, among other factors, on our achieving targeted results of operations. we may not be able to achieve these targets for a variety of reasons, some of which are beyond our control, including the potential negative impact on our operations that could occur if, and when, verizon enters the alaska market. for example, based on our current total leverage, if competition from verizon and the related loss of roaming revenue (or any other factor or combination of factors) caused the company’s adjusted ebitda, as defined in our senior credit facility, to drop below approximately $107.6 million for any four consecutive quarters, the company would be required to suspend its dividend. if adjusted ebitda dropped below $102.5 million for any four consecutive quarters then the company could be in default (for comparison, adjusted ebitda was $126.3 million in 2010). upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior credit facility to be immediately due and payable. such a default or acceleration may allow our other creditors to accelerate our other debt. if the lenders accelerate the payment of the debt under our senior credit facility, our assets may not be sufficient to repay our debts.      debt service requirements we require a significant amount of cash to service our debt, pay dividends, fund our growth projects and meet other liquidity needs. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt, including amounts borrowed under our senior credit facility and our 5.75% convertible notes due 2013, to pay dividends, and to fund planned capital expenditures, including any strategic acquisitions we may make, if any, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations such that our currently anticipated growth in revenues and cash flow will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable the repayment of our debt, pay dividends or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, including the convertible notes, on or before maturity. our 2010 senior credit facility requires $100.0 million of our currently outstanding convertible notes to be repaid or refinanced by december 19, 2012, to prevent a default event. we may not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if we are unable to refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, including:   •   sales of certain assets to meet our debt service requirements;     •   reduce cash available for dividends;     •   sales of equity; and     •   negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. if we are forced to pursue any of the above options our business and the value of our common stock could be adversely affected.      convertible debt related risks the call options we purchased and the warrants we sold contemporaneously with the sale of our convertible notes may affect the trading price of our common stock and the value of the convertible notes. the counterparties to the call options we purchased and warrants we sold may engage in hedging activities and modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to the conversion or maturity of our senior convertible notes, particularly around the time of any conversion of the notes. these hedging activities may include purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, or other of our securities, or other instruments, including over-the-counter derivative instruments. the effect, if any, of these activities on the trading price of our common stock or the convertible notes, will depend in part on market conditions at the time and cannot be reasonably predicted at this time. any of these activities could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the value of the convertible notes. risks related to our business      akorn and northstar fiber profitability we may not successfully operate our akorn and northstar fiber facilities that connect alaska to the contiguous states profitably. 19 table of contents realization of the anticipated benefits of our redundant interstate investments will depend on our ability to attract significant enterprise customers requiring robust data service capabilities. we will continue to be required to devote significant management attention and resources to sustaining and promoting operations and maintaining support. we will face challenges in our abilities to do the following:   •   develop attractive products and services that operate seamlessly with our existing technology and infrastructure;     •   maintain and upgrade timely the complex underlying hardware and software technology that drives optimal use of these facilities;     •   attract a sufficient volume of traffic on these fiber facilities to make them profitable;     •   offer products and services that use these fiber facilities that are attractive to our target customers;     •   preserve key customer, supplier and other important relationships and resolve potential conflicts that may arise; and     •   generate sufficient revenues to maintain increased indebtedness raised to complete these projects. if we do not maintain or improve our current relationships with existing customers and develop new large volume and enterprise customers, we may not be able to realize our targets for sales and revenue growth. if we are unable to achieve our projected revenue growth and margins anticipated from the investment, we may be unable to profitably operate these facilities.      long-haul fiber competition increased supply of interstate and international long-haul fiber in alaska could adversely impact prices for bandwidth, which could in turn, adversely affect our projected and actual sales, margins and profitability of our fiber facility. significant increases in fiber transport capacity in the united states have at times exerted downward pressure on prices, margins and profitability. the market for long-haul fiber in alaska is characterized by high capital investment and relatively high fixed costs, coupled with a limited number of large customers. some of our existing and potential competitors have greater name recognition and more established relationships with our target customers. further, these competitors may have more experience with the repair and maintenance of the underlying data transport technology, and its associated costs, than we do. our primary wireline competitor, gci, has adopted a very aggressive pricing policy in the long-haul interstate voice and data markets. gci has also sold a very large amount of capacity to at&t, which allows them to serve their own needs and sell to others, effectively establishing a national competitor in this market. we cannot predict with any certainty what the prevailing market prices will be for interstate voice and data transport or when prices for these services will stabilize, if at all.      access lines we provide services to many customers over access lines, and if we continue to lose access lines, our revenues, earnings and cash flow from operations may decrease. our business generates revenue by delivering voice and data services over access lines. we have experienced net access line loss consistently over the past few years. during the year ended december 31, 2010, the number of access lines we serve declined by 7.1%. we expect to experience net access line loss in our markets for an unforeseen period of time. our inability to retain access lines would adversely affect our revenues, earnings and cash flow from operations.      access charges and usf support revenues from network access charges may be reduced or lost. we received approximately 17.6% of our operating revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 from local exchange network access charges. the amount of revenue that we receive from these access charges is calculated in accordance with requirements set by the fcc and the rca. any change in these requirements may reduce our revenues and earnings. access charges have consistently decreased in past years. we do not receive access revenue related to our competitors’ retail customers that are served by unes or by the competitors’ own facilities. to the extent that competitors move customers on to unes or off our network entirely, our access revenues will decrease. we do not receive access revenue from voip calls and growth of this service will reduce our access revenues. 20 table of contents the fcc has actively reviewed new mechanisms for inter-carrier compensation that, in some cases, could eliminate access charges entirely. elimination of access charges would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings. in any event, we believe that new mechanisms for inter-carrier compensation would more likely than not reduce this source of revenue. similarly, the rca has adopted regulations modifying intrastate access charges that may reduce our revenue. in addition, we have periodically been involved in disputes about interstate access revenues. we cannot assure you that claims alleging excess charges will not be made in the future nor whether we would prevail against such claims. we may not continue to receive as much usf support as we have in the past. we receive usf (and equivalent state universal service support) revenues to support our wireline operations in high cost areas. the fcc has proposed new rules requiring competitive carriers to justify support based on some measure of their own costs or on a model and allowing certain ilec etcs that lose lines to increase their local switching support from the usf. the fcc also has proposed reforms that could affect the amount of funding for ilecs, including using “reverse auctions” to determine one or more recipients of high cost support in any geographic area based on the lowest bidder for that support and phasing out support for voice services and targeting support to broadband networks. notably, on february 8, 2011, as part of a request for public comment, the fcc indicated support for the elimination of the “identical support” rule that permits competitive carriers, such as acsw and our wireless competitors, to apply for funding based on the support received by the incumbent carrier. should those changes be implemented, the extent of any transition period or any special treatment for carriers located in alaska is uncertain. in addition, members of congress have indicated that they may seek enactment of legislation addressing universal service reform, including legislation to limit growth of explicit universal service support funds. these and other proposed rule changes could reduce our support in the future. for more information on this and our regulatory environment, please see “item 1—business—regulation.”      roaming charges we derive a significant portion of our wireless revenue from roaming charges. this revenue may fluctuate or decline in the future as a result of general economic, contractual and competitive factors. approximately 7.8% of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 2010 was derived from roaming charges incurred by other wireless providers whose customers traveled within our coverage areas. the revenue we recognize from these roaming charges may in the future be volatile or decline as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. these factors include the strength of the alaskan economy and its primary industries, including tourism, general economic factors affecting commerce between alaska and other states and countries, unresolved political matters which may affect public and private spending in alaska and others. for example, our service areas include a number of summer tourist destinations in alaska. as a result, in these areas, our roaming revenue generally increases during summer months and declines during other periods and depends heavily on the number of tourists who visit alaskan tourist destinations. in addition, we cannot assure you our roaming agreements with other providers will continue to generate similar roaming revenues. our agreements with other carriers have varying terms of varying length, including some which are terminable on short notice. in the event these roaming agreements expire or are terminated, we may be unable to renegotiate or replace these agreements on similar or acceptable terms. failure to obtain acceptable roaming agreements could lead to a significant decline in our revenue and operating income. lastly, changes in the network footprints of our roaming partners, or those of our competitors who are able to provide roaming coverage in our service areas, could have a material adverse effect on us. for example, if verizon enters the alaska market, we estimate we could potentially lose up to 90% of our roaming revenue and we may also lose roaming revenue from other partners if they moved their roaming relationship to verizon or if we retained the relationship, but the presence of verizon, coupled with our other competitors, pushed down market rates for roaming charges.      economic conditions the successful operation and growth of our businesses depends heavily on economic conditions in alaska. the vast majority of our customers and operations are located in alaska. due to our geographical concentration, the successful operation and growth of our businesses depends on economic conditions in alaska. the alaskan economy, in turn, depends upon many factors, including:   •   the strength of the natural resources industries, particularly oil production and prices; 21 table of contents   •   the strength of the alaskan tourism industry;     •   the level of government and military spending; and     •   the continued growth of services industries. the customer base for telecommunications services in alaska is small and geographically concentrated. according to the alaska department of labor and workforce development estimates, the population of alaska is approximately 710,231 as of april 31, 2010, approximately 60% of whom live in anchorage, fairbanks and juneau. alaska’s economy is heavily dependent on investment by oil companies and state tax revenues correlate with the price of oil. during 2010, the price of crude oil continued to exhibit significant volatility. we do not know what the long-term effect on the alaskan economy will be or if it will even be stable.      pension and deferred compensation plans we may incur substantial and unexpected liabilities arising out of our pension and deferred compensation plans. our post-retirement benefits, pension, and deferred compensation plans could result in substantial liabilities on our balance sheet. these plans and activities have and will generate substantial cash requirements for us and these requirements may increase beyond our expectations in future years based on changing market conditions. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension, other post-retirement and post-employment benefit plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plans. in the future, we may be required to make additional contributions to our defined benefit plan. plan liabilities may impair our liquidity, have an unfavorable impact on our ability to obtain financing and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors who do not have such liabilities and cash requirements. in addition, on behalf of substantially all of our employees, we participate in the alaska electrical pension fund (the “aepf”). the aepf is a multi-employer pension plan to which we make fixed, per employee contributions through our collective bargaining agreement with the ibew, which covers our ibew represented workforce, and a special agreement, which covers most of our non-represented workforce. because our contribution requirements are fixed, we cannot easily adjust our annual plan contributions to address our own financial circumstances. further, because we do not control the aepf, we are not aware at all times whether the plan is fully funded. in general, if a funding shortfall in the aepf exists, we incur a contingent withdrawal liability. our contingent withdrawal liability is an amount based on our pro-rata share among aepf participants of the value of the funding shortfall. this contingent liability becomes due and payable by us if we terminate our participation in the aepf. moreover, if another participant in the aepf goes bankrupt, we would become liable for a pro-rata share of the bankrupt participant’s vested, but unpaid, liability for accrued benefits for that participant’s employees. this could result in a substantial unexpected contribution requirement and making such a contribution could have a material adverse effect on our cash position and other financial results. these sources of potential liability are difficult to predict.      regulations new governmental regulations may impose obligations on us to upgrade our existing technology or adopt new technology that may require additional capital and we may not be able to comply in a timely manner with these new regulations. our markets are heavily regulated. we cannot predict the extent the government will impose new unfunded mandates on us. such mandates have included those related to emergency location, providing access to hearing-impaired customers, law enforcement assistance and local number portability. each of these government mandates has imposed new requirements for capital that we could not have predicted with any precision. along with these obligations, the fcc has imposed deadlines for compliance with these mandates. we may not be able to provide services that comply with these mandates in time to meet the imposed deadlines. further, we cannot predict whether other mandates from the fcc or other regulatory authorities, will occur in the future or the demands they may place on our capital expenditures. for more information on our regulatory environment and the risks it presents to us, see “item 1 — business — regulation”. 22 table of contents      labor labor costs and the terms of our principal collective bargaining agreement may hurt our ability to remain competitive, which could cause our financial performance to suffer. labor costs are a significant component of our expenses and approximately 74% of our workforce is represented by the ibew. as a result of our collective bargaining agreement with the ibew, we may experience pressure to increase wages and benefits for our employees. we believe our labor costs are higher than our competitors who employ a non-unionized workforce. in addition, we may make strategic and operational decisions that require the consent of the ibew. the ibew may not provide consent when we need it, or it may require additional wages, benefits or other consideration be paid in return for its consent. our primary in-state competitor, gci, does not use union labor and pays lower compensation than we do. we cannot assure you that our labor costs will ever become competitive. in addition, the ibew has brought and may continue to bring grievances to binding arbitration. the ibew may also bring court actions and may seek to compel us to engage in the bargaining processes where we believe we have no such obligation. if successful, there is a risk these judicial or arbitral avenues could create additional costs that we did not anticipate.      key members of senior management we depend on key members of our senior management team. our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our senior management team as well as our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management and technical personnel. there is intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry and we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. our remote location also presents a challenge to us in attracting new talent. if we lose one or more of our key employees, our ability to successfully implement our business plan could be materially adversely affected. we do not maintain any “key person” insurance on any of our personnel.      vendors we rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of equipment and services for our network infrastructure and customer support services. if these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain the equipment and services we require to operate our business successfully. we depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services for our network and certain customer services. if suppliers of our equipment or providers of services on which we rely experience financial difficulties, service or billing interruptions, patent litigation or other problems, subscriber growth and our operating results could suffer. suppliers that use proprietary technology, including cdma technology, as an integral component of our network, effectively lock us into one or few suppliers for key network components. other suppliers require us to maintain exclusive relationships under a contract. as a result, we have become reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers and one wireless billing service provider. in the event it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement suppliers or vendors on economically attractive terms on a timely basis, or at all, which could increase costs and may cause disruption in service.      network / e-911 failure a failure of our network could cause significant delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. to be successful, we will need to continue to provide our customers reliable service over our network. our network and infrastructure are constantly at risk of physical damage to access lines or other facilities as a result of human, natural or other factors. these factors may include pandemics, acts of terrorism, sabotage, natural disasters, power surges or outages, software defects, contractor or vendor failures, labor disputes and other disruptions that may be beyond our control. should we experience a prolonged system failure or a significant service interruption, our customers may choose a different provider and our reputation may be damaged. further, we may not have adequate insurance coverage, which would result in unexpected expense. notably, 23 table of contents similar to other undersea fiber optic cable operators, we do not carry insurance that would cover the cost of repair of our undersea cables and, thus, we would bear the full cost of any necessary repairs. a failure of enhanced emergency calling services associated with our network may harm our business. we provide e-911 service to our customers where such service is available. we also contract from time to time with municipalities to upgrade their public safety answering points such that those facilitates become capable of receiving our transmission of a 911 caller’s location information and telephone number. if the emergency call center is unable to process such information, the caller is provided only basic 911 services. in these instances, the emergency caller may be required to verbally advise the operator of such caller’s location at the time of the call. any inability of the answering point to automatically recognize the caller’s location or telephone number, whether or not it occurs as a result of our network operations, may cause us to incur liability or cause our reputation or financial results to suffer.      wireless devices wireless devices may pose health and safety risks and driving while using a wireless phone may be prohibited; as a result, demand for our services may decrease. media reports have suggested that, and studies have been undertaken to determine whether, certain radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets and cell sites may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer. further, radio frequency emissions may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. if consumers’ health concerns over radio frequency emission increase, they may be discouraged from using wireless handsets. in addition, studies have indicated that using wireless devices while driving may impair a driver’s attention. regulators may impose or increase restrictions on the location and operation of cell sites or increase regulation on the use of handsets, and wireless providers may be exposed to litigation. our fleet management service allows for the remote starting of vehicles. in certain situations this could result in injuries or damages for which we may be exposed to litigation. new government regulations in any of these matters may adversely affect our results of operations.      future acquisitions future acquisitions could result in operating and financial difficulties. our future growth may depend, in part, on acquisitions. to the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we will face the operational and financial risks that commonly accompany that strategy. we would also face operational risks, such as failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, disrupting their ongoing businesses, increasing complexity of our business, impairing management resources and their relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in their ownership and management. further, the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, as well as the integration of an acquired business, may divert management time and other resources. some acquisitions may not be successful and their performance may result in the impairment of their carrying value. certain financial and operational risks related to acquisitions that may have a material impact on our business are:   •   use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness;     •   amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and other adverse accounting consequences;     •   costs incurred in identifying and performing due diligence on potential acquisition targets that may or may not be successful;     •   difficulties and expenses in assimilating the operations, products, technology, privacy protection systems, information systems or personnel of the acquired company;     •   impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers and affiliates of our business and the acquired business;     •   the assumption of known and unknown debt and liabilities of the acquired company;     •   failure to generate adequate returns on our acquisitions and investments;     •   entrance into markets in which we have no direct prior experience; and     •   impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets arising from our acquisitions. 24 table of contents risks related to the on-going irs audit we are subject to a significant ongoing irs audit, which could, in the event we prove unable to effectively enforce the indemnification obligations of third parties, require us to pay significant amounts. as discussed in the section entitled “legal proceedings” in item 3 of this report, the internal revenue service (the “service”) issued a notice of proposed adjustment (“nopa”) on april 19, 2010 with respect to the 2006, 2007 and 2008 taxable years of crest. in that notice, the service asserts that advances made to entities which crest acquired out of bankruptcy in 2002 should be characterized as debt for tax purposes. crest had characterized the advances as equity for tax purposes. the service asserts that debt characterization resulted in cancellation of indebtedness income. on november 2, 2010, the service issued a revised notice of proposed adjustment in which it continues to assert that the advances referenced above are debt for tax purposes and seeks to impose penalties in respect of the asserted income tax deficiencies. in addition, the revised notice asserts that the method employed by the same entities acquired by crest to determine cost of goods sold related to the sales of indefeasible rights of use was unreasonable and that the entities inappropriately depreciated basis in “dark fiber”. should the appeals process fail to overturn the proposed adjustments; should we be unable to preserve the corporate structure of the crest subsidiaries; and should we prove unable to effectively enforce the indemnification provisions in the stock purchase agreement (“spa”), this could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to our common stock      dividends you may not receive the level of dividends provided for in our dividend policy or any dividends at all. we are not obligated to pay dividends. our board of directors may decide not to pay dividends at any time and for any reason. we might not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock in the intended amounts or at all. if our cash flows from operations for future periods were to fall below our minimum expectations, we would need either to reduce or eliminate dividends or, to the extent permitted under the terms of our senior credit facility or any future agreement governing our debt, fund a portion of our dividends with borrowings or from other sources. future dividends, if any, will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, any competitive or technological developments, our increased need to make capital expenditures, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. for example, if verizon enters our markets, the results of its presence could, over time, significantly reduce our cash available for dividends, both through reduction of our customer and roaming revenues and through the need for us to devote additional cash toward capital expenditures to attempt to remain competitive and/or pay down debt to maintain debt covenant compliance. should we reduce or eliminate dividends, the market price of our common stock may decline.      volatility continued volatility in the price of our common stock would negatively affect us and our stockholders. the trading price of our common stock was volatile during 2010 in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including actual or anticipated variations in quarterly financial results, actual or anticipated variations in our dividend policy, changes in financial expectations by securities analysts and announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. in addition, our financial results or dividend payments may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. broad market and industry factors have also negatively affected the price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance and we do not know how long these adverse market conditions will continue. future volatility in our stock price could materially adversely affect the trading market and prices for our common stock as well as our ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. item 1b. unresolved