item 1a. risk factors we face a variety of risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. the risks described below are not the only ones we face and should be considered in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the sec, including our subsequent reports on forms 10-q and 8-k. additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. if any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. risks relating to our industry the telecommunications industry in alaska is extremely competitive and will become even more competitive when verizon enters the market in 2013. the telecommunications industry in alaska is extremely competitive and will become even more competitive when verizon enters the market. new market entrants make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, which will result in lower revenue, cash flow from operating activities and free cash flow. competition given our limited market size, the impact from increased competition is expected to be material, and will impact our future service and roaming revenue, cash flow from operating activities and free cash flow. our service revenue is generated from monthly charges to our retail customers. should those customers elect to move their wireless service to verizon, our service revenue will decrease. additionally, we have generated roaming revenue by charging certain lower 48 carriers, including verizon, when their customers use their wireless devices on our alaska wireless network. if these carriers build their own network in alaska, we will no longer be able to collect roaming revenue from those carriers. roaming revenue represented 15.0% of our revenues for the twelve months period ended december 31, 2012, but is expected to decline over several years beginning in 2013 as verizon begins providing service through its own facilities. our principal wireline competitor, gci, is the dominant cable television provider in alaska. in consumer markets, gci leverages its dominant cable television position by bundling its cable services with wireline voice, broadband and wireless services. we do not offer video service, and thus, are unable to offer competing bundles. gci holds a dominant position in the alaska voice and data markets, where it owns and operates two of the four existing undersea fiber optic cables connecting alaska to the contiguous states, substantial fiber-optic, microwave and satellite based middle mile network, and has a number of significant contracts with large carrier customers. gci continues to expand its network’s reach, including through its terra southwest project which is funded 50% with a $44 million grant from the usda rural utilities service and, as structured, gives gci a substantial competitive advantage in the markets served by terra southwest. gci has indicated it intends to replicate this government subsidized model in other markets in alaska which will strengthen their overall competitive position. in addition to gci, at&t has an alaska network primarily focused on wireless services, where it is estimated to have over 50% market share. these strong competitive pressures from two large competitors, coupled with the entry of verizon into the alaska market, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, margins and financial condition. wireless device access and cost per device limited device access and increasing cost per device related competition may present continuing challenges to the company. as of april 20, 2012, the company has the ability to provide customers with access to the iphone. the company continues to face significant challenges in competing with the many device and service offerings from dominant, national service providers as they typically have exclusive arrangements to offer the device and superior supply chain access that allows them to stock these devices sooner and in much greater supply than we can. further, consumers increasingly are buying devices such as the iphone, which is considered a high-end device, and along with other comparable models, the cost per device and the associated subsidy we incur by charging our   17 table of contents customers less than the cost of the device, is substantial. national carriers have substantially greater resources to absorb device subsidies than we do and this will put pressure on us to compete effectively in the market. this risk will increase in the event the awn transaction is not consummated. technological advancements and changes in telecommunications standards if we do not adapt to rapid technological advancements and changes in telecommunications standards, our ability to compete could be strained, and as a result, we would lose customers. our success will likely depend on our ability to adapt to rapid technological changes in the telecommunications industry. our failure to adopt a new technology or our choice of one technology over another may have an adverse effect on our ability to compete or meet the demands of our customers. technological changes could, among other things, reduce the barriers to entry facing our competitors providing local service in our service areas. the pace of technology change and our ability to deploy new technologies may be constrained by insufficient capital and/or the need to generate sufficient cash to make interest payments on our debt. new products and services may arise out of technological developments and our inability to keep pace with these developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. some of our competitors may have greater resources to respond to changing technology than we do. if we fail to adapt successfully to technological changes or fail to obtain access to new technologies, we could lose customers and be unable to attract new customers and/or sell new services to our existing customers. we may be unable to successfully deliver new products and services, and we may not generate anticipated revenues from such products or services. we will be required to maintain an on-going investment program to continuously upgrade our access network. we define the access network as the connection from the end user location – either a home or a business – to the first aggregation point in the network. the connection can be copper or fiber and the aggregation point is typically a central office or remote serving node. the access network determines the speeds we are able to deliver to our end customer. we may not be able to maintain the level of investment needed for long term competitiveness in offering broadband speeds to all segments of our market. additionally, our limited access to middle mile infrastructure limits our ability to compete in certain geographic and customer segments in alaska. we define middle mile as the connection between the first aggregation point and the interconnection point to the internet. these are typically high capacity fiber connections and can span hundreds of miles in the case of alaska. it is unlikely that we will have the capital needed for middle mile investments, which will require us to selectively go after customer and market segments where we can be effective competitors. risks relating to our debt substantial debt our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health, financing options and liquidity position. in 2012 we began to reduce the amount of our outstanding debt, but continue to have substantial debt. as of december 31, 2012, we had total debt of $555.4 million. our debt could have important consequences for the holders of our common stock. for example, our substantial debt and the related loan covenants could:     •   require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, and other general corporate purposes;     •   limit our flexibility to plan, adjust or react to changing economic, market or industry conditions, reduce our ability to withstand competitive pressures and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;     •   place us at a competitive disadvantage to many of our competitors who are less leveraged than we are;     •   limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, including strategic acquisitions and other general corporate requirements or hinder us from obtaining such financing on terms favorable to us or at all; or     •   limit our ability to refinance our debt. the terms of our senior credit facility and the terms of our other debt allow us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. if new debt is added, the related risks described above would intensify.   18 table of contents our substantial debt exposes us to adverse changes in interest rates. we entered into floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps to hedge our exposure to interest rate changes. in conjunction with the refinancing of our senior debt on october 21, 2010, we entered into floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps that fixed the interest rates on $385.0 million of notional term loan value at 6.47% for the period june 2012 through september 2015. under the terms of our senior credit facility effective november 1, 2012, the effective fixed rate increases to 6.72% for the period april 2013 through may 2013, to 6.97% for the period june 2013 through july 2013, and to 7.22% for the period august 2013 through september 2015. in conjunction with the amendment to our senior credit facility effective november 1, 2012 and a potential incremental $65.0 million principal payment on the term loan required by the senior credit facility in conjunction with the anticipated consummation of the awn transaction, the company determined that its forward floating-to-fixed interest rate swap in the notional amount of $192.5 million no longer met the effectiveness criteria for hedge accounting treatment. accordingly, hedge accounting treatment was discontinued on this swap effective november 1, 2012, and future changes in its fair value will be recognized as interest expense. amounts recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss from the date of the swap’s inception through october 31, 2012 will be amortized to interest expense over the period of the originally designated hedged variable rate interest payments. we are also subject to credit risk related to our counterparties on the swaps and the interest rate cap and to interest rate fluctuations on interest generated by our debt in excess of the notional term loans referenced above. for more specific information related to our exposure to changes in interest rates and our use of floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, please see “item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.” debt-related financial covenants financial covenants in our debt instruments limit our operating flexibility. our senior credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and adhere to other covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe such actions are in our best interest. substantially all of our assets (including those of our subsidiaries) have been pledged as collateral for our senior credit facility. these include restrictions on our ability to:     •   pay dividends or distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock;     •   issue certain preferred or redeemable capital stock;     •   incur additional debt;     •   create liens;     •   make certain types of investments, loans, advances or other forms of payments;     •   issue, sell or allow distributions on capital stock of specified subsidiaries;     •   prepay or defease specified debt;     •   enter into transactions with affiliates; or     •   merge, consolidate or sell our assets. further, we are required to meet certain financial covenants, reported on a quarterly basis. our ability to meet these covenants is dependent, among other factors, on our achieving targeted results of operations. we may not be able to achieve these targets for a variety of reasons, some of which are beyond our control, including the potential negative impact on our operations that could occur when verizon enters the alaska market. upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior credit facility to be immediately due and payable. such a default or acceleration may allow our other creditors to accelerate our other debt. if the lenders accelerate the payment of the debt under our senior credit facility, our assets may not be sufficient to repay our debts. debt service requirements we require a significant amount of cash to service our debt, fund our growth projects and meet other liquidity needs. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt, including amounts borrowed under our senior credit facility, our 5.75% convertible notes due 2013 (“5.75% notes”) and our 6.25% convertible notes due 2018 (“6.25% notes”), and to fund planned capital expenditures, including strategic acquisitions, if any, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations such that our currently anticipated growth in revenues and cash flow will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable the repayment of our debt, pay dividends or to fund our other liquidity needs.   19 table of contents we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, including the 6.25% notes, on or before maturity. we may not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if we are unable to refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, including:     •   sales of certain assets to meet our debt service requirements;     •   sales of equity; and     •   negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. if we are forced to pursue any of the above options our business and the value of our common stock could be adversely affected. we recently entered into an amendment to our senior credit facility which, among other things, requires us to increase the amount of fixed annual amortization of this facility and prohibits the payment of cash dividends on our common stock until such time our total leverage ratio is not more that 3.50 to 1.00. as of december 31, 2012, our total leverage ratio was 4.42 to 1.00. risks related to our business awn transaction the company may be unable to complete the formation of awn and even if awn is formed, it may not perform as expected. as discussed in “item 1, business,” we entered into a transaction with gci to form a new wireless entity, awn. the rationale for the transaction is also discussed in item 1. we are currently targeting a closing date during the second quarter of 2013. the formation of awn is subject to the satisfaction of conditions to close as set forth above. closing is subject to various regulatory agencies completing their review of the transaction. the timing and outcome of these reviews is difficult to estimate. further, there may be substantial costs to obtaining these consents, and if received, the consents may contain contingencies that could require that gci or acs restructure certain aspects of the transaction. should the company fail to resolve the contingencies, the potential benefits of forming awn may not materialize. if awn is not formed, the company’s financial results may suffer as a result of the transaction costs related to the attempt to form awn. even if awn is formed, it may not be successful in its efforts to integrate, operate, and improve its wireless assets and business processes. awn may not generate sufficient cash flow to pay distributions to the company. even if awn makes cash distributions, those distributions may be less than expected or may otherwise result in the company’s financial results being worse than if awn had not been formed. under the awn operating agreement the owner companies may experience reductions in their distributions from awn if either owner does not maintain certain subscriber connection levels. this provision means that the preferred distributions to acs could be subject to a downward adjustment. during the first four years following consummation of the awn transaction, acs is eligible to receive preferential cash distributions totaling up to $50 million in each of years one and two, and up to $45 million in each of years three and four. after year four, gci and acs will generally receive distributions proportional to their ownership interests. distributions from awn, including the preferred distributions, are subject to the availability of sufficient cash flow which could be reduced by capital or operating cost increases, reduced wholesale revenues, and other factors. distributions payable to acs during the first four years are subject to adjustment if there are certain decreases in acs’s average number of wireless subscribers during a year. in years in which acs fails to maintain required subscriber levels, its distributions in the following year will be reduced by $218.00 per average subscriber shortfall. the adjustments to acs distributions are capped at $21.8 million during the first four years. in the fourth year, gci will be required to pay acs up to $21.8 million to the extent that it has not maintained a certain subscriber level and acs has maintained its subscriber level. the preferred distributions are expected to provide a higher degree of certainty for our future wireless cash flow performance than we otherwise would have been able to generate as a standalone wireless operator assuming verizon’s entry into the market. while the preferred distribution structure significantly mitigates the financial impact of competitive entry, we will continue to have exposure to lower preferred distributions should we not sustain our subscriber connection counts above a certain level.   20 table of contents roaming charges we derive a significant portion of our wireless revenue from roaming charges. this revenue will decline in the future as a result of verizon’s entry into the market and other factors. approximately 15.0% of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 2012 was derived from roaming charges incurred by other wireless providers whose customers traveled within our coverage areas. the revenue we recognize from these roaming charges may in the future be volatile or decline as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. these factors include the strength of the alaska economy and its primary industries, including tourism, general economic factors affecting commerce between alaska and other states and countries, unresolved political matters which may affect public and private spending in alaska and others. for example, our service areas include a number of summer tourist destinations in alaska. as a result, in these areas, our roaming revenue generally increases during summer months and declines during other periods and depends heavily on the number of tourists who visit alaska tourist destinations. in addition, we cannot assure you our roaming agreements with other providers will continue to generate similar roaming revenues. our agreements with other carriers have varying terms of varying length, including some which are terminable on short notice. in the event these roaming agreements expire or are terminated, we may be unable to renegotiate or replace these agreements on similar or acceptable terms. failure to obtain acceptable roaming agreements could lead to a significant decline in our revenue and operating income. lastly, changes in the network footprints of our roaming partners, or those of our competitors who are able to provide roaming coverage in our service areas, could have a material adverse effect on us. for example, when verizon enters the alaska market, we estimate we could ultimately lose most of our roaming revenue. we may also lose roaming revenue from other partners if they moved their roaming relationship to verizon or if we retained the relationship, but the presence of verizon, coupled with our other competitors, pushed down market rates for roaming charges. network access charges revenues from network access charges may be reduced or lost. we received approximately 2.4% and 2.9% of our operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, from local exchange network access charges. the amount of revenue that we receive from these access charges is calculated in accordance with requirements set by the fcc and the rca. any change in these requirements may reduce our revenues and earnings. access charges have consistently decreased in past years. we do not receive access revenue from voip calls and growth of this service will reduce our access revenues. the fcc has actively reviewed new mechanisms for inter-carrier compensation that, in some cases, could eliminate access charges entirely. elimination of access charges would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings. in any event, we believe that new mechanisms for inter-carrier compensation would more likely than not reduce this source of revenue. similarly, the rca has adopted regulations modifying intrastate access charges that may reduce our revenue. in addition, we have periodically been involved in disputes about interstate access revenues. we cannot assure you that claims alleging excess charges will not be made in the future nor whether we would prevail against such claims. regulations new governmental regulations may impose obligations on us to upgrade our existing technology or adopt new technology that may require additional capital and we may not be able to comply in a timely manner with these new regulations. our markets are heavily regulated. we cannot predict the extent to which the government will impose new unfunded mandates on us. such mandates have included those related to emergency location, providing access to hearing-impaired customers, law enforcement assistance and local number portability. each of these government mandates has imposed new requirements for capital that we could not have predicted with any precision. along with these obligations, the fcc has imposed deadlines for compliance with these mandates. we may not be able to provide services that comply with these or other regulatory or other regulatory mandates. further, we cannot predict whether other mandates from the fcc or other regulatory authorities, will occur in the future or the demands they may place on our capital expenditures. for more information on our regulatory environment and the risks it presents to us, see “item 1, business – regulation”. there is a risk that the usf/icc order will materially impact our revenue. the usf/icc order establishes a new frame work to support universal service that will ultimately phase out existing usf support mechanisms that today provide support to carriers, like us, that serve high-cost areas. though the future usf rules remain unclear, we do not expect them to be as favorable to the company as the existing rules and we expect future usf high cost revenue will decrease. we recognized $20.2 million and   21 table of contents $21.1 million in usf revenues to support our wireline operations in high cost areas in the twelve months ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the order eliminates the “identical support” rule that permits competitive carriers, such as acsw and our wireless competitors, to apply for funding based on the support received by the incumbent carrier. the uncertainty in the implementation of the usf/icc order and the shape of follow-on fcc rule making and model development efforts prevents us from accurately measuring the amount of future usf revenue decreases, the amount of any new support the company will qualify to receive, or the financial obligations required to achieve that qualification. in addition, the fcc has imposed strict new compliance requirements governing enrollment of low-income subscribers in the fcc’s lifeline program, which provides carriers like us with usf support to reduce the cost of wireline and wireless services to low-income consumers. for the twelve months ended december 31, 2012, we recognized wireline and wireless lifeline revenue of $6.5 million and $6.3 million, respectively. in part as a result of these rules, the number of lifeline customers we served decreased from 4,399 wireline and 11,715 wireless lifeline customers at december 31, 2011 to 2,794 wireline and 9,106 wireless lifeline customers at december 31, 2012. we expect the amount of lifeline usf support we receive to decrease. going forward, we expect that it will be more difficult for low-income consumers to qualify for lifeline, and to remain enrolled in lifeline, than it was under the former rules. economic conditions the successful operation and growth of our businesses depends heavily on economic conditions in alaska. the vast majority of our customers and operations are located in alaska. due to our geographical concentration, the successful operation and growth of our businesses depends on economic conditions in alaska. the alaska economy, in turn, depends upon many factors, including:     •   the strength of the natural resources industries, particularly oil production and prices;     •   the strength of the alaska tourism industry;     •   the level of government and military spending; and     •   the continued growth of service industries. the customer base for telecommunications services in alaska is small and geographically concentrated. according to alaska department of labor and workforce development estimates, the population of alaska is approximately 732,298 as of july 31, 2012, approximately 41% of whom live in anchorage, fairbanks and juneau. it is estimated that one-third of alaska’s economy is dependent on federal spending, one-third on petroleum and the remaining one-third on drivers such as tourism, mining, timber, seafood, international air cargo and miscellaneous support services. the sector with the greatest decline in 2012, according to the labor department, was the federal government, which lost an estimated 700 jobs. federal government employment in alaska averaged approximately 16,200 during 2012. alaska’s economy is heavily dependent on investment by oil companies, and state tax revenues correlate with the price of oil. during 2012, the price of crude oil continued to exhibit significant volatility. while the near term outlook for alaska’s economy is relatively stable, the state is currently experiencing reduced oil and natural gas production. production of barrels of oil per day declined from 600,704 in 2011 to 549,936 in 2012, or 8.5%. the consideration of potential tax policy changes to stem and reverse this decline is a high priority with both the state legislature and administration. we do not know what the long-term effect on the alaska economy will be. on the positive side, the tourism industry maintains steady progress as the overall national economy stabilizes. visitor volume was up 2% year over year, increasing from 1,556,800 in the summer of 2011 to 1,586,600 in the summer of 2012. erosion of access lines we provide services to many customers over access lines, and if we continue to lose access lines, our revenues, earnings and cash flow from operating activities may decrease. our business generates revenue by delivering voice and data services over access lines. we have experienced net access line loss consistently over the past few years. during the year ended december 31, 2012, the number of access lines we serve declined by 11,466, or 7.1%, with 1,130 of the access line erosion caused by   22 table of contents the changes to the fcc’s lifeline rules, discussed above. we expect to experience net access line loss in our markets for an indefinite period of time. our inability to retain access lines would adversely affect our revenues, earnings and cash flow from operating activities. network / e-911 failure a failure of our network could cause significant delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. to be successful, we will need to continue to provide our customers reliable service over our network. our network and infrastructure are constantly at risk of physical damage as a result of human, natural or other factors. these factors may include pandemics, acts of terrorism, sabotage, natural disasters, power surges or outages, software defects, contractor or vendor failures, labor disputes and other disruptions that may be beyond our control. should we experience a prolonged system failure or a significant service interruption, our customers may choose a different provider and our reputation may be damaged. further, we may not have adequate insurance coverage, which would result in unexpected expense. notably, similar to other undersea fiber optic cable operators, we do not carry insurance that would cover the cost of repair of our undersea cables and, thus, we would bear the full cost of any necessary repairs. a failure of enhanced emergency calling services associated with our network may harm our business. we provide e-911 service to our customers where such service is available. we also contract from time to time with municipalities to upgrade their public safety answering points such that those facilitates become capable of receiving our transmission of a 911 caller’s location information and telephone number. if the emergency call center is unable to process such information, the caller is provided only basic 911 services. in these instances, the emergency caller may be required to verbally advise the operator of such caller’s location at the time of the call. any inability of the answering point to automatically recognize the caller’s location or telephone number, whether or not it occurs as a result of our network operations, may cause us to incur liability or cause our reputation or financial results to suffer. wireless devices wireless devices may pose health and safety risks and driving while using a wireless phone may be prohibited; as a result, demand for our services may decrease. media reports have suggested that, and studies have been undertaken to determine whether, certain radio frequency emissions from wireless devices and cell sites may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer. further, radio frequency emissions may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. if consumers’ health concerns over radio frequency emission increase, they may be discouraged from using wireless devices. in addition, studies have indicated that using wireless devices while driving may impair a driver’s attention. regulators may impose or increase restrictions on the location and operation of cell sites or increase regulation on the use of devices, and wireless providers may be exposed to litigation. our fleet management service allows for the remote starting of vehicles. in certain situations this could result in injuries or damages for which we may be exposed to litigation. new government regulations in any of these matters may adversely affect our results of operations. labor labor costs and the terms of our principal collective bargaining agreement may hurt our ability to remain competitive, which could cause our financial performance to suffer. labor costs are a significant component of our expenses and, as of december 31, 2012, approximately 69% of our workforce is represented by the ibew. we believe our labor costs are higher than our competitors who employ a non-unionized workforce because we are required to contribute to the ibew health and welfare trust for benefit programs, including defined benefit pension plans and health benefit plans, at rates that are substantially higher than we would for a non-represented workforce. in addition, we may make strategic and operational decisions that require the consent of the ibew. the ibew may not provide consent when we need it, or it may require additional wages, benefits or other consideration be paid in return for its consent. furthermore, work rules under the existing agreement limit our ability to efficiently manage our resources and make the incremental cost of work performed outside normal work hours relatively high. our current cba with the ibew that is in effect until december 31, 2015, includes provisions that allow us to consider cost-effective alternatives to current operating models. however, the process described in the cba is new for both parties, and may not provide the flexibility we need to manage our operating cost structures.   23 table of contents our primary in-state competitor, gci, does not use union labor and we believe their overall cost of labor is lower than our cost. we cannot assure you that our labor costs will ever become competitive. in addition, the ibew has brought and may continue to bring grievances to binding arbitration. the ibew may also bring court actions and may seek to compel us to engage in the bargaining processes where we believe we have no such obligation. if successful, there is a risk these judicial or arbitral avenues could create additional costs that we did not anticipate. vendors we rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of equipment and services for our network infrastructure and customer support services. if these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain the equipment and services we require to operate our business successfully. we depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services for our network and certain customer services. if suppliers of our equipment or providers of services on which we rely experience financial difficulties, service or billing interruptions, patent litigation or other problems, subscriber growth and our operating results could suffer. suppliers that use proprietary technology, including cdma and lte technology, as an integral component of our network, effectively lock us into one or a few suppliers for key network components. other suppliers require us to maintain exclusive relationships under a contract. as a result, we have become reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers and one wireless billing service provider. in the event it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement suppliers or vendors on economically attractive terms on a timely basis, or at all, which could increase costs and may cause disruption in service. networks, monitoring centers and data hosting facilities maintaining the company’s networks, around the clock monitoring centers and data hosting facilities requires significant capital expenditures, and our inability or failure to maintain and upgrade our networks and data centers would have a material impact on our market share and ability to generate revenue. the company currently operates an extensive network that includes monitoring and hosting facilities. to provide contractual levels of service to our customers and remain competitive, we must expend significant amounts of capital. in many cases, we must rely on outside vendors whose performance and costs may not be sufficiently within our control. additionally, other alaska and national wireless carriers are upgrading their networks with various technologies including 4g. our full implementation of 4g technology will likely take several years and the company may lag behind competitors. if we cannot adequately maintain and upgrade our network, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, margins and financial condition. back-office information technology systems a failure of back-office it systems could adversely affect the company’s results of operations and financial condition. the efficient operation of the company’s business depends on back-office it systems. the company relies on back-office it systems, including certain systems provided by third party vendors, to effectively manage customer billing, business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment and other business processes. some of these systems are no longer supported under maintenance agreements from the underlying vendor. a failure of the company’s it systems, or the it systems provided by third party vendors, to perform as anticipated could disrupt the company’s business and result in a failure to collect accounts receivable, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing the company’s reputation and results of operations to suffer. in addition, it systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond the company’s control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, security breaches and viruses. any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, margins and financial condition. cyber-attacks may damage our networks or breach customer proprietary data, leading to service disruption, harm to reputation, loss of customers, and litigation over privacy violations.   24 table of contents all industries that rely on technology in customer interactions are increasingly at risk for cyber-attacks. a cyber-attack could be levied against our network, causing disruption of operations and service, requiring implementation of greater network security measures, and resulting in lost revenue due to lost service. a cyber-attack could also be targeted to infiltrate customer proprietary data, breaching customer privacy, resulting in misuse of customer information, and possibly leading to litigation over privacy breaches and causing harm to the company’s reputation. we rely on network monitoring, immediate notification of internal it staff and it management, and customer verification methods to guard against cyber-attacks. we also conduct periodic audits with external resources for verification and validation. we have established procedures to aid in discovering potential cyber-attacks and processes for notifying customers and any appropriate authorities in the event of a cyber-attack that impacts services or customer proprietary information. undersea fiber optic cable systems if failures occur in our undersea fiber optic cable systems, our ability to immediately restore our service may be limited. our undersea fiber optic cable systems carry a large portion of our traffic to and from the contiguous lower 48 states. if a failure occurs and we are not able to secure alternative facilities, some of the communications services we offer to our customers could be interrupted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. intellectual property third parties may claim that the company is infringing upon their intellectual property, and the company could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products. although the company does not believe that any of its products or services infringe upon the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, the company may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of its technology, products or services. any litigation growing out of third party patents or other intellectual property claims could be costly and time consuming and could divert the company’s management and key personnel from its business operations. the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. resolution of claims of intellectual property infringement might also require the company to enter into costly license agreements. likewise, the company may not be able to obtain license agreements on acceptable terms. the company also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of its products. further, the company often relies on licenses of third party intellectual property for its businesses. the company cannot ensure these licenses will be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. if any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, margins and financial condition. pension and deferred compensation plans we may incur substantial and unexpected liabilities arising out of our pension and deferred compensation plans. our post-retirement benefits, pension, and deferred compensation plans could result in substantial liabilities on our balance sheet. these plans and activities have and will generate substantial cash requirements for us and these requirements may increase beyond our expectations in future years based on changing market conditions. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension, other post-retirement and post-employment benefit plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plans. in the future, we may be required to make additional contributions to our defined benefit plan. plan liabilities may impair our liquidity, have an unfavorable impact on our ability to obtain financing and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors who do not have such liabilities and cash requirements. our most significant pension plan is the alaska electrical pension fund (the “aepf”) in which we participate on behalf of substantially all of our employees. the aepf is a multi-employer pension plan to which we make fixed, per employee contributions through our collective bargaining agreement with the ibew, which covers our ibew represented workforce, and a special agreement, which covers most of our non-represented workforce.because our contribution requirements are fixed, we cannot easily adjust our annual plan contributions to address our own financial circumstances. currently, this plan is not fully funded, which means we may be   25 table of contents subject to increased contribution obligations, penalties, and ultimately we could incur a contingent withdrawal liability should we choose to withdraw from the aepf for economic reasons. our contingent withdrawal liability is an amount based on our pro-rata share among aepf participants of the value of the funding shortfall. this contingent liability becomes due and payable by us if we terminate our participation in the aepf. moreover, if another participant in the aepf goes bankrupt, we would become liable for a pro-rata share of the bankrupt participant’s vested, but unpaid, liability for accrued benefits for that participant’s employees. this could result in a substantial unexpected contribution requirement and making such a contribution could have a material adverse effect on our cash position and other financial results. these sources of potential liability are difficult to predict. given the complexity of pension-related matters we may not, in every instance, be in full compliance with applicable requirements. key members of senior management we depend on key members of our senior management team. our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our senior management team as well as our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management and technical personnel. there is intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry and we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. our remote location also presents a challenge to us in attracting new talent. if we lose one or more of our key employees, our ability to successfully implement our business plan could be materially adversely affected. we do not maintain any “key person” insurance on any of our personnel. future acquisitions future acquisitions could result in operating and financial difficulties. our future growth may depend, in part, on acquisitions. to the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we will face the operational and financial risks that commonly accompany that strategy. we would also face operational risks, such as failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, disrupting their ongoing businesses, increasing the complexity of our business, and impairing management resources and management’s relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in their ownership and management. further, the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, as well as the integration of an acquired business, may divert management time and other resources. some acquisitions may not be successful and their performance may result in the impairment of their carrying value. risks related to the on-going irs audit we are subject to a significant on-going irs audit, which could, in the event we prove unable to effectively enforce the indemnification obligations of third parties, require us to pay significant amounts. as discussed in “item 3, legal proceedings,” the irs issued a notice of proposed adjustment (“nopa”) on april 19, 2010 with respect to the 2006, 2007 and 2008 taxable years of crest communications corporation (“crest”), which was acquired by the company on october 30, 2008. in that notice, the irs asserts that advances made to entities which crest acquired out of bankruptcy in 2002 should be characterized as debt for tax purposes. crest had characterized the advances as equity for tax purposes. the irs asserts that debt characterization resulted in cancellation of indebtedness income. on november 2, 2010, the irs issued a revised nopa in which it continued to assert that the advances referenced above are debt for tax purposes and seeks to impose penalties in respect of the asserted income tax deficiencies. in addition, the revised notice asserts that the method employed by the same entities acquired by crest to determine cost of goods sold related to the sales of indefeasible rights of use was unreasonable and that the entities inappropriately depreciated basis in “dark fiber.” on may 31, 2011, the irs issued a 30-day letter and revenue agent’s report which restated the irs’s position in the nopas while adding certain additional adjustments. in the third quarter of 2011, the irs sent a rebuttal letter to the company’s responses to the nopa discussed above. the case has been submitted to the irs appeals office and a hearing was held on july 19, 2012. should the appeals process fail to overturn the proposed adjustments; should we be unable to preserve the corporate structure of the crest subsidiaries; should we be proven unable to effectively enforce the indemnification provisions in the stock purchase agreement; or should any amounts owed exceed the indemnity obligation, or our ability to pay; this could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.   26 table of contents volatility risks related to our common stock continued volatility in the price of our common stock would negatively affect us and our stockholders. the trading price of our common stock was volatile during 2012 in response to a number of factors, including the elimination of our quarterly dividend. additional factors, many of which are beyond our control, include actual or anticipated variations in quarterly financial results, changes in financial expectations by securities analysts and announcements by our current and future competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. in addition, our financial results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. broad market and industry factors have also negatively affected the price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance and we do not know how long these adverse market conditions will continue. future volatility in our stock price could materially adversely affect the trading market and prices for our common stock as well as our ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. location specific risk we operate in remote areas subject to geologic instability and other natural events which could negatively impact our operations. many of our operations are located in areas that are prone to earthquakes, fires, and other natural disturbance. many of these areas have limited emergency response assets and may be difficult to reach in an emergency situation. should an event occur, it could be weeks or longer before remediation efforts could be implemented, if they could be implemented at all. the scope and risk of such an event occurring is difficult to gauge. item 1b. unresolved