item 1a. risk factors we depend on the sale of the invisalign system for the vast majority of our revenues, and any decline in sales of invisalign for any reason, including as a result of changes to the proficiency program, a continued weakness in general economic conditions, or a decline in average selling prices would adversely affect revenues, gross margin and net profits. we expect that revenues from the sale of the invisalign system will continue to account for the vast majority of our total revenues for the foreseeable future.  continued and widespread market acceptance of invisalign by orthodontists, gps and consumers is critical to our future success.  if orthodontists and gps experience a reduction in consumer demand for orthodontic services, if consumers prove unwilling to adopt invisalign as rapidly as we anticipate or in the volume that we anticipate, if orthodontists or gps choose to use a competitive product rather than invisalign or if the average selling price of our product declines, our operating results would be harmed.  factors that could cause the adoption of invisalign to occur at a lower rate than we expect, as well as the risk related to declining average selling prices are described more fully below. consumers may not adopt invisalign as rapidly as we anticipate due to a variety of factors including a continued weakness in general economic conditions. consumer spending habits are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, gas prices, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions.  a general slowdown in the united states economy and certain international economies or an uncertain economic outlook would adversely affect consumer spending habits which may, among other things, result in a decrease in the number of overall orthodontic case starts or a reduction in the demand for invisalign generally either of which would have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results.  in addition, invisalign represents a significant change from traditional orthodontic treatment, and consumers may be reluctant to accept it or may not find it preferable to traditional treatment.  we have generally received positive feedback from orthodontists, gps and consumers regarding invisalign as both an alternative to braces and as a clinical method for treatment of malocclusion, but a number of dental professionals believe that invisalign is appropriate for only a limited percentage of their patients.  increased market acceptance will depend in part upon the recommendations of dental professionals, as well as other factors including effectiveness, safety, ease of use, reliability, aesthetics, greater comfort and hygiene compared to traditional orthodontic products and price for invisalign compared to competing products. orthodontists and gps may not adopt invisalign in sufficient numbers or as rapidly as we anticipate for a number of reasons, including, changes to the proficiency program or as a result of increased competition. our success depends upon increasing acceptance and frequency of use of the invisalign system by dental professionals (what we refer to as utilization).  in april 2010, we eliminated the case start requirements and in october 2010 we eliminated the annual ce requirements, effectively terminating the proficiency program.  we may experience variability in customer activity over the next several quarters as doctors adjust to the changes to the proficiency program requirements.  in addition, increased competition from direct competitors could cause us to lose market share and reduce dental professionals’ efforts and commitment to expand their invisalign practice.  if adoption does not increase as we anticipate for any reason, our revenues may fail to grow as expected and our operating results may be harmed. the frequency of use by orthodontists or gps may not increase at the rate that we anticipate or at all. one of our key objectives is to continue to increase utilization, or the adoption and frequency of use, of the invisalign system by new and existing customers.  if utilization of invisalign by our existing and newly trained orthodontists or gps does not occur or does not occur as quickly as we anticipate, our operating results could be harmed.   21 table of contents we may experience declines in average selling prices of our products. in response to challenges in our business, including increased competition, we have in the past reduced the list price of our products.  we also provide volume based discount programs to our doctors.  in addition, we sell a number of products at different list prices.  if we introduce any price reductions, or consumer rebate programs, expand our discount programs in the future, if participation in these programs increases, if our product mix shifts to lower priced products or newer products that have a higher percentage of deferred revenue, or if sales by our international distributors, particularly in the asia-pacific region, grows at a faster pace than our direct sales, our average selling price would be adversely affected and our revenues, gross margin and net profits (losses) may be reduced.  furthermore, although the u.s. dollar is our reporting currency, a portion of our revenues and profits are generated in foreign currencies.  revenues and profits generated by subsidiaries operating outside of the united states are translated into u.s. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period and are affected by changes in exchange rates.  as a result, negative movements in currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar will adversely affect our average selling price and consequently the amount of revenues and profits in our consolidated financial statements. as we continue to grow, we are subject to growth related risks, including risks related to capacity constraints at our existing facilities. we are subject to growth-related risks, including capacity constraints and pressure on our internal systems and personnel.  in order to manage current operations and future growth effectively, we will need to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems and to hire, train, motivate, manage and retain employees.  we may be unable to manage such growth effectively.  any such failure could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and prospects.  in addition, in order to meet the demands from expected volumes and continued international expansion, we intend to open a new manufacturing facility outside of north america by the end of 2011.  our ability to plan, construct and equip additional manufacturing facilities is subject to significant risk and uncertainty, including risks inherent in the establishment of a new manufacturing facility, such as:     •   hiring and retaining employees;     •   delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, any of which may be out of our control, such as:     •   labor shortages and disputes;     •   delays in government approvals;     •   delays in the customization, delivery and installation of equipment; and     •   production start-up problems;     •   implementing, integrating and improving operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including our computer systems; and     •   managing expanding operations in multiple locations and multiple time zones. if the opening of this facility is significantly delayed or demand for our product in 2011 exceeds our current expectations, we may not be able to fulfill orders timely, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business.  conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may harm our financial results. if we fail to sustain or increase profitability or revenue growth in future periods, the market price for our common stock may decline. if we are to sustain or increase profitability in future periods, we will need to continue to increase our revenues, while controlling our expenses.  because our business is evolving, it is difficult to predict our future   22 table of contents operating results or levels of growth, and we have in the past not been and may in the future not be able to sustain our historical growth rates.  if we do not increase profitability or revenue growth or otherwise meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. our financial results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future which may cause volatility in our stock price. our operating results have fluctuated in the past and we expect our future quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate as we focus on increasing doctor and consumer demand for our products.  these fluctuations could cause our stock price to decline.  some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include:     •   limited visibility into and difficulty predicting the level of activity in our customers’ practices from quarter to quarter;     •   weakness in consumer spending as a result of the slowdown in the united states economy and global economies;     •   changes in the timing of receipt of case product orders during a given quarter which, given our cycle time and the delay between case receipts and case shipments, could have an impact on which quarter revenue can be recognized;     •   fluctuations in currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar;     •   changes in product mix;     •   if participation in our customer rebate program increases our average selling price will be adversely affected;     •   seasonal fluctuations in the number of doctors in their offices and their availability to take appointments;     •   success of or changes to our marketing programs from quarter to quarter;     •   changes in the timing of when revenue is recognized, including as a result of the introduction of new products or promotions or as a result of changes to critical accounting estimates or new accounting pronouncements;     •   changes to our effective tax rate;     •   unanticipated delays in production caused by insufficient capacity;     •   any disruptions in the manufacturing process, including unexpected turnover in the labor force or the introduction of new production processes, power outages or natural or other disasters beyond our control;     •   the development and marketing of directly competitive products by existing and new competitors;     •   aggressive price competition from competitors;     •   costs and expenditures in connection with litigation;     •   disruptions to our business due to the impact of an epidemic that results in changes in consumer spending habits, consumers unable or unwilling to visit the orthodontist or general practitioners office, as well as any impact on workforce absenteeism;     •   inaccurate forecasting of revenues, production and other operating costs; and     •   investments in research and development to develop new products and enhancements to invisalign.   23 table of contents to respond to these and other factors, we may need to make business decisions that could adversely affect our operating results such as modifications to our pricing policy, business structure or operations.  most of our expenses, such as employee compensation and lease payment obligations, are relatively fixed in the short term.  moreover, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenue levels.  as a result, if our revenues for a particular period fall below our expectations, whether caused by changes in consumer spending, consumer preferences, weakness in the u.s. or global economies, changes in customer behavior related to advertising and prescribing our product, or other factors, we may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any shortfall in revenues.  due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful.  you should not rely on our results for any one quarter as an indication of our future performance. our future success may depend on our ability to develop, successfully introduce and achieve market acceptance of new products. our future success may depend on our ability to develop, manufacture, market, and obtain regulatory approval or clearance of new products.  we launched invisalign teen in july 2008 and invisalign assist in october 2008.  in october 2010, we introduced invisalign g3, a collection of new features and innovations that touch every product and virtually every system at align.  there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, sell and achieve market acceptance of these and other new products and applications and enhanced versions of our existing product.  the extent of, and rate at which, market acceptance and penetration are achieved by future products is a function of many variables, which include, among other things, our ability to include functionality and features that address customer requirements, compatibility of our computer operating systems and hardware configurations with customers, the availability of third-party reimbursement of procedures using our new products, the existence of competing products and general economic conditions affecting purchasing patterns.  in addition, even if our new products are successfully introduced, it is unlikely that they will rapidly gain market share and acceptance primarily due to the relatively long period of time it takes to successfully treat a patient.  since it takes approximately 12 to 24 months to treat a patient, our customers may be unwilling to rapidly adopt our new products until they successfully complete at least one case or until more historical clinical results are available. our ability to market and sell new products may also be subject to government regulation, including approval or clearance by the united states food and drug administration (“fda”), and foreign government agencies.  any failure in our ability to successfully develop and introduce or achieve market acceptance of our new products or enhanced versions of existing products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and could cause our revenues to decline. a disruption in the operations of our primary freight carrier or higher shipping costs could cause a decline in our revenues or a reduction in our earnings. we are dependent on commercial freight carriers, primarily ups, to deliver our products.  if the operations of these carriers are disrupted for any reason, we may be unable to deliver our products to our customers on a timely basis.  if we cannot deliver our products in an efficient and timely manner, our customers may reduce their orders from us and our revenues and operating profits could materially decline.  in a rising fuel cost environment, our freight costs will increase.  if freight costs materially increase and we are unable to pass that increase along to our customers for any reason or otherwise offset such increases in our cost of revenues, our gross margin and financial results could be adversely affected. we are dependent on our international operations, which exposes us to foreign operational, political and other risks that may harm our business. our key production steps are performed in operations located outside of the u.s.  at our facility in costa rica, technicians use a sophisticated, internally developed computer-modeling program to prepare digital treatment plans, which are then transmitted electronically to juarez, mexico.  these digital files form the basis of   24 table of contents the clincheck treatment plan and are used to manufacture aligner molds.  our order acquisition, aligner fabrication and shipping operations are conducted in juarez, mexico.  in addition to the research and development efforts conducted in our san jose, california facility, we also carry out research and development at locations in san jose, costa rica and moscow, russia.  in addition, our customer-care, accounts receivable, credit and collections and customer event registration organizations are located at our facility in costa rica.  our reliance on international operations exposes us to risks and uncertainties that may affect our business or results of operation, including:     •   difficulties in hiring and retaining employees generally, as well as difficulties in hiring and retaining employees with the necessary skills to perform the more technical aspects of our operations;     •   difficulties in managing international operations;     •   fluctuations in currency exchange rates;     •   import and export license requirements and restrictions;     •   controlling production volume and quality of the manufacturing process;     •   political, social and economic instability, including as a result of increased levels of violence in juarez, mexico;     •   acts of terrorism and acts of war;     •   interruptions and limitations in telecommunication services;     •   product or material transportation delays or disruption, including as a result of health epidemics restricting travel to and from mexico or as a result of natural disasters, such as earthquakes or volcanic eruptions;     •   burdens of complying with a wide variety of local country and regional laws;     •   trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; and     •   potential adverse tax consequences. if any of these risks materialize in the future, we could experience production delays and lost or delayed revenue. a key step in our manufacturing process relies on sophisticated computer technology that requires new technicians to undergo a relatively long training process.  if we are unable to accurately predict our volume growth, and fail to hire a sufficient number of technicians in advance of such demand, the delivery time of our products could be delayed which could adversely affect our results of operations. training technicians to use our sophisticated computer modeling program that produces the digital treatment plan that forms the basis of clincheck takes approximately 90 to 120 days.  as a result, if we are unable to accurately predict our volume growth, we may not have a sufficient number of trained technicians to timely create clincheck treatment plans within the timeframe our customers expect.  any delay in clincheck processing time could delay the ultimate delivery of finished aligners to our customers.  such a delay could cause us to lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers.  this could cause a decline in our revenues and net profits and could adversely affect our results of operations. our headquarters, digital dental modeling processes, and other manufacturing processes are all principally located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. our digital dental modeling is processed in our facility located in san jose, costa rica.  the operations team in costa rica creates clincheck treatment plans using sophisticated computer software.  in addition, our customer facing operations are located in costa rica.  our aligner molds and finished aligners are fabricated in   25 table of contents juarez, mexico.  both costa rica and mexico are in earthquake zones and may be subject to other natural disasters.  if there is a major earthquake or any other natural disaster in a region where one of these facilities is located, our ability to create clincheck treatment plans, respond to customer inquiries or manufacture and ship our aligners could be compromised which could result in our customers experiencing a significant delay in receiving their completed aligners and a decrease in service levels for a period of time.  in addition, our headquarters facility is located in the san francisco bay area.  an earthquake or other natural disaster in this region could result in a disruption in our operations.  any such business interruption could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we experience competition from manufacturers of traditional braces and expect aggressive competition from these and other companies that may introduce new technologies in the future. currently, our invisalign product competes directly against products manufactured and distributed by ormco orthodontics, a division of sybron dental specialties (a danaher corporation subsidiary), and traditional braces manufactured by 3m’s unitek and dentsply international.  these manufacturers have substantially greater financial resources and manufacturing and marketing experience than we do and may, in the future, attempt to develop an orthodontic system similar to ours or combine technologies that make our product economically unattractive.  large consumer product companies may also enter the orthodontic supply market.  furthermore, we may face competition in the future from new companies that may introduce new technologies.  we may be unable to compete with these competitors and one or more of these competitors may render our technology obsolete or economically unattractive.  if we are unable to compete effectively with existing products or respond effectively to any products developed by new or existing competitors, our business could be harmed.  increased competition has resulted in the past and may in the future result in volume discounting and price reductions, reduced gross margins, reduced profitability and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, volume growth, net profit (losses) and stock price.  we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our information technology systems are critical to our business.  system integration and implementation issues and system security risks could disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems.  all information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources.  as our business has grown in size and complexity, the growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our information technology systems.  to effectively manage this growth, we will need to continually upgrade and enhance our information systems.  in addition, experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns.  furthermore, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we either internally develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design and manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system.  the costs to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions that may have a material adverse impact on our operations, revenues and operating results. we are currently focused on adding more functionality into our business enterprise systems to more efficiently integrate these systems with our other system applications, such as customer facing and manufacturing tools, and intend to continue this effort for the foreseeable future.  system upgrades and enhancements, including those upgrades and enhancements associated with the launch in the fall of 2010 of invisalign g3 that touched every product and virtually each of our systems, require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable employee resources.  delays in integration or disruptions to our business from implementation of these new or upgraded systems could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results.  furthermore, we continuously upgrade our customer facing software applications, specifically the   26 table of contents clincheck software and the invisalign doctor site.  software applications frequently contain errors or defects, especially when they are first introduced or when new versions are released.  the discovery of a defect or error or the incompatibility with the computer operating system and hardware configurations of customers in a new upgraded version or the failure of our primary information systems may result in the following consequences, among others: loss of revenue or delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation or increased service costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, and if we are unable to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may be harmed.  litigating claims of this type is costly and could distract our management and cause a decline in our results of operations and stock price. our success will depend in part on our ability to maintain existing intellectual property and to obtain and maintain further intellectual property protection for our products, both in the u.s. and in other countries.  our inability to do so could harm our competitive position.  as of december 31, 2010, we had 152 issued u.s. patents, 136 pending u.s. patent applications, and 75 issued foreign patents, and 128 pending foreign patent applications. we intend to rely on our portfolio of issued and pending patent applications in the u.s. and in other countries to protect a large part of our intellectual property and our competitive position.  however, our currently pending or future patent filings may not result in the issuance of patents.  additionally, any patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable, circumvented, or may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products similar in design to our products.  in addition, any protection afforded by foreign patents may be more limited than that provided under u.s. patents and intellectual property laws.  we also rely on protection of our copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and proprietary information.  we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and our collaborative partners upon commencement of a relationship with us.  however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection against the unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or other confidential information, and adequate remedies may not exist if unauthorized use or disclosure were to occur.  our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology through patents, copyrights or trade secrets would impair our competitive advantages and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects.  in particular, a failure to protect our proprietary rights might allow competitors to copy our technology, which could adversely affect our pricing and market share.  in addition, in an effort to protect our intellectual property we have in the past been and may in the future be involved in litigation.  the potential effects on our business operations resulting from litigation that we may participate in the future, whether or not ultimately determined in our favor or settled by us, are costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from normal business operations. litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings could occur.  an unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases where injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from selling our products.  any of these results from our litigation could adversely affect our results of operations and stock price. while we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. pursuant to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the sec, we are required to furnish in our form 10-k an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.  the report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective.  this assessment must include   27 table of contents disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management.  while we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls to future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls or conclude that our internal controls are ineffective), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may be unable to pursue business opportunities or develop our products. we are highly dependent on the key employees in our clinical engineering, technology development, sales and marketing personnel and management teams.  the loss of the services provided by those individuals may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our product development and other business objectives and could harm our business.  our future success will also depend on our ability to identify, recruit, train and retain additional qualified personnel, including orthodontists.  few orthodontists are accustomed to working in a manufacturing environment since they are generally trained to work in private practices, universities and other research institutions.  thus, we may be unable to attract and retain personnel with the advanced qualifications necessary for the further development of our business.  furthermore, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel or their services.  if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be materially harmed. if we infringe the patents or proprietary rights of other parties or are subject to a patent infringement claim, our ability to grow our business may be severely limited. extensive litigation over patents and other intellectual property rights is common in the medical device industry.  we have been sued for infringement of third party’s patents in the past and we may be the subject of patent or other litigation in the future.  from time to time, we have received and may in the future receive letters from third parties drawing our attention to their patent rights.  while we do not believe that we infringe upon any valid and enforceable rights that have been brought to our attention, there may be other more pertinent rights of which we are presently unaware.  the defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel.  an adverse determination of any litigation or interference proceeding to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities.  an adverse determination of this nature could also put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly or require us to seek licenses from third parties.  licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, in which event, our business would be materially adversely affected. we maintain single supply relationships for certain of our key machines and materials technologies, and our business and operating results could be harmed if supply is restricted or ends or the price of raw materials used in our manufacturing process increases. we are highly dependent on manufacturers of specialized scanning equipment, rapid prototyping machines, resin and other advanced materials.  we maintain single supply relationships for many of these machines and materials technologies.  in particular, our scanning and stereolithography equipment are provided by a single supplier.  we are also committed to purchasing all of our resin and polymer, the primary raw materials used in our manufacturing process, from a single source.  in addition, technology changes by our vendors could disrupt access to required manufacturing capacity or require expensive, time consuming development efforts to adapt and integrate new equipment or processes.  our growth may exceed the capacity of one or more of these   28 table of contents manufacturers to produce the needed equipment and materials in sufficient quantities to support our growth.  in the event of technology changes, delivery delays, or shortages of or increases in price for these items, our business and growth prospects may be harmed. we rely on our direct sales force to sell our products, and any failure to maintain our direct sales force could harm our business. our ability to sell our products and generate revenues depends upon our direct sales force within our north american and international markets.  as of december 31, 2010, our north american sales organization consisted of 171 people, of which 134 were quota carrying sales representatives and 37 were regional sales managers and administration.  internationally, we had 54 people engaged in sales and sales support as of december 31, 2010.  we do not have any long-term employment contracts with the members of our direct sales force.  the loss of the services provided by these key personnel may harm our business.  if we are unable to retain our direct sales force personnel or replace them with individuals of equivalent technical expertise and qualifications, or if we are unable to successfully instill such technical expertise or if we fail to establish strong relationships with our customers within a relatively short period of time, our revenues and our ability to maintain market share could be materially harmed.  in addition, due to our large and fragmented customer base, we may not be able to provide all of our customers with product support immediately upon the launch of a new product.  as a result, adoption of new products by our customers may be slower than anticipated and our ability to grow market share and increase our revenues may be harmed. complying with regulations enforced by the fda and other regulatory authorities is an expensive and time-consuming process, and any failure to comply could result in substantial penalties. our products are medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the u.s. and internationally.  fda regulations are wide ranging and govern, among other things:     •   product design, development, manufacturing and testing;     •   product labeling;     •   product storage;     •   pre-market clearance or approval;     •   advertising and promotion; and     •   product sales and distribution. our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the fda or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions:     •   warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;     •   repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products;     •   operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production;     •   refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products;     •   withdrawing clearance or pre-market approvals that have already been granted; and     •   criminal prosecution. if any of these events were to occur, they could harm our business.  we must comply with facility registration and product listing requirements of the fda and adhere to applicable quality system regulations.  the fda enforces its quality system regulations through periodic unannounced inspections.  for   29 table of contents instance, on november 18, 2010, we received a warning letter from the fda, which requested additional documentation relating to our written implemented corrective actions to our complaint and medical device reporting procedures.  we responded to the warning letter on november 22, 2010, and we are working closely with the fda to address their concerns and close the matter.  should we fail to promptly and fully address the issues listed in the warning letter may result in further regulatory sanctions, including additional warning letters, adverse publicity, refusal to clear or approve applications for new or modified products, injunctions, fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution.  any fda enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. before we can sell a new medical device in the u.s., or market a new use of or claim for an existing product we must obtain fda clearance or approval, unless an exemption applies.  obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals can be a lengthy and time-consuming process.  even though the devices we market have obtained the necessary clearances from the fda, we may be unable to maintain such clearances in the future.  furthermore, we may be unable to obtain the necessary clearances for new devices that we intend to market in the future.  our inability to maintain or obtain regulatory clearances or approvals could materially harm our business. if the security of our customer and patient information is compromised, patient care could suffer, and we could be liable for related damages, and our reputation could be impaired. we retain confidential customer and patient information in our processing centers.  therefore, it is critical that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and that our facilities and infrastructure are perceived by the marketplace and our customers to be secure.  despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems.  if we fail to meet our clients’ expectations regarding the security of healthcare information, we could be liable for damages and our reputation could be impaired.  in addition, patient care could suffer, and we could be liable if our systems fail to deliver correct information in a timely manner.  our insurance may not protect us from this risk. if compliance with healthcare regulations becomes costly and difficult for our customers or for us, we may not be able to grow our business. participants in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive and frequently changing regulations under numerous laws administered by governmental entities at the federal, state and local levels, some of which are, and others of which may be, applicable to our business.  in response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, congress recently passed health care reform legislation that president obama signed into law in march 2010.  the enacted legislation contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions.  the most relevant of these provisions are those that impose fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers.  beginning in 2013, each medical device manufacturer will have to pay an excise tax in an amount equal to 2.3 percent of the price for which such manufacturer sells its medical devices.  this tax applies to all medical devices, including our products.  these taxes, will result in a significant increase in the tax burden on our industry, which could have a material, negative impact on our results of operations and our cash flows. furthermore, our healthcare provider customers are also subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations that could affect the nature and scope of their relationships with us.  the healthcare market itself is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences.  regulations implemented pursuant to the health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa), including regulations affecting the security and privacy of patient healthcare information held by healthcare providers and their business associates may require us to make significant and unplanned enhancements of software applications or services, result in delays or cancellations of orders, or result in the revocation of endorsement of our products and services by healthcare participants.  the effect of hipaa and newly enforced regulations on our business is difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will adequately address the business risks created by hipaa and its implementation or that we will be able to take advantage of any resulting business opportunities.   30 table of contents extensive and changing government regulation of the healthcare industry may be expensive to comply with and exposes us to the risk of substantial government penalties. in addition to medical device laws and regulations, numerous state and federal healthcare-related laws regulate our business, covering areas such as:     •   storage, transmission and disclosure of medical information and healthcare records;     •   prohibitions against the offer, payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals to entities providing healthcare services or goods or to induce the order, purchase or recommendation of our products; and     •   the marketing and advertising of our products. complying with these laws and regulations could be expensive and time-consuming, and could increase our operating costs or reduce or eliminate certain of our sales and marketing activities or our revenues. we face risks related to our international sales, including the need to obtain necessary foreign regulatory clearance or approvals.   we currently sell our products in europe, asia pacific, latin america and japan and may expand into other countries from time to time.  we do not know whether orthodontists, gps and consumers outside our north american market will adopt invisalign in sufficient numbers or as rapidly as we anticipate.  in addition, sales of our products outside the u.s.  are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country.  the time required to obtain clearances or approvals required by other countries may be longer than that required for fda clearance or approval, and requirements for such approvals may differ from fda requirements.  we may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals in one or more of the other countries in which we do business or in which we may do business in the future.  we may also incur significant costs in attempting to obtain and maintain foreign regulatory approvals.  if we experience delays in receipt of approvals to market our products outside of the u.s., or if we fail to receive these approvals, we may be unable to market our products or enhancements in international markets in a timely manner, if at all. our business exposes us to potential product liability claims, and we may incur substantial expenses if we are subject to product liability claims or litigation. medical devices involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity.  we may be held liable if any product we develop or any product that uses or incorporates any of our technologies causes injury or is otherwise found unsuitable.  although we intend to continue to maintain product liability insurance, adequate insurance may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities.  a product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs.  these costs would have the effect of increasing our expenses and diverting management’s attention away from the operation of our business, and could harm our business. historically, the market price for our common stock has been volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control.  the factors include:     •   quarterly variations in our results of operations and liquidity;     •   changes in recommendations by the investment community or in their estimates of our revenues or operating results;     •   speculation in the press or investment community concerning our business and results of operations;     •   strategic actions by our competitors, such as product announcements or acquisitions;   31 table of contents   •   announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our customers or competitors; and     •   general economic market conditions. in addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology and medical device companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies.  these broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.  historically, class action litigation is often brought against an issuing company following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities.  a securities class action suit was filed against us on behalf of all persons or entities who purchased our common stock between january 30, 2007 and october 24, 2007.  while we believe the lawsuit is without merit and intend to vigorously defend ourselves, we could incur substantial legal fees, and our management’s attention and resources may be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation. future sales of significant amounts of our common stock may depress our stock price. a large percentage of our outstanding common stock is currently owned by a small number of significant stockholders.  these stockholders have sold in the past, and may sell in the future, large amounts of common stock over relatively short periods of time.  sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by our existing stockholders may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  such sales could create public perception of difficulties or problems with our business and may depress our stock price. changes in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations, could result in unfavorable accounting charges. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america.  these principles are subject to interpretation by the sec and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies.  a change in these policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions.  our accounting policies that recently have been or may be affected by changes in the accounting rules are as follows:     •   revenue recognition;     •   accounting for share-based payments;     •   leases; and     •   accounting for income taxes. if we fail to manage our exposure to global financial and securities market risk successfully, our operating results and financial statements could be materially impacted. the primary objective of most of our investment activities is to preserve principal.  to achieve this objective, a majority of our marketable investments are investment grade, liquid, short-term fixed-income securities and money market instruments denominated in u.s. dollars.  if the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition.  moreover, the performance of certain securities in our investment portfolio correlates with the credit condition of the u.s. financial sector.  in an current unstable credit environment, we might incur significant realized, unrealized or impairment losses associated with these investments. we have adopted a shareholders rights’ plan to limit the possibility that we are acquired, which may mean that a transaction that shareholders are in favor of or are benefited by may be prevented. our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such shares without any further vote or action by our   32 table of contents shareholders.  to date, our board of directors has designated 200,000 shares as series a participating preferred stock in connection with our shareholder rights’ plan.  the issuance of preferred stock under certain circumstances could have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of align or otherwise adversely affecting the rights of the holders of our stock.  the shareholder rights’ plan may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of our company which is deemed undesirable by our board of directors.  the shareholder rights’ plan may cause substantial dilution to a person or group attempting to acquire us on terms or in a manner not approved by our board of directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned on the negation, purchase or redemption of the rights issued under the shareholder rights’ plan. our effective tax rate may vary significantly from period to period. various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future effective tax rate.  these factors include, but are not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates, changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, the future levels of tax benefits of stock option deductions relating to incentive stock options and employee stock purchase plans and changes in overall levels of pretax earnings.  in june 2009, the costa rica ministry of foreign trade, an agency of the government of costa rica, granted a twelve year extension of the tax incentives which were previously granted in 2002.  under these incentives, all of the income we earn in costa rica during these twelve year incentive periods is subject to reduced rates of costa rica income tax.  the incentive tax rates will expire in various years beginning in 2017.  the costa rica corporate income tax rate that would apply, absent the incentives, is 30% for 2010.  as a result of these incentives, income taxes were reduced by $12.7 million in 2010.  in order to receive the benefit of the incentives, we must hire specified numbers of employees and maintain minimum levels of fixed asset investment in costa rica.  if we do not fulfill these conditions for any reason, our incentive could lapse and our income in costa rica would be subject to taxation at higher rates, which could have a negative impact on our operating results.   item 1b. unresolved