item 1a. risk factors the following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. these risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this form 10-k or elsewhere. these are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business operations. if any of these risks or uncertainties occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. risks related to our industry our failure to compete successfully could cause our revenue or market share to decline. the market for our products and services is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and product standards, technology and user needs and the frequent introduction of new products and   13 table of contents services. some of our competitors may be more established, benefit from greater name recognition and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. moreover, we expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of potential incentives provided by government programs and as a result of consolidation in both the it and healthcare industries. if one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. we compete on the basis of several factors, including:     •   breadth and depth of services, including our open architecture and the level of product integration across care settings;     •   reputation;     •   reliability, accuracy and security;     •   client service;     •   price; and     •   industry acceptance, expertise and experience. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures that we face will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. many healthcare industry participants are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. as provider networks and managed care organizations consolidate, thus decreasing the number of market participants, competition to provide products and services like ours will become more intense, and the importance of establishing relationships with key industry participants will become greater. these industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. further, consolidation of management and billing services through integrated delivery systems may decrease demand for our products. if we were forced to reduce our prices, our business would become less profitable unless we were able to achieve corresponding reductions in our expenses. we are subject to a number of existing laws, regulations and industry initiatives, non-compliance with certain of which could materially adversely affect our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment. as a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and relationships, and those of our clients, are regulated by a number of federal, state and local governmental entities. the impact of this regulation on us is direct, to the extent we are ourselves subject to these laws and regulations, and is also indirect, both in terms of the level of government reimbursement available to our clients and in that, in a number of situations, even if we are not directly regulated by specific healthcare laws and regulations, our products must be capable of being used by our clients in a manner that complies with those laws and regulations. the ability of our clients to do so could affect the marketability of our products or our compliance with our client contracts, or even expose us to direct liability under the theory that we had assisted our clients in a violation of healthcare laws or regulations. because our business relationships with physicians, hospitals and other provider clients are unique and the healthcare it industry as a whole is relatively young, the application of many state and federal regulations to our business operations and to our clients is uncertain. there are federal and state privacy and security laws; fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and limitations on physician referrals; and laws related to distribution and marketing, including off-label promotion of prescription drugs, which may be directly or indirectly applicable to   14 table of contents our operations and relationships or the business practices of our clients. it is possible that a review of our business practices or those of our clients by courts or regulatory authorities could result in a determination that could adversely affect us. in addition, the healthcare regulatory environment may change in a way that restricts our existing operations or our growth. the healthcare industry generally and the ehr industry specifically are expected to continue to undergo significant legal and regulatory changes for the foreseeable future, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot predict the effect of possible future enforcement, legislation and regulation. specific risks include, but are not limited to, risks relating to: healthcare fraud. federal and state governments continue to enhance regulation of and increase their scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud perpetrated by healthcare providers and professionals whose services are reimbursed by medicare, medicaid and other government healthcare programs. the healthcare industry is subject to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, prohibit the direct or indirect payment or receipt of any remuneration for patient referrals, or for the purchase or order, or arranging for or recommending referrals or purchases, of any item or service paid for in whole or in part by these federal or state healthcare programs. federal enforcement personnel have substantial funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected or perceived fraud and abuse. moreover, both federal and state laws forbid bribery and similar behavior. any determination by a regulatory, prosecutorial or judicial authority that any of our activities involving our clients, vendors or channel partners violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund a portion of our license or service fees and disqualify us from providing services to clients doing business with government programs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory or prosecutorial authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity, could require a costly response from us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. patient information. as part of the operation of our business, we may have access to or our clients may provide to us individually-identifiable health information related to the treatment, payment, and operations of providers’ practices. government and industry legislation and rulemaking, especially hipaa, hitech and standards and requirements published by industry groups such as the joint commission require the use of standard transactions, standard identifiers, security and other standards and requirements for the transmission of certain electronic health information. national standards and procedures under hipaa include the “standards for electronic transactions and code sets” (the “transaction standards”); the “security standards” (the “security standards”); and the “standards for privacy of individually identifiable health information” (the “privacy standards”). the transaction standards require the use of specified data coding, formatting and content in all specified “health care transactions” conducted electronically. the security standards require the adoption of specified types of security measures for certain electronic health information, which is called protected health information (“phi”). the privacy standards grant a number of rights to individuals as to their protected health information and restrict the use and disclosure of protected health information by “covered entities,” defined as “health plans,” “health care providers,” and “health care clearinghouses.” entities that perform services to or on behalf of covered entities where phi is or is likely to be accessed are called business associates. we believe we are a covered entity due to our acting as a “health care clearinghouse” through our provision of allscripts payerpath due to its filing of electronic healthcare claims on behalf of healthcare providers that are subject to hipaa and hitech. we also believe that we are a business associate. recent modifications to the hipaa privacy, security, breach notification, and enforcement rules impose additional obligations and burdens on covered entities, business associates, and their subcontractors relating to the privacy and security of phi. much of the privacy standards and all of the security standards now apply directly to business associates and their subcontractors. these new rules may increase the cost of compliance and could subject us to additional enforcement actions, which could further increase our costs and adversely affect the way in which we do business.   15 table of contents in addition, certain provisions of the privacy standards and security standards apply to third parties that create, access, or receive phi in order to perform a function or activity on behalf of a covered entity. such third parties are called “business associates.” covered entities and business associates must enter a written “business associate agreement”, containing specified written satisfactory assurances, consistent with the privacy and security standards and hitech and its implementing regulations, that the third party will safeguard phi that it creates or accesses and will fulfill other material obligations. most of our clients are covered entities, and we function in many of our relationships as a business associate of those clients. under the hipaa omnibus rule, business associates may be held directly liable for violations of hipaa. therefore, we could face liability under our business associate agreements and hipaa and hitech if we do not comply with our business associate obligations and applicable provisions of the privacy and security standards and hitech and its implementing regulations. the penalties for a violation of hipaa or hitech are significant and could have an adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and operating results, if such penalties ever were imposed. subject to the discussion set forth above, we believe that the principal effects of hipaa are, first, to require that our systems be capable of being operated by us and our clients in a manner that is compliant with the transaction, security and privacy standards and, second, to require us to enter into and comply with business associate agreements with our covered entity clients. for most covered entities, the deadlines for compliance with the privacy standards and the transaction standards occurred in 2003, and for the security standards in 2005, and for the hipaa omnibus rule on september 23, 2013. additionally, covered entities that are providers are required to adopt a unique standard national provider identifier, or npi, for use in filing and processing healthcare claims and other transactions. most covered entities were required to use npis in standard transactions by may 23, 2007. we have policies and procedures that we believe comply with federal and state confidentiality requirements for the handling of phi that we receive and with our obligations under business associate agreements. in particular, we believe that our systems and products are capable of being used by our clients in compliance with the transaction, security and privacy standards and are capable of being used by or for our clients in compliance with the npi requirements. if, however, we do not follow those procedures and policies, or they are not sufficient to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of phi, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal liability, fines and lawsuits, termination of our client contracts or our operations could be shut down. moreover, because all hipaa standards and hitech implementing regulations and guidance are subject to change or interpretation, we cannot predict the full future impact of hipaa, hitech or their implementing regulations on our business and operations. in the event that hipaa, hitech or their implementing regulations change or are interpreted in a way that requires any material change to the way in which we do business, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. additionally, certain state privacy laws are not preempted by hipaa and hitech and may impose independent obligations upon our clients or us. additional legislation governing the acquisition, storage and transmission or other dissemination of health record information and other personal information, including social security numbers and other identifiers, continues to be proposed and come into force at the state level. there can be no assurance that changes to state or federal laws will not materially restrict the ability of providers to submit information from patient records using our products and services. electronic prescribing. the use of our software by physicians to perform a variety of functions, including eprescribing, which refers to the electronic routing of prescriptions to pharmacies and the ensuing dispensation, is governed by state and federal law, including fraud and abuse laws. states have differing prescription format requirements, which we have programmed into our software. many existing laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate methods of e-commerce now being developed. while federal law and the laws of many states permit the electronic transmission of certain prescription orders, the laws of several states neither specifically permit nor specifically prohibit the practice. restrictions exist at the federal level, however, on the use of eprescribing for controlled substances and certain other drugs, including a new regulation enacted by the drug enforcement association in mid-2010. given the rapid growth of electronic transactions in healthcare, and particularly the growth of the internet, we expect many additional states to directly address these areas with   16 table of contents regulation in the near future. in addition, the department of health and human services published its final “e-prescribing and the prescription drug program” regulations on november 7, 2005 (effective january 1, 2006), and final regulations governing the standards for eprescribing under medicare part d on april 7, 2008 (effective june 6, 2008) (the “eprescribing regulations”). these regulations are required by the medicare prescription drug, improvement, and modernization act of 2003 (“mma”). the e-prescribing regulations consist of detailed standards and requirements, in addition to the hipaa standard discussed above, for prescription and other information transmitted electronically in connection with a drug benefit covered by the mma’s prescription drug benefit. these standards cover not only transactions between prescribers and dispensers for prescriptions but also electronic eligibility and benefits inquiries and drug formulary and benefit coverage information. the standards apply to prescription drug plans participating in the mma’s prescription drug benefit. other rules governing eprescribing apply to other areas of medicare and to medicaid. the medicare improvements for patients and providers act of 2008 (“mippa”) authorized a new and separate incentive program for individual eligible professionals who are successful electronic prescribers as defined by mippa, as well as a set of penalties for those not transmitting a minimum number of electronic prescriptions or participating in the meaningful use program. this incentive program is separate from and is in addition to the quality reporting incentive program authorized by division b of the tax relief and health care act of 2006—medicare improvements and extension act of 2006 and which is now known as the physician quality reporting system (“pqrs”). eligible professionals do not need to participate in pqrs to participate in the eprescribing incentive program. both programs were in effect throughout 2013 and remain in effect for 2014, with both generating payment adjustments for non-participating providers. to the extent that these new initiatives and regulations foster the accelerated adoption of eprescribing, our business benefits from these incentive programs. however, hitech is the most prominent incentive program since its passage, reducing the impact the mippa and pqrs programs have in spurring greater adoption of eprescribing or other healthcare it. in general, regulations in this area impose certain requirements which can be burdensome and evolve regularly, meaning that any potential benefits may be reversed by a newly-promulgated regulation that adversely affects our business model. aspects of our clinical products are affected by such regulation because of the need of our clients to comply, as discussed above. compliance with these regulations could be burdensome, time consuming and expensive. we also are subject, as discussed above, to future legislation and regulations concerning the development and marketing of healthcare software systems or requirements related to product functionality. these could increase the cost and time necessary to market new services and could affect us in other respects not presently foreseeable. electronic health records. a number of important federal and state laws govern the use and content of ehrs, including fraud and abuse laws that may affect the donation of such technology. as a company that provides ehrs to a variety of providers of healthcare, our systems and services must be designed in a manner that facilitates our clients’ compliance with these laws. we cannot predict the content or effect of possible changes to these laws or new federal and state laws that might govern these systems and services. furthermore, several of our products are certified by an onc-approved certifying body as meeting the standards for functionality, interoperability and security under hitech. our failure to maintain this certification or otherwise meet industry standards could adversely impact our business. under hitech, eligible healthcare professionals and hospitals may qualify for medicare and medicaid payment for the “meaningful use” of certified electronic health record technology that meets specified objectives under the meaningful use program. many of our products have been certified as compliant “complete ehrs” or “compliance modules,” in accordance with the applicable certification criteria set forth by the secretary of hhs, including the 2014 ehr certification edition criteria (the “2014 edition”). such certification does not represent an endorsement of our products or modules by hhs or a guaranty of the receipt of incentive payments by our clients. if our clients do not receive or lose expected incentive payments, this could harm their willingness to purchase future products or upgrades, and therefore could have an adverse effect on our future revenues.   17 table of contents in order to qualify under the current “meaningful use” criteria, including stage 2 criteria, our clients are required to install and implement our 2014 edition-related software. this requires clients to prepare their systems for this new software, and to potentially purchase, install, and run additional software required by our 2014 edition-related software, all in sufficient time to meet applicable deadlines. we or our clients may be unable to install and implement our 2014 edition-related software in time to meet these deadlines. in such cases, those clients would not qualify for certain incentive payments under hitech and could incur additional penalties. this could cause damage to our client relationships and could have an adverse effect on our future revenues. we expect to see new, increasingly complex regulatory requirements in the future, including requirements related to stage 3 “meaningful use” certification and voluntary regulations updating the 2014 edition criteria. certain of these requirements could be mandatory for many of our clients. even if our clients are not obligated to upgrade their products to remain compliant with meaningful use, they may desire to do so, and our failure to cause our products to maintain the applicable certifications could put us at a disadvantage to our competitors’ products. we may incur additional costs in designing new upgrades and products and redesigning existing products to comply with these new requirements, which could also divert resources from our other research and development priorities. claims transmission. our system electronically transmits medical claims by physicians to patients’ payers for approval and reimbursement. in addition, we offer revenue cycle management services that include the manual and electronic processing and submission of medical claims by physicians to patients’ payers for approval and reimbursement. federal law provides that it is both a civil and a criminal violation for any person to submit, or cause to be submitted, a claim to any payer, including, without limitation, medicare, medicaid and all private health plans and managed care plans, seeking payment for any services or products that overbills or bills for items that have not been provided to the patient. we have in place policies and procedures that we believe assure that all claims that are transmitted by our system and through our services are accurate and complete, provided that the information given to us by our clients is also accurate and complete. if, however, we do not follow those procedures and policies, or they are not sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims from being submitted, we could be subject to liability. as discussed above, the hipaa transaction and security standards also affect our claims transmission services, since those services must be structured and provided in a way that supports our clients’ hipaa compliance obligations. furthermore, to the extent that there is some type of information security breach, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. medical devices. certain computer software products are regulated as medical devices under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. the fda may become increasingly active in regulating computer software intended for use in healthcare settings. depending on the product, we could be required to notify the fda and demonstrate substantial equivalence to other products on the market before marketing such products or obtain fda approval by demonstrating safety and effectiveness before marketing a product. depending on the intended use of a device, the fda could require us to obtain extensive data from clinical studies to demonstrate safety or effectiveness or substantial equivalence. if the fda requires these data, we could be required to obtain approval of an investigational device exemption before undertaking clinical trials. clinical trials can take extended periods of time to complete. we cannot provide assurances that the fda would approve or clear a device after the completion of such trials. in addition, these products would be subject to the federal food, drug and cosmetic act’s general controls. the fda can impose extensive requirements governing pre- and post-market conditions like approval, labeling and manufacturing, as well as governing product design controls and quality assurance processes. failure to comply with fda requirements can result in criminal and civil fines and penalties, product seizure, injunction, and civil monetary policies—each of which could have an adverse effect on our business. health reform. the ppaca may have an impact on our business. the ppaca contains various provisions which may impact us and our clients. some of these provisions (including accountable care organizations and the comprehensive primary care initiative) may have a positive impact by requiring the expanded use of ehrs   18 table of contents and analytics tools to participate in certain federal programs, for example, while others, such as those mandating reductions in reimbursement for certain types of providers, may have a negative impact by reducing the resources available to purchase our products. increases in fraud and abuse enforcement and penalties may also adversely affect participants in the healthcare sector, including us. additionally, conversations continue in congress around the medicare sustainable growth rate reimbursement model and possible replacement payment methodologies, some of which would further encourage the adoption of healthcare it in order to satisfy possible new requirements tying the report of quality measurements to the receipt of payment through medicare but which also currently raise ambiguity among physician populations and healthcare organizations. increased government involvement in healthcare could adversely affect our business. u.s. healthcare system reform at both the federal and state level could increase government involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates and otherwise change the business environment of our clients and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. we cannot predict whether or when future healthcare reform initiatives at the federal or state level or other initiatives affecting our business will be proposed, enacted or implemented or what impact those initiatives may have on our business, financial condition or operating results. our clients and the other entities with which we have a business relationship could react to these initiatives and the uncertainty surrounding these proposals by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our products and services. the government has signaled increased enforcement activity targeting healthcare fraud and abuse, which could adversely impact our business, either directly or indirectly. to the extent that our clients, most of whom are providers, may be affected by this increased enforcement environment, our business could correspondingly be affected. additionally, government regulation could alter the clinical workflow of physicians, hospitals and other healthcare participants, thereby limiting the utility of our products and services to existing and potential clients and curtailing broad acceptance of our products and services. further examples of government involvement could include requiring the standardization of technology relating to ehrs, providing clients with incentives to adopt ehr solutions or developing a low-cost government sponsored ehr solution, such as the vista-office ehr. additionally, certain safe harbors to the federal anti-kickback statute and corresponding exceptions to the federal ethics in patient referrals act, known as the stark law, may alter the competitive landscape. these safe harbors and exceptions are intended to accelerate the adoption of electronic prescription systems and ehr systems, and therefore provide new and attractive opportunities for us to work with hospitals and other donors who wish to provide our solutions to physicians. at the same time, such safe harbors and exceptions may result in increased competition from providers of acute ehr solutions, whose hospital clients may seek to donate their existing acute ehr solutions to physicians for use in ambulatory settings. if the electronic healthcare information market fails to develop as quickly as expected, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. the electronic healthcare information market is rapidly evolving. a number of market entrants have introduced or developed products and services that are competitive with one or more components of the solutions we offer. we expect that additional companies will continue to enter this market, especially in response to recent government subsidies. in new and rapidly evolving industries, there is significant uncertainty and risk as to the demand for, and market acceptance of, recently introduced products and services. because the markets for our products and services are new and evolving, we are not able to predict the size and growth rate of the markets with any certainty. if markets fail to develop, develop more slowly than expected or become saturated with competitors, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected.   19 table of contents we may not see the benefits of government programs initiated to accelerate the adoption and utilization of health information technology. while government programs have been initiated to improve the efficiency and quality of the healthcare sector, including expenditures to stimulate business and accelerate the adoption and utilization of healthcare technology, we may not receive any of those funds. for example, the passage of hitech authorized approximately $30 billion in expenditures, including discretionary funding, to further the adoption of ehrs. however, there can be no certainty that the planned financial incentives, if made, will be made in regard to our services, nor can there be any assurance that hitech will not be repealed or amended in a manner that would be unfavorable to our business. we also cannot predict the speed at which physicians will adopt ehr systems in response to such government incentives, whether physicians will select our products and services, or whether physicians will implement an ehr system at all, whether in response to government funding or at all. if the expected outcomes with respect to government programs do not materialize, or if physicians do not respond to such programs as expected, then this could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and our future financial performance. changes in interoperability and other regulatory standards applicable to our software could require us to incur substantial additional development costs. our clients and the industry leaders enacting regulatory requirements are concerned with and often require that our software solutions be interoperable with other third party health it suppliers. market forces or governmental/regulatory authorities could create software interoperability standards that would apply to our solutions, and if our software solutions and/or healthcare devices are not consistent with those standards, we could be forced to incur substantial additional development costs. hitech, which is part of arra, provides financial incentives to hospitals and doctors who demonstrate that they are “meaningful electronic health record users,” of health it systems that are “certified” according to a set of standards for functionality, interoperability and security developed under the supervision of the secretary of the department of health and human services. hitech also imposes certain requirements upon governmental agencies to use, and requires healthcare providers, health plans, and insurers contracting with such agencies to use, systems that are certified according to such standards. the secretary of the department of health and human services continues to modify those standards. achieving hitech certification is becoming a competitive requirement, resulting in increased software development and administrative expense to conform to these requirements, and other government programs unrelated to the ehr incentive program are increasingly referring to the onc certification as a condition of participation. these standards and specifications, once finalized, will be subject to interpretation by the entities designated to test and certify such technology. we will incur increased development costs in delivering solutions to upgrade our software and healthcare devices to be in compliance with these varying and evolving standards, and delays may result in connection therewith. if our software solutions are not consistent with these evolving standards, our market position and sales could be adversely affected and we may have to invest significantly in changes to our software solutions, although we do not expect such costs to be significant in relation to the overall development costs for our solutions. changes in cms diagnosis and inpatient procedure coding require us to make modifications to our products and services, which could result in significant development costs and which if unsuccessful could adversely affect our sales. cms has mandated the use of new patient codes for reporting medical diagnosis and inpatient procedures, referred to as the icd-10 codes. cms is requiring all providers, payers, clearinghouses, and billing services to utilize these icd-10 codes when submitting claims for payment. icd-10 codes will affect diagnosis and inpatient procedure coding for everyone covered by hipaa, not just those who submit medicare or medicaid claims. claims for services provided on or after october 1, 2014 must use icd-10 codes for medical diagnosis and inpatient procedures or they will not be paid. if our products and services do not accommodate cms mandates at   20 table of contents any future date, clients may cease to use those products and services that are not compliant or may choose alternative vendors and products that are compliant. this could adversely impact future sales. risks related to our company the realignment of our sales, services, and support organizations could adversely affect client relationships and affect our future growth. we periodically make adjustments to our sales, services, and support organizations in response to market opportunities, management changes, product introductions, and other internal and external considerations. these changes could result in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. in addition, these adjustments could result in our clients experiencing a change in our employees with whom they interact. any of these changes could adversely impact individual client relationships, client retention, and sales of products and services to existing clients. it is also possible that these changes could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services to new clients. any such events could negatively affect our revenue growth and our future financial performance. if physicians and hospitals do not accept our products and services, or delay in deciding whether to purchase our products and services, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. our business model depends on our ability to sell our products and services. acceptance of our products and services requires physicians and hospitals to adopt different behavior patterns and new methods of conducting business and exchanging information. we cannot provide assurance that physicians and hospitals will integrate our products and services into their workflow or that participants in the healthcare market will accept our products and services as a replacement for traditional methods of conducting healthcare transactions. achieving market acceptance for our products and services will require substantial sales and marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant financial and other resources to create awareness and demand by participants in the healthcare industry. if we fail to achieve broad acceptance of our products and services by physicians, hospitals and other healthcare industry participants, or if we fail to position our services as a preferred method for information management and healthcare delivery, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. it is difficult to predict the sales cycle and implementation schedule for our software solutions. the duration of the sales cycle and implementation schedule for our software solutions depends on a number of factors, including the nature and size of the potential client and the extent of the commitment being made by the potential client, all of which is difficult to predict. our sales and marketing efforts with respect to hospitals and large health organizations generally involve a lengthy sales cycle due to these organizations’ complex decision-making processes. additionally, in light of increased government involvement in healthcare, and related changes in the operating environment for healthcare organizations, our current and potential clients may react by reducing or deferring investments, including their purchases of our solutions or services. if clients take longer than we expect to decide whether to purchase our solutions, our selling expenses could increase and our revenues could decrease, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. if clients take longer than we expect to implement our solutions, our recognition of related revenue would be delayed, which could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. our future success depends upon our ability to grow, and if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may incur unexpected expenses and be unable to meet our clients’ requirements. we will need to expand our operations if we successfully achieve market acceptance for our products and services. we cannot be certain that our systems, procedures, controls and existing space will be adequate to   21 table of contents support expansion of our operations. our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and employees to manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our technical, administrative, financial control and reporting systems. we may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases. difficulties in managing any future growth, including as a result of integrating any prior or future acquisition with our existing businesses, could cause us to incur unexpected expenses, render us unable to meet our clients’ requirements, and consequently have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. we are working to expand our operations in markets outside of the united states. there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. we have limited experience in marketing, selling, implementing, and supporting our software abroad. expansion of our international sales and operations may require us to divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and could result in significant expense to us, which could harm our operating results. if we are unable to successfully introduce new products or services or fail to keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. the successful implementation of our business model depends on our ability to adapt to evolving technologies and increasingly aggressive industry standards and introduce new products and services accordingly. we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to introduce new products on schedule, or at all, or that such products will achieve market acceptance. moreover, competitors may develop competitive products that could adversely affect our operating results. a failure by us to introduce planned products or other new products or to introduce these products on schedule could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and operating results. if we cannot adapt to changing technologies, our products and services may become obsolete, and our business could suffer. because the health it market is characterized by rapid technological change, we may be unable to anticipate changes in our current and potential clients’ requirements that could make our existing technology obsolete. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and services, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective clients, license leading technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. the development of our proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may not be successful in using new technologies effectively or adapting our proprietary technology to evolving client requirements or emerging industry standards, and, as a result, our business could suffer. we may experience client attrition and incur significant legal and other costs relating to the standardization of our small office electronic health record and practice management systems, which could adversely affect our operating results. in october 2012, we initiated a plan to standardize our small office ehr and practice management systems. as part of this plan, we intend to converge, over time, our myway ehr system (“myway”) with our professional suite ehr system (“professional suite”). since that time, we have been upgrading those myway clients who have elected to upgrade to professional suite, at no additional cost to these clients. we will likely incur additional expenses in connection with such actions, which would adversely affect our operating results. certain of our myway clients have elected not to upgrade to professional suite. additionally, certain myway clients and resellers, and four plaintiffs seeking to represent a class of myway clients, have filed lawsuits against us in 2012 and 2013 relating to our plan to converge the myway and professional suite systems. any client dissatisfaction with our convergence program could adversely affect our future revenues. additional costs related to this program, the costs of any litigation relating to this program, and any adverse outcomes related to such litigation, could materially increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our operating results.   22 table of contents our business depends in part on our ability to establish and maintain additional strategic relationships. to be successful, we must continue to maintain our existing strategic relationships and establish additional strategic relationships with leaders in a number of healthcare and health it industry segments. this is critical to our success because we believe that these relationships contribute towards our ability to:     •   extend the reach of our products and services to a larger number of physicians and hospitals and to other participants in the healthcare industry;     •   develop and deploy new products and services;     •   further enhance our brand; and     •   generate additional revenue and cash flows. entering into strategic relationships is complicated because strategic partners may decide to compete with us in some or all of our markets. in addition, we may not be able to maintain or establish relationships with key participants in the healthcare industry if we conduct business with their competitors. we depend, in part, on our strategic partners’ ability to generate increased acceptance and use of our products and services. if we lose any of these strategic relationships or fail to establish additional relationships, or if our strategic relationships fail to benefit us as expected, we may not be able to execute our business plan, and our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer. we have acquired and expect to acquire new companies or technologies, which are subject to significant risks. from time to time, we have made investments in, or acquisitions of, businesses, joint ventures, new services and technologies, and other intellectual property rights. we expect that we will continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future. investments and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to:     •   the potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the investment or acquisition, including the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs, or the inability to achieve expected synergies or cost savings;     •   unanticipated expenses related to acquired businesses or technologies and its integration into our existing businesses or technology;     •   the diversion of financial, managerial, and other resources from existing operations;     •   the risks of entering into new markets in which we have little or no experience or where competitors may have stronger positions;     •   potential write-offs or amortization of acquired assets or investments;     •   the potential loss of key employees, clients, or partners of an acquired business;     •   delays in client purchases due to uncertainty related to any acquisition;     •   potential unknown liabilities associated with an investment or acquisition; and     •   the tax effects of any such acquisitions. in addition, the success of any prior or future acquisition, including our merger with eclipsys and our recent acquisitions of dbmotion and jardogs, will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate our existing businesses with those of the acquired company, including the integration of products and technologies. these integrations are inherently complex, costly and time-consuming processes and involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, unanticipated expenses and the diversion of financial, managerial, and other resources from both our existing operations and those of the acquired company’s. the integration of foreign acquisitions presents additional   23 table of contents challenges associated with integrating operations across different cultures and languages, as well as currency and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. if we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses or fail to implement our business strategies with respect to acquisitions or investments, we may not be able to achieve projected results or support the amount of consideration paid for such acquired businesses or investments, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. finally, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible or other debt securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, or we could face constraints related to the terms of and repayment obligations related to the incurrence of indebtedness. this could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. if our products fail to perform properly due to errors or similar problems, our business could suffer. complex software, such as ours, often contains defects or errors, some of which may remain undetected for a period of time. it is possible that such errors may be found after the introduction of new software or enhancements to existing software. we continually introduce new solutions and enhancements to our solutions, and, despite testing by us, it is possible that errors may occur in our software. if we detect any errors before we introduce a solution, we might have to delay deployment for an extended period of time while we address the problem. if we do not discover software errors that affect our new or current solutions or enhancements until after they are deployed, we would need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. errors in our software could result in:     •   product liability claims or patient safety issues;     •   unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors;     •   harm to our reputation;     •   lost sales;     •   delays in commercial releases;     •   delays in or loss of market acceptance of our solutions;     •   license termination or renegotiations; and     •   privacy and/or security vulnerabilities. furthermore, our clients might use our software together with products from other companies or those that they have developed internally. as a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our solution development efforts, impact our reputation and cause significant client relations problems. our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could reduce the value of our products, services, and technologies. our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets to us. various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services, and technologies. for instance, any of our current or future intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. we have taken efforts to protect our proprietary rights. these efforts may not be sufficient or effective. for example, the secrecy of our trade secrets or other confidential information could be compromised by our   24 table of contents employees or by third parties, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from those trade secrets or confidential information. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise infringe upon, misappropriate, or use our intellectual property. legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and still evolving. the laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the united states, and effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed. any impairment of our intellectual property rights, or our failure to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, could harm our business and our ability to compete. also, monitoring and protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and result in significant expense to us, which could harm our operating results. we have been and in the future may be involved in legal proceedings that could materially adversely affect us, including legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing, misappropriating, or violating the intellectual property rights of third parties. we have been and may continue to be subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. legal proceedings and claims involving us may be expensive, time consuming, disruptive to our operations, and distracting to our management. furthermore, the outcome of any legal proceedings, regardless of the merits, is inherently uncertain. if one or more of these legal proceedings were resolved against us, this could result in significant monetary damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate matters, or injunctive relief against us. this could adversely affect the way we operate our business, as well as our financial condition and operating results. if such adverse outcome occurs in a reporting period for an amount in excess of management’s expectations, our consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could also be adversely affected. we maintain general liability coverage that may apply in the event we are involved in a legal proceeding or claim. this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms, may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more claims against us, and may include larger self-insured retentions or exclusions for certain products or services. in addition, the insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claim. this could increase the harm of one or more legal proceedings being resolved against us. our industry is characterized by increasingly frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. additionally, our business involves the gathering and analysis of data about third parties, some or all of which may be claimed to be confidential or proprietary. as we continue to grow and expand into new geographies and markets, intellectual property rights claims against us may continue to increase. if we are found to infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights, we may be required to pay substantial damages. we may also be subject to a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain products or services or requiring us to otherwise change our technology or business practices. this could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise adversely affect our business or financial condition. many of our client agreements require us to indemnify our clients for third party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the costs to us of an adverse ruling on such claim or legal proceeding, and could adversely impact our relationships with our clients. in certain cases, we may consider the desirability of entering into license agreements with respect to a third party’s intellectual property, or otherwise settling an outstanding legal proceeding or claim. no assurance can be given that such licenses or settlements can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation or other legal proceedings will not ultimately occur. these licenses or settlements may also significantly increase our operating expenses, restrict our business activities, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.   25 table of contents if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, or hire new personnel, then we may not be able to compete or grow effectively. much of our future performance depends on the continued availability and service of our key personnel, including our chief executive officer, our senior management team, and our other highly qualified personnel, as well as being able to hire additional highly qualified personnel who have a deep understanding of our industry. competition in our industry for such personnel, especially with respect to sales and technical personnel, is intense. we are required to expend significant resources on identifying, hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining such personnel throughout our organization. many of the companies with whom we compete for such personnel have greater resources than us, and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. our investment in training and developing our employees makes them more attractive to our clients and competitors, who may then seek to recruit them. furthermore, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. our failure to attract new highly qualified personnel, or our failure to retain and motivate our existing key personnel, could harm our business, our ability to compete, and our future growth prospects. if our content and service providers fail to perform adequately, or to comply with laws, regulations or contractual covenants, our reputation and our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. we depend on independent content and service providers for communications and information services and for some of the benefits we provide through our software applications and services, including the maintenance of managed care pharmacy guidelines, drug interaction reviews, the routing of transaction data to third-party payers and the hosting of our applications. our ability to rely on these services could be impaired as a result of the failure of such providers to comply with applicable laws, regulations and contractual covenants, or as a result of events affecting such providers, such as power loss, telecommunication failures, software or hardware errors, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems, fire, flood and natural disasters. any such failure or event could adversely affect our relationships with our clients and damage our reputation. this would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, we may have no means of replacing content or services on a timely basis or at all if they are inadequate or in the event of a service interruption or failure. we also rely on independent content providers for the majority of the clinical, educational and other healthcare information that we provide. in addition, we depend on our content providers to deliver high quality content from reliable sources and to continually upgrade their content in response to demand and evolving healthcare industry trends. if these parties fail to develop and maintain high quality, attractive content, the value of our brand and our business, financial condition and operating results could be impaired. we may be liable for use of content we provide. we provide content for use by healthcare providers in treating patients. third-party content suppliers provide certain of this content. if this content is incorrect or incomplete, adverse consequences, including death, may occur and give rise to product liability and other claims against us. in addition, certain of our solutions provide applications that relate to patient clinical information, and a court or government agency may take the position that our delivery of health information directly, including through licensed practitioners, or delivery of information by a third party site that a consumer accesses through our websites, exposes us to personal injury liability, or other liability for wrongful delivery or handling of healthcare services or erroneous health information. while we maintain product liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, we cannot provide assurance that this coverage will prove to be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. a claim that is brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources.   26 table of contents if our security is breached, we could be subject to liability, and clients could be deterred from using our products and services. our business relies on the secure electronic transmission, storage, and hosting of sensitive information, including phi, financial information, and other sensitive information relating to our clients, company and workforce. as a result, we face some risk of a deliberate or unintentional incident involving unauthorized access to our computer systems or data that could result in the misappropriation or loss of assets or the disclosure of sensitive information, the corruption of data, or other disruption of our business operations. similarly, denial-of-service or other internet-based attacks may range from mere vandalism of our electronic systems to systematic theft of sensitive information and intellectual property. in light of this risk, we have devoted and continue to devote significant resources to protecting and maintaining the confidentiality of this information, including implementing security and privacy programs and controls, training our workforce, and implementing new technology. we have no guarantee that these programs and controls will be adequate to prevent all possible security threats. any compromise of our electronic systems, including the unauthorized access, use or disclosure of sensitive information or a significant disruption of our computing assets and networks, could adversely affect our reputation or our ability to fulfill contractual obligations, could require us to devote significant financial and other resources to mitigate such problems, and could increase our future cyber security costs, including through organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, further training of employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants. moreover, unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of such sensitive information could result in civil or criminal liability or regulatory action, including potential fines and penalties. in addition, any real or perceived compromise of our security or disclosure of sensitive information, may result in lost revenues by, deterring clients from using or purchasing our products and services in the future or by clients electing to use competing suppliers. we use third-party contractors to store, transmit, or host sensitive information for our clients. while we have contractual relationships with these third-party contractors that require them to have appropriate security programs and controls in place and, frequently, to indemnify us, any compromise or failure of these contractors’ security could adversely affect our reputation, require us to devote financial and other resources to mitigate these breaches, or subject us to litigation from our clients. recently, other companies have experienced many high profile incidents involving data security breaches by entities that transmit and store sensitive information. lawsuits resulting from these security breaches have sought very significant monetary damages, although many of these suits have yet to be resolved. while we maintain insurance to cover these types of damages and costs, if we are sued for this type of security breach it is uncertain whether this coverage would be applicable or sufficient to cover the costs or damages that might be assessed. if we are forced to reduce our prices, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. we may be subject to pricing pressures with respect to our future sales arising from various sources, including practices of managed care organizations, group purchasing arrangements made through government programs such as the regional extension centers, and government action affecting reimbursement levels affecting physicians, hospitals, home health professionals or any combination thereof under medicare, medicaid and other government health programs. our clients and the other entities with which we have a business relationship are affected by changes in statutes, regulations and limitations in governmental spending for medicare, medicaid and other programs. recent government actions and future legislative and administrative changes could limit government spending for the medicare and medicaid programs, limit payments to hospitals and other providers, increase emphasis on competition, impose price controls, initiate new and expanded value-based reimbursement programs and create other programs that potentially could have an adverse effect on our clients and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. if our pricing experiences significant downward pressure, our business will be less profitable and our operating results would be adversely affected. in   27 table of contents addition, because cash from sales funds some of our working capital requirements, reduced profitability could require us to raise additional capital sooner than we would otherwise intend. our failure to license and integrate third-party technologies could harm our business. we depend upon licenses for some of the technology used in our solutions from third-party vendors, and intend to continue licensing technologies from third parties. these technologies might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. most of these licenses can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. our inability to obtain, maintain or comply with any of these licenses could delay development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated, which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive and our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. in addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, we might not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions. if we fail to maintain and expand our business with our existing clients, or to effectively transition our clients to newer products, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our business model depends on our success with maintaining our existing clients and selling new and incremental products and services to our existing clients. in addition, our success with certain clients requires our achieving interoperability between our new products and our legacy products to provide a single solution that connects healthcare providers across care settings. certain of our clinical solutions business unit clients initially purchase one or a limited number of our products and services. these clients might choose not to expand their use of, or purchase, additional modules. also, as we deploy new applications and features for our existing solutions or introduce new solutions and services, our current clients could choose not to purchase these new offerings. if we fail to generate additional business from our current clients, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or even decrease. in addition, the transition of our existing clients to current versions of our products presents certain risks, including the risk of data loss or corruption, or delays in completion. if such events occur, our client relationships and reputation could be damaged, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. our business is subject to the risks of international operations. we operate in several countries outside of the u.s., including significant operations in india and israel. additionally, we plan to further expand our international sales efforts. this subjects our business to risks and challenges associated with operating internationally, which include:     •   changes in local political, economic, social, and labor conditions;     •   natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, or security breaches;     •   different employee/employer relationships, existence of workers’ councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences;     •   restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating, or make it cost-prohibitive for us to repatriate, cash earned in countries outside of the u.s.;   28 table of contents   •   import and export requirements, tariffs, trade disputes, and barriers;     •   longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud;     •   uncertainty regarding liability for our products and services, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of legal precedent;     •   different or lesser protection of our intellectual property;     •   different regulatory requirements that may apply to our products and/or how we operate; and     •   localization of our products and services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses. all of the foregoing risks could prevent or restrict us from offering products or services to a particular market, could increase our operating costs, and could otherwise adversely affect our operating results. in addition, our compliance with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. these numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, internal control and disclosure rules, data privacy requirements, anti-corruption laws (such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act) and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, and antitrust and competition regulations. violations of these laws and regulations could result in, among other things, fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also affect our international expansion efforts, our business, and our operating results. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents, or distributors, or third parties with whom we do business, will not violate our policies. finally, since we conduct business in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, but report our financial results in u.s. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may make our products and services more expensive for our international clients, or otherwise adversely affect our operating results. we occasionally hedge our international currency exposure; however, hedging programs are inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks. we could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to taxes in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. current economic and political conditions make tax rates in any jurisdiction, including those in the u.s., subject to significant change. our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of our earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including changes in tax laws affecting our products and services and the healthcare industry more generally. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other documentation by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. business disruptions could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services. a major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems   29 table of contents could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our failure to maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting could impair our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements. we maintain internal financial and accounting controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. (“gaap”). ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place, such that we can provide accurate financial statements on a timely basis, is a costly and time-consuming process that requires significant management attention. additionally, if our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal controls over financial reporting, or if the firm interprets the relevant rules, regulations, or requirements related to the maintenance of internal controls over financial reporting differently than we do, then it may issue an adverse opinion. as we continue to expand our business, the challenges involved in implementing adequate internal controls over financial reporting will increase. furthermore, during the third quarter of 2013, we completed a significant upgrade to our enterprise resource planning (“erp”) system. this upgrade involved substantial expenditures on system hardware and software, and required significant management attention. if this upgrade does not, or any subsequent upgrades or changes to our internal controls over financial reporting do not, operate as intended, it could require additional management attention or otherwise make it more difficult for us to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting. any failure to maintain adequate controls, any inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, or any adverse opinion issued by our independent registered public accounting firm related to our internal controls over financial reporting, could increase our operating costs and harm our business. in addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls over financial reporting are inadequate, or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, may harm the price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us to effectively market and sell our services to clients. this could also subject us to sanctions or investigations by nasdaq, the sec, or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. we could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges. we are required under gaap to test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, as well as on an interim basis if indicators for potential impairment, such as a decline in the market value of our common stock, exist. in addition, we periodically review our finite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. this includes the carrying value of the upgrade to our erp system, which we completed in the third quarter of 2013. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined. this could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. there are inherent uncertainties in management’s estimates, judgments, and assumptions used in assessing recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets. any changes in key assumptions, including with respect to unanticipated events and circumstances, may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates and could potentially result in an impairment charge.   30 table of contents risks related to our common stock provisions of our charter documents and debt instruments, as well as delaware law, may delay or inhibit potential acquisition bids that our stockholders may believe are desirable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. our charter documents contain provisions that may delay or inhibit potential acquisition bids, including provisions that:     •   our stockholders are not allowed to act by written consent, and     •   our stockholders are not allowed to call a special meeting of stockholders. additionally:     •   the indenture (the “indenture”) governing our 1.25% cash convertible senior notes (the “1.25% notes”), which are discussed elsewhere in this form 10-k, may prohibit us from engaging in a change of control unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the 1.25% notes;     •   if a change of control of us occurs, the indenture may permit holders of the 1.25% notes to require us to repurchase all or a portion of the 1.25% notes, and may also require us to pay a cash make-whole premium by increasing the conversion rate for a note holder who elects to convert; and     •   immediately prior to a change of control of us, the 2013 credit agreement may require us to repay all indebtedness outstanding thereunder. these provisions in our charter documents and debt instruments could discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of us, and therefore could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. finally, our charter documents include an election to be governed by section 203 of the delaware general corporation law (the “dgcl”), which prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. this provision will make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation, and may apply even if some of our stockholders consider the acquisition beneficial to them. this provision could also limit the price that investors are willing to pay for shares of our common stock. any issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock and discourage a takeover. our board of directors (our “board”) is authorized to issue up to 1 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. our board also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or in the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up and other terms. in the event that we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock that is convertible into our common stock at greater than a one-to-one ratio, the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. in addition, the ability of our board to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders may impede a takeover of us and prevent a transaction favorable to the holders of our common stock. our common stock price is subject to volatility. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.   31 table of contents additionally, the stock market in general, and the market prices for companies in our industry in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. some companies that have experienced volatility in the trading price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. if we are the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. our quarterly operating results may vary. our quarterly operating results have varied in the past, and we expect that our quarterly operating results will continue to vary in future periods depending on a number of factors, some of which we have no control over, including clients’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance procedures, the sales, service and implementation cycles for our software products, potential downturns in the healthcare market and in economic conditions generally, and other factors described in this “risk factors” section. we base our expense levels in part on our expectations concerning future revenue, and these expense levels are relatively fixed in the short term. if we have lower revenue than expected, we may not be able to reduce our spending in the short term in response. any shortfall in revenue would have a direct impact on our operating results. in addition, our product sales cycle for larger sales is lengthy and unpredictable, making it difficult to estimate our future bookings for any given period. if we do not achieve projected booking targets for a given period, securities analysts may change their recommendations on our common stock. for these and other reasons, we may not meet the earnings estimates of securities analysts or investors, and our stock price could suffer. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, and otherwise place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. we may also be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. if new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the related risks that we face could intensify. the credit agreement and the indenture each contain, and any future indebtedness would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that may be in our best interests. additionally, the credit agreement requires us to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to continue to meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement or the indenture. upon the occurrence of an event of default, our lenders could terminate all commitments to extend further credit, and some or all of our outstanding indebtedness may become immediately due and payable. we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. additionally, we have pledged substantially all of our tangible and intangible property as collateral under the credit agreement, and the lenders under the credit agreement could proceed against such collateral if we were unable to timely repay these amounts. the accounting for the 1.25% notes will result in our having to recognize interest expense significantly greater than the stated interest rate of the notes and may result in volatility to our consolidated statements of operations. we will settle any conversions of the 1.25% notes entirely in cash. in accordance with gaap, the conversion option that is part of the 1.25% notes will be accounted for as a derivative pursuant to accounting   32 table of contents standards relating to derivative instruments and hedging activities. in general, this resulted in an initial valuation of the conversion option separate from the debt component of the 1.25% notes, resulting in an original issue discount. the original issue discount will be accreted to interest expense over the term of the 1.25% notes, which will result in an effective interest rate reported in our financial statements significantly in excess of the stated coupon rate of the 1.25% notes. this accounting treatment will reduce our earnings and could adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades. for each financial statement period after the issuance of the 1.25% notes, a hedge gain (or loss) will be reported in our financial statements to the extent the valuation of the conversion option changes from the previous period. the 1.25% call option (as defined under part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k, “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations”—future capital requirements) will also be accounted for as a derivative instrument, substantially offsetting the gain (or loss) associated with changes to the valuation of the conversion option. this may result in increased volatility to our operating results. the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions we entered into in connection with the issuance of our 1.25% notes may not provide the benefits we anticipate, and may have a dilutive effect on our common stock. concurrently with the issuance of the 1.25% notes, we entered into the 1.25% call option with, and issued the 1.25% warrants (as defined under part ii—item 7. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—future capital requirements) to, certain of the initial purchasers of the 1.25% notes. we entered into the 1.25% call option transaction with the expectation that it would offset potential cash payments in excess of the principal amount of the 1.25% notes upon conversion of the 1.25% notes. in the event that the hedge counterparties fail to deliver potential cash payments to us, as required under the 1.25% call option documents, we would not receive the benefit of such transaction. separately, we also issued the 1.25% warrants to the hedge counterparties. the 1.25% warrants could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the transaction, exceeds the strike price of the 1.25% warrants. item 1b. unresolved