item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this report. these are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business operations. if any of these risks or uncertainties occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to the eclipsys merger we may be unable to successfully integrate eclipsys’ business with our business and realize the anticipated benefits of the eclipsys merger. the success of the eclipsys merger will depend, in part, on the ability to realize the anticipated synergies, growth opportunities and cost savings from integrating eclipsys’ business with our business. the integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process and involves numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, the entry into markets in which we or eclipsys have little or no direct prior experience, the potential loss of our key employees or eclipsys’ key employees, and the potential inability to maintain the goodwill of existing clients. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among other factors:     •   managing a significantly larger company;     •   the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process;   19   •   integrating two unique business cultures, which may prove to be incompatible;     •   creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems and minimizing the costs associated with such matters;     •   integrating information, purchasing, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems;     •   preserving customer, supplier, research and development, distribution, marketing, promotion and other important relationships;     •   commercializing products under development and increasing revenues from existing marketed products;     •   coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities, including complexities associated with managing the combined businesses with separate locations;     •   combining the sales force territories and competencies associated with the sale of products and services presently sold or provided by us or eclipsys;     •   integrating personnel from different companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high-quality products and customer service and attractive to prospective customers;     •   integrating complex technologies, solutions and products from different companies in a manner that is seamless to customers; and     •   performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management’s attention to the eclipsys merger. if management is unable to combine successfully our business and the business of eclipsys in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the eclipsys merger, such anticipated benefits of the eclipsys merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. any of the above difficulties could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, partners, suppliers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the eclipsys merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. to be successful, we must retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. to be successful, we must retain and motivate executives and other key employees. our employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us until or after strategies are announced or executed. these circumstances may adversely affect our ability to retain key personnel. we and eclipsys have implemented retention plans to retain and motivate executives and other key employees which will increase the cost of the eclipsys merger. we also must continue to motivate employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals, which effort may be adversely affected as a result of the uncertainty and difficulties with integrating our business and eclipsys’ business. if we are unable to retain executives and other key employees, the roles and responsibilities of such executive officers and employees will need to be filled either by existing or new officers and employees, which may require us to devote time and resources to identifying, hiring and integrating replacements for the departed executives that could otherwise be used to integrate our business and eclipsys’ business or otherwise pursue business opportunities. if we are unable to manage our growth, our business and financial results could suffer. our future financial results will depend in part on our ability to profitably manage our core businesses, including any growth that we may be able to achieve. over the past several years, both we and eclipsys have engaged in the identification of, and competition for, growth and expansion opportunities. in order to achieve those initiatives, we will need to, among other things, recruit, train, retain and effectively manage employees and expand our operations and financial control systems. if we are unable to manage our businesses effectively and profitably, our business and financial results could suffer.   20 as a result of the completion of the eclipsys merger, we will incur significant additional expenses in connection with the integration of the two businesses. during the seven months ended december 31, 2010, we incurred expenses of approximately $45 million in the eclipsys merger. as we work to integrate the business, we expect to incur significant additional expenses relating to the integration of personnel, geographically diverse operations, information technology systems, accounting systems, customers, and strategic partners of each company and the implementation of consistent standards, policies, and procedures, and we may be subject to possibly material write downs in assets and charges to earnings, which are expected to include severance pay and other costs. the integration process will be long-term and will continue to create significant expenses. risks related to our business if physicians and hospitals do not accept our products and services, or delay in deciding whether to purchase our products and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. our business model depends on our ability to sell our products and services. acceptance of our products and services requires physicians and hospitals to adopt different behavior patterns and new methods of conducting business and exchanging information. we cannot assure you that physicians and hospitals will integrate our products and services into their workflow or that participants in the healthcare market will accept our products and services as a replacement for traditional methods of conducting healthcare transactions. achieving market acceptance for our products and services will require substantial sales and marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant financial and other resources to create awareness and demand by participants in the healthcare industry. if we fail to achieve broad acceptance of our products and services by physicians, hospitals and other healthcare industry participants or if we fail to position our services as a preferred method for information management and healthcare delivery, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. we may not see the benefits of government programs initiated to accelerate the adoption and utilization of health information technology and to counter the effects of the current economic situation. while government programs have been initiated to improve the efficiency and quality of the healthcare sector and also counter the effects of the current economic situation, including expenditures to stimulate business and accelerate the adoption and utilization of health care technology, we cannot assure you that we will receive any of those funds. for example, the passage of the health information technology for economic and clinical health act, or hitech, under the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (arra) authorizes what is expected to be up to almost $30 billion in expenditures, including discretionary funding, to further adoption of electronic health records. although we believe that our service offerings will meet the requirements of the hitech act in order for our clients to qualify for financial incentives for implementing and using our services, there can be no certainty that any of the planned financial incentives, if made, will be made in regard to our services. we also cannot predict the speed at which physicians will adopt electronic health record systems in response to such government incentives, whether physicians will select our products and services or whether physicians will implement an electronic health record system at all. any delay in the purchase and implementation of electronic health records systems by physicians in response to government programs, or the failure of physicians to purchase an electronic health record system, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. it is also possible that congress will repeal or not fund hitech or otherwise amend it in a manner that would be unfavorable to our business. our failure to compete successfully could cause our revenue or market share to decline. the market for our products and services is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and product standards, technology and user needs and the frequent introduction of new products and   21 services. some of our competitors may be more established, benefit from greater name recognition and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. moreover, we expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of potential incentives provided by the stimulus and consolidation in both the information technology and healthcare industries. if one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. we compete on the basis of several factors, including:     •   breadth and depth of services;     •   reputation;     •   reliability, accuracy and security;     •   client service;     •   price; and     •   industry expertise and experience. our principal existing competitors in the physician healthcare information systems and services market include aprima medical software (formerly imedica corporation), athenahealth inc., cerner corporation, eclinicalworks inc., emdeon business services llc, epic systems corporation, general electric company, mckesson corporation, quality systems, inc., sage software, inc., the trizetto group, inc., and wellsoft corporation. our principal existing competitors in the hospital and post-acute healthcare information systems and services market include cerner corporation, edischarge, epic systems corporation, general electric company, maxsys ltd., mckesson corporation, medhost, meditech, midas+, picis, providerlink, quadramed, siemens ag and wellsoft. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures that we face will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. it is difficult to predict the sales cycle and implementation schedule for our software solutions. the duration of the sales cycle and implementation schedule for our software solutions depends on a number of factors, including the nature and size of the potential customer and the extent of the commitment being made by the potential customer, which is difficult to predict. our sales and marketing efforts with respect to hospitals and large health organizations generally involve a lengthy sales cycle due to these organizations’ complex decision-making processes. additionally, in light of increased government involvement in healthcare, and related changes in the operating environment for healthcare organizations, our current and potential customers may react by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our services. if potential customers take longer than we expect to decide whether to purchase our solutions, our selling expenses could increase and our revenues could decrease, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if customers take longer than we expect to implement our solutions, our recognition of related revenue would be delayed, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our future success depends upon our ability to grow, and if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may incur unexpected expenses and be unable to meet our customers’ requirements. we will need to expand our operations if we successfully achieve market acceptance for our products and services. we cannot be certain that our systems, procedures, controls and existing space will be adequate to support expansion of our operations. our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and   22 key employees to manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our technical, administrative, financial control and reporting systems. we may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases. difficulties in managing any future growth, including as a result of the eclipsys merger, could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations because we may incur unexpected expenses and be unable to meet our customers’ requirements. competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. our ability to provide high-quality services to our clients depends in large part upon our employees’ experience and expertise. we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel with a deep understanding of the healthcare and health information technology industries. we compete with a number of companies for experienced personnel and many of these companies, including clients and competitors, have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. in addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to clients and competitors who may seek to recruit them and increases the costs of replacing them. if we fail to retain our employees, the quality of our services could diminish, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we lose the services of our key personnel, we may be unable to replace them, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. our success largely depends on the continued skills, experience, efforts and policies of our management and other key personnel and our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees. in particular, the services of glen e. tullman, our chief executive officer, are integral to the execution of our business strategy. if one or more of our key employees leaves our employment, we will have to find a replacement with the attributes necessary to execute our strategy. the head of our sales team has recently resigned from our company and we are currently looking for a replacement for the general counsel. because competition for skilled employees is intense, and the process of finding qualified individuals can be lengthy and expensive, we believe that the loss of the services of key personnel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that we will continue to retain such personnel. we do not maintain keyman insurance for any of our key employees. if we are unable to successfully introduce new products or services or fail to keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. the successful implementation of our business model depends on our ability to adapt to evolving technologies and increasingly aggressive industry standards and introduce new products and services accordingly. we cannot assure you that we will be able to introduce new products on schedule, or at all, or that such products will achieve market acceptance. moreover, competitors may develop competitive products that could adversely affect our results of operations. a failure by us to introduce planned products or other new products or to introduce these products on schedule could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we cannot adapt to changing technologies, our products and services may become obsolete, and our business could suffer. because the health information technology market is characterized by rapid technological change, we may be unable to anticipate changes in our current and potential customers’ requirements that could make our existing technology obsolete. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and services, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers, license leading technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. the development of our   23 proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. we may not be successful in using new technologies effectively or adapting our proprietary technology to evolving customer requirements or emerging industry standards, and, as a result, our business could suffer. our business depends in part on and will continue to depend in part on our ability to establish and maintain additional strategic relationships. to be successful, we must continue to maintain our existing strategic relationships and establish additional strategic relationships with leaders in a number of healthcare and health information technology industry segments. this is critical to our success because we believe that these relationships contribute towards our ability to:     •   extend the reach of our products and services to a larger number of physicians and hospitals and to other participants in the healthcare industry;     •   develop and deploy new products and services;     •   further enhance the allscripts brand; and     •   generate additional revenue and cash flows. entering into strategic relationships is complicated because strategic partners may decide to compete with us in some or all of our markets. in addition, we may not be able to maintain or establish relationships with key participants in the healthcare industry if we conduct business with their competitors. we depend, in part, on our strategic partners’ ability to generate increased acceptance and use of our products and services. if we lose any of these strategic relationships or fail to establish additional relationships, or if our strategic relationships fail to benefit us as expected, we may not be able to execute our business plan, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. future acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of indebtedness and increased amortization expense. future acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the assumption of known and unknown liabilities, the write off of software development costs and the amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have taken, and, if an impairment occurs, could take, charges against earnings in connection with acquisitions. if our products fail to perform properly due to errors or similar problems, our business could suffer. complex software, such as ours, often contains defects or errors, some of which may remain undetected for a period of time. it is possible that such errors may be found after the introduction of new software or enhancements to existing software. we continually introduce new solutions and enhancements to our solutions, and, despite testing by us, it is possible that errors may occur in our software. if we detect any errors before we introduce a solution, we might have to delay deployment for an extended period of time while we address the problem. if we do not discover software errors that affect our new or current solutions or enhancements until after they are deployed, we would need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. errors in our software could result in:     •   harm to our reputation;     •   lost sales;     •   delays in commercial releases;     •   product liability claims;   24   •   delays in or loss of market acceptance of our solutions;     •   license terminations or renegotiations; and     •   unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. furthermore, our customers might use our software together with products from other companies or those that they have developed internally. as a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our solution development efforts, impact our reputation and cause significant customer relations problems. our business depends on our intellectual property rights, and if we are unable to protect them, our competitive position may suffer. our business plan is predicated on our proprietary systems and technology products. accordingly, protecting our intellectual property rights is critical to our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position. in addition to existing trademark, trade secret and copyright law, we protect our proprietary rights through confidentiality agreements and technical measures. we generally do not have any patents on our technology. we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees and consultants and limit access to our trade secrets and technology. nonetheless, in some instances, third parties may have access to source-code versions of software. furthermore, our use and distribution of open source software and modules in connection with our business also presents risks. open source commonly refers to software whose source code is subject to a license allowing it to be modified, combined with other software and redistributed, subject to restrictions set forth in the license. we cannot be certain that, under the terms of those licenses, our software will not become publicly available or that we will be found to be in material compliance with such agreements. we cannot assure you that the steps we have taken have and will continue to prevent misappropriation of our technology and misappropriations of our intellectual property have occurred in the past. misappropriation of our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our competitive position. in addition, we may have to engage in litigation in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of third-party intellectual property rights. we may incur substantial costs and the diversion of management’s time and attention as a result and an adverse decision could have a negative impact on our business. if we are deemed to infringe, misappropriate or violate the proprietary rights of third parties, we could incur unanticipated expense and be prevented from providing our products and services. we are and may continue to be subject to intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or other intellectual property violation claims as our applications’ functionality overlaps with competitive products and third parties may claim that we do not own or have rights to use all intellectual property rights used in the conduct of our business. we do not believe that we have infringed or are infringing on any valid or enforceable proprietary rights of third parties. however, claims are occasionally asserted against us, and we cannot assure you that infringement, misappropriation or claims alleging intellectual property violations will not be asserted against us in the future. also, we cannot assure you that any such claims will be unsuccessful. we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources defending any such claims. furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide products or services. in addition, we cannot assure you that licenses for any intellectual property of third parties that might be required for our products or services will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. such claims also might require indemnification of our clients at significant expense.   25 the outcome of any legal proceeding that has been or may be instituted against us could result in the payment of damages and/or may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to various claims, other pending and potential legal actions for damages and other matters arising in the normal conduct of our business. the outcome of any such litigation is inherently uncertain and we may incur substantial defense costs and expenses. the outcome of any such may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. on august 4, 2009, a lawsuit was filed in the united states district court for the northern district of illinois against us, glen tullman and william davis by the plumbers and pipefitters local union no. 630 pension-annuity trust fund on behalf of a purported class consisting of stockholders who purchased our common stock between may 8, 2007 and february 13, 2008. on october 13, 2009, david robb was appointed lead plaintiff, and on november 25, 2009, an amended complaint was filed containing allegations that we, tullman and davis made materially false and misleading statements and/or omissions in connection with the release of touchworks ehr, version 11. on january 11, 2010, we filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuit. on april 13, 2010, the court granted our motion to dismiss on the grounds that plaintiffs failed to sufficiently describe the confidential sources upon which the allegations in the amended complaint were based. on may 12, 2010, the court granted plaintiffs leave to replead. on may 14, 2010, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint, which attributed certain allegations to four different confidential witnesses, but made no other substantive changes. on june 11, 2010, we filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint. the motion is fully briefed and awaiting ruling. on april 22, 2009, doctors administrative solutions, llc (“das”), a former reseller of misys myway software, filed a lawsuit against allscripts, llc in state court in tampa, florida alleging breach of warranty, breach of contract, and tortious interference with prospective business relationships. allscripts, llc removed the case to the united states district court for the middle district of florida, after which das filed an amended complaint adding additional claims for breach of contract, specific performance, and declaratory judgment, and seeking damages and injunctive relief. the company answered and counterclaimed against das for breaches of contract and trademark infringement. the case is currently scheduled for a bench trial in may 2011. on september 14, 2010, pegasus imaging corporation (“pegasus”) filed a lawsuit against the company and allscriptsmisys, llc in the circuit court of the thirteenth judicial circuit of the state of florida in and for hillsborough county, florida. the lawsuit also named former officers jeffrey amrein and john reinhart as defendants. prior to serving the complaint, pegasus filed an amended complaint dropping two of the claims that had been asserted and adding two additional defendants, which are two now-defunct florida corporations that formerly did business with the company. the amended complaint asserts causes of action against defendants for fraudulent misrepresentations, negligent misrepresentations, and deceptive and unfair trade practices under florida law, arising from previous business dealings between pegasus and advanced imaging concepts, inc., a software company based in louisville, kentucky that the company purchased in august 2003. on or about november 1, 2010, defendants moved to transfer the case to the special court for complex business litigation that resides in hillsborough county, florida. the florida business court granted defendants’ motion for transfer on january 13, 2011. the defendants also filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint on november 16, 2010 and december 6, 2010, that are still pending before the florida business court. discovery in this matter is ongoing. no trial date has been set. if our content and service providers fail to perform adequately, or to comply with laws, regulations or contractual covenants, our reputation and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. we depend on independent content and service providers for communications and information services and for many of the benefits we provide through our software applications and services, including the maintenance of managed care pharmacy guidelines, drug interaction reviews, the routing of transaction data to third-party payers and the hosting of our applications. our ability to rely on these services could be impaired as a result of the failure of such providers to comply with applicable laws, regulations and contractual covenants, or as a result of   26 events affecting such providers, such as power loss, telecommunication failures, software or hardware errors, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems, fire, flood and natural disasters. any such failure or event could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and damage our reputation. this would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we may have no means of replacing content or services on a timely basis or at all if they are inadequate or in the event of a service interruption or failure. we also rely on independent content providers for the majority of the clinical, educational and other healthcare information that we provide. in addition, we depend on our content providers to deliver high quality content from reliable sources and to continually upgrade their content in response to demand and evolving healthcare industry trends. if these parties fail to develop and maintain high quality, attractive content, the value of our brand and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be impaired. we may be liable for use of content we provide. we provide content for use by healthcare providers in treating patients. third-party contractors provide us with most of this content. if this content is incorrect or incomplete, adverse consequences, including death, may occur and give rise to product liability and other claims against us. in addition, certain of our solutions provide applications that relate to patient clinical information, and a court or government agency may take the position that our delivery of health information directly, including through licensed practitioners, or delivery of information by a third party site that a consumer accesses through our websites, exposes us to personal injury liability, or other liability for wrongful delivery or handling of healthcare services or erroneous health information. while we maintain product liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, we cannot assure you that this coverage will prove to be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. a claim brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources. if our security is breached, we could be subject to liability, and customers could be deterred from using our services. our business relies on electronic transmission of confidential patient and other information. we believe that any well-publicized compromise of our network security or a misappropriation of patient information or other data would adversely affect our reputation and would require us to devote significant financial and other resources to alleviate such problems. in addition, our existing or potential customers could be deterred from using our products and services, and we could be subject to liability and regulatory action. we could face financial loss, litigation and other liabilities to the extent that our activities or the activities of third-party contractors involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, such as patient records or credit information. if we are unable to obtain additional financing for our future needs, our ability to respond to competitive pressures may be impaired and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. if adequate financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of potential acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance services or products, or respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. if we are forced to reduce our prices, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. we may be subject to pricing pressures with respect to our future sales arising from various sources, including practices of managed care organizations, group purchasing arrangements made through government   27 programs such as the regional extension centers, and government action affecting reimbursement levels affecting physicians, hospitals, home health professionals or any combination thereof under medicare, medicaid and other government health programs. our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship are affected by changes in statutes, regulations and limitations in governmental spending for medicare, medicaid and other programs. recent government actions and future legislative and administrative changes could limit government spending for the medicare and medicaid programs, limit payments to hospitals and other providers, increase emphasis on competition, impose price controls, initiate new and expanded value-based reimbursement programs and create other programs that potentially could have an adverse effect on our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. if our pricing experiences significant downward pressure, our business will be less profitable and our results of operations would be adversely affected. in addition, because cash from sales funds some of our working capital requirements, reduced profitability could require us to raise additional capital sooner than we would otherwise need. if we incur costs exceeding our insurance coverage in lawsuits pending against us or that are brought against us in the future, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are a defendant in lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business. in the event we are found liable in any lawsuits filed against us, and if our insurance coverage were unavailable or inadequate to satisfy these liabilities, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our failure to license and integrate third-party technologies could harm our business. we depend upon licenses for some of the technology used in our solutions from third-party vendors, and intend to continue licensing technologies from third parties. these technologies might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. most of these licenses can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. our inability to obtain, maintain or comply with any of these licenses could delay development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive and our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. in addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, we might not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions. if we fail to maintain and expand our business with our existing customers, or to effectively transition our customers to newer products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. our business model depends on our success with selling follow-on and incremental products and services to our existing customers. in addition, our success with certain clients requires our achieving interoperability among the products offered by legacy allscripts and legacy eclipsys in order to provide a single solution that connects healthcare providers across care settings. also critical to our success is our ability to sell our electronic health record products to legacy mhs’ practice management customer base. additionally, certain of our clinical solutions business unit customers initially purchase one or a limited number of our products and services. these customers might choose not to expand their use of, or purchase, additional modules. also, as we deploy new applications and features for our existing solutions or introduce new solutions and services, our current customers   28 could choose not to purchase these new offerings. if we fail to generate additional business from our current customers, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or even decrease. in addition, the transition of our existing customers to current versions of our products presents certain risks, including the risk of data loss or corruption, or delays in completion. if such events occur, our client relationships and reputation could be damaged, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. potential subsidy of services similar to ours may reduce client demand. federal regulations have been changed to permit subsidies from additional sources subject to certain limitations, and hitech provides federal support for certain electronic medical record initiatives. to the extent that we or our customers do not qualify or participate in such subsidy programs, demand for our services may be reduced, which may decrease our revenues. we currently rely on misys for the provision of certain corporate services, but going forward we will have to rely on our own resources and personnel to operate the business. on august 20, 2010, we entered into a transition services agreement with misys (the “transition services agreement”) pursuant to which each party will continue to provide to the other certain services and personnel to support the other’s business. the services that misys agreed to provide to us under the transition services agreement include research and development services, customer support services and information systems services, while we agreed to provide misys with financial services and tax services. beginning approximately six months after the date of the transition services agreement, certain services formerly provided by misys will need to be continued by either our existing or new employees, which may require us to devote time and resources to identifying, hiring and integrating individuals to perform the services formerly provided by misys pursuant to the transition services agreement. if misys fails to provide these services as required under the transition services agreement, or if the transition services agreement were terminated for any reason, or if we fail to obtain replacement services, we might incur significant costs to obtain replacement services. hitech is resulting in new business imperatives, and failure to provide our clients with health information technology systems that are “certified” under hitech could result in breach of some client obligations and put us at a competitive disadvantage. hitech, which is part of arra, provides financial incentives for hospitals and doctors that demonstrate that they are “meaningful electronic health record users,” and mandates use of health information technology systems that are “certified” according to technical standards developed under the supervision of the secretary of the department of health and human services. hitech also imposes certain requirements upon governmental agencies to use, and requires health care providers, health plans, and insurers contracting with such agencies to use, systems that are certified according to such standards. hitech can adversely affect our business in at least three ways. first, we have invested and continue to invest in conforming our applicable clinical software to these standards and further significant investment will be required as certification standards evolve (the full stage 2 requirements, for instance, are still in their early stages). second, recently signed customers and new client prospects are requiring us to agree that our software will be certified according to applicable hitech technical standards so that, assuming clients properly use the electronic health record software and satisfy the “meaningful use” and other requirements of hitech, they will qualify for available incentive payments. we plan to meet these requirements as part of our normal software maintenance obligations, and failure to comply could result in costly contract breach and jeopardize our relationships with clients who are relying upon us to provide certified software. third, if for some reason we are not able to comply with these hitech standards in a timely fashion after their issuance, our offerings will be at a severe competitive disadvantage in the market to the offerings of other electronic health record vendors who have complied.   29 changes in interoperability standards applicable to our software could require us to incur substantial additional development costs. our clients and the industry leaders enacting regulatory requirements are concerned with and often require that our software solutions and healthcare devices be interoperable with other third party health it suppliers. market forces or governmental/regulatory authorities could create software interoperability standards that would apply to our solutions, and if our software solutions and/or healthcare devices are not consistent with those standards, we could be forced to incur substantial additional development costs. the cchit has developed a comprehensive set of criteria for the functionality, interoperability and security of various software modules in the health it industry. cchit, however, continues to modify and refine those standards. achieving cchit certification is becoming a competitive requirement, resulting in increased software development and administrative expense to conform to these requirements. these standards and specifications, once finalized, will be subject to interpretation by the entities designated to certify such technology. we will incur increased development costs in delivering solutions if we need to upgrade our software and healthcare devices to be in compliance with these varying and evolving standards, and delays may result in connection therewith. if our software solutions and healthcare devices are not consistent with these evolving standards, our market position and sales could be impaired and we may have to invest significantly in changes to our software solutions and healthcare devices, although we do not expect such costs to be significant in relation to the overall development costs for our solutions. we are subject to a number of existing laws, regulations and industry initiatives, non-compliance with certain of which could materially adversely affect our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment. as a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and relationships, and those of our customers, are regulated by a number of federal, state and local governmental entities. the impact of this regulation on us is direct, to the extent we are ourselves subject to these laws and regulations, and is also indirect in that, in a number of situations, even though we may not be directly regulated by specific healthcare laws and regulations, our products must be capable of being used by our customers in a manner that complies with those laws and regulations. inability of our customers to do so could affect the marketability of our products or our compliance with our customer contracts, or even expose us to direct liability under the theory that we had assisted our customers in a violation of healthcare laws or regulations. because our business relationships with physicians are unique and the healthcare technology industry as a whole is relatively young, the application of many state and federal regulations to our business operations and to our customers is uncertain. indeed, there are federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and limitations on physician referrals, and laws related to distribution and marketing, including off-label promotion of prescription drugs that may be directly or indirectly applicable to our operations and relationships or the business practices of our customers. it is possible that a review of our business practices or those of our customers by courts or regulatory authorities could result in a determination that could adversely affect us. in addition, the healthcare regulatory environment may change in a way that restricts our existing operations or our growth. the healthcare industry is expected to continue to undergo significant changes for the foreseeable future, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot predict the effect of possible future legislation and regulation. specific risks include, but are not limited to, risks relating to:     •   patient information. as part of the operation of our business, our customers provide to us patient-identifiable medical information related to the prescription drugs that they prescribe and other aspects of patient treatment. government and industry legislation and rulemaking, especially hipaa, hitech and standards and requirements published by industry groups such as the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations, require the use of standard transactions, standard identifiers, security and other standards and requirements for the transmission of certain electronic health   30   information. national standards and procedures under hipaa include the “standards for electronic transactions and code sets” (the transaction standards); the “security standards” (the security standards); and the “standards for privacy of individually identifiable health information” (the privacy standards). the transaction standards require the use of specified data coding, formatting and content in all specified “health care transactions” conducted electronically. the security standards require the adoption of specified types of security for certain patient identifiable health information (called protected health information). the privacy standards grant a number of rights to individuals as to their protected health information and restrict the use and disclosure of protected health information by covered entities, defined as “health plans,” “health care providers, “and “health care clearinghouses.” we have reviewed our activities and believe that we are a covered entity to the extent that we maintain a “group health plan” for the benefit of our employees. we have taken steps we believe to be appropriate and required to bring our group health plan into compliance with hipaa and hitech. for our operating functions, we believe that we are a hybrid entity, with both covered and non-covered functions under hipaa. the payerpath portion of our business qualifies as a health care clearinghouse when it files electronic health care claims on behalf of health care providers that are subject to hipaa and hitech and we have instituted policies and procedures to comply with hipaa and hitech in that role. with respect to our other business functions, we do not believe we are a covered entity as a health care provider or as a health care clearinghouse; however, the definition of a health care clearinghouse is broad and we cannot offer any assurance that we could not be considered a health care clearinghouse under hipaa or that, if we are determined to be a healthcare clearinghouse, the consequences would not be adverse to our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, certain provisions of the privacy and security standards apply to third parties that create, access, or receive protected health information in order to perform a function or activity on behalf of a covered entity. such third parties are called “business associates.” covered entities must have a written “business associate agreement” with such third parties, containing specified written satisfactory assurances, consistent with the privacy and security standards and hitech and its implementing regulations, that the third party will safeguard protected health information that it creates or accesses and will fulfill other material obligations. most of our customers are covered entities, and we function in many of our relationships as a business associate of those customers. we would face liability under our business associate agreements and hipaa and hitech if we do not comply with our business associate obligations and applicable provisions of the privacy and security standards and hitech and its implementing regulations. the penalties for a violation of hipaa or hitech are significant and could have an adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and results of operations, if such penalties ever were imposed. additionally, covered entities that are providers are required to adopt a unique standard national provider identifier, or npi, for use in filing and processing health care claims and other transactions. subject to the discussion set forth above, we believe that the principal effects of hipaa are, first, to require that our systems be capable of being operated by us and our customers in a manner that is compliant with the various hipaa standards and, second, to require us to enter into and comply with business associate agreements with our covered entity customers. for most covered entities, the deadlines for compliance with the privacy standards and the transaction standards occurred in 2003. covered entities, with the exception of small health plans (as that term is defined by the privacy standards), were required to be in compliance with the security standards by april 20, 2005 and to use npis in standard transactions no later than the compliance dates, which was may 23, 2007, for all but small health plans, and may 23, 2008 for small health plans. we have policies and procedures that we believe comply with federal and state confidentiality requirements for the handling of protected health information that we receive and with our obligations under business associate agreements. in particular, we believe that our systems and products are capable of being used by or for our customers in compliance with the transaction standards and security standards and are capable of being used by or for our customers in compliance with the npi requirements. if, however, we do not follow those procedures and policies, or they are not sufficient to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of protected health information, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal liability, fines and lawsuits, termination of our customer contracts or our operations could be shut down. moreover,   31   because all hipaa standards and hitech implementing regulations and guidance are subject to change or interpretation, we cannot predict the full future impact of hipaa or hitech on our business and operations. in the event that the hipaa or hitech standards and compliance requirements change or are interpreted in a way that requires any material change to the way in which we do business, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. additionally, certain state laws are not preempted by hipaa and hitech and may impose independent obligations upon our customers or us. additional legislation governing the acquisition, storage and transmission or other dissemination of health record information and other personal information, including social security numbers, has been proposed at the state level. there can be no assurance that changes to state or federal laws will not materially restrict the ability of providers to submit information from patient records using our products and services.     •   electronic prescribing. the use of our software by physicians to perform a variety of functions, including electronic prescribing (eprescribing), which refers to the electronic routing of prescriptions to pharmacies and the ensuing dispensation, is governed by state and federal law, including fraud and abuse laws. states have differing prescription format requirements, which we have programmed into our software. many existing laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate methods of e-commerce now being developed. while federal law and the laws of many states permit the electronic transmission of certain prescription orders, the laws of several states neither specifically permit nor specifically prohibit the practice. restrictions exist at the federal level, however, on the use of eprescribing for controlled substances and certain other drugs, including a new regulation enacted by the drug enforcement association (dea) in mid-2010. given the rapid growth of electronic transactions in healthcare, and particularly the growth of the internet, we expect many additional states to directly address these areas with regulation in the near future. in addition, on november 7, 2005, the department of health and human services published its final “e-prescribing and the prescription drug program” regulations (e-prescribing regulations). these regulations are required by the medicare prescription drug, improvement, and modernization act of 2003 (mma) and became effective beginning on january 1, 2006. the e-prescribing regulations consist of detailed standards and requirements, in addition to the hipaa standard discussed above, for prescription and other information transmitted electronically in connection with a drug benefit covered by the mma’s prescription drug benefit. these standards cover not only transactions between prescribers and dispensers for prescriptions but also electronic eligibility and benefits inquiries and drug formulary and benefit coverage information. the standards apply to prescription drug plans participating in the mma’s prescription drug benefit. other rules governing eprescribing apply to other areas of medicare and to medicaid. the medicare improvements for patients and providers act of 2008 (mippa) authorized a new and separate incentive program for individual eligible professionals who are successful electronic prescribers as defined by mippa. this incentive program is separate from and is in addition to the quality reporting incentive program authorized by division b of the tax relief and health care act of 2006—medicare improvements and extension act of 2006 and which is known as the physician quality reporting initiative (pqri). eligible professionals do not need to participate in pqri to participate in the eprescribing incentive program, and both programs remain in effect in 2011 assuming compliance with certain requirements. to the extent that these new initiatives and regulations foster the accelerated adoption of eprescribing and allscripts is a leader in the eprescribing space, our business benefits from these incentive programs. but, hitech is the most prominent incentive program since its passage, reducing the impact the mippa and pqra programs have in spurring greater adoption of eprescribing or other health information technology. moreover, regulations in this area impose certain requirements which can be burdensome and evolve regularly, meaning that any potential benefits may be reversed by a newly-promulgated regulation that adversely affects our business model. aspects of our clinical products are affected by such regulation because of the need of our customers to comply, as discussed above. compliance with these regulations could be burdensome, time-consuming and expensive. we also are subject, as discussed above, to future legislation and regulations concerning the development and marketing of healthcare software systems or requirements related to product functionality. these could increase the cost and time necessary to market new services and could affect us in other respects not presently foreseeable.   32   •   electronic health records. a number of important federal and state laws govern the use and content of electronic health record systems, including fraud and abuse laws that may affect the donation of such technology. as a company that provides electronic health record systems to a variety of providers of healthcare, our systems and services must be designed in a manner that facilitates our customers’ compliance with these laws. because this is a topic of increasing state and federal regulation, we continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments that might affect our business practices as they relate to electronic health record systems, revenue cycle management systems, eprescribing and others. we cannot predict the content or effect of possible future regulation on our business practices. also, as described above under “risks related to our business,” our sunrise enterprise suite of solutions, allscripts ed, allscripts enterprise ehr, allscripts professional ehr, allscripts myway ehr and peakpractice ehr are all certified by an onc-approved certifying body as meeting the standards for functionality, interoperability and security under the hitech act. our failure to maintain this certification or otherwise meet industry standards would adversely impact our business.     •   claims transmission. our system electronically transmits claims for prescription medications dispensed by physicians to patients’ payers for immediate approval and reimbursement. federal law provides that it is both a civil and a criminal violation for any person to submit, or cause to be submitted, a claim to any payer, including, without limitation, medicare, medicaid and all private health plans and managed care plans, seeking payment for any services or products that overbills or bills for items that have not been provided to the patient. we have in place policies and procedures that we believe assure that all claims that are transmitted by our system are accurate and complete, provided that the information given to us by our customers is also accurate and complete. if, however, we do not follow those procedures and policies, or they are not sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims from being submitted, we could be subject to liability. as discussed above, the hipaa transaction standards and the hipaa security standards also affect our claims transmission services, since those services must be structured and provided in a way that supports our customers’ hipaa compliance obligations. furthermore, to the extent that there is some type of security breach, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.     •   medical devices. certain computer software products are regulated as medical devices under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. on february 15, 2011, the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) issued a final rule classifying medical device data systems from class iii to class i medical devices under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. we will evaluate what effect, if any, the rule has on our products. to the extent that any of our products meet the definition of a medical device data system, we, as a manufacturer of such products, would be required to register and list our products with the fda. in addition, medical device data system products would be subject to the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act’s general controls, including those relating to good manufacturing practices and adverse event reporting. the fda can impose extensive requirements governing product design controls and quality assurance processes. failure to comply with fda requirements can result in criminal and civil fines and penalties, product seizure, injunction, and civil monetary policies—each of which could have an adverse effect on our business. the fda may become increasingly active in regulating computer software intended for use in healthcare settings. depending on the product, we could be required to notify the fda and demonstrate substantial equivalence to other products on the market before marketing such products or obtain fda approval by demonstrating safety and effectiveness before marketing a product. depending on the intended use of a device, the fda could require us to obtain extensive data from clinical studies to demonstrate safety or effectiveness or substantial equivalence. if the fda requires these data, we could be required to obtain approval of an investigational device exemption before undertaking clinical trials. clinical trials can take extended periods of time to complete. we cannot provide assurances that the fda will approve or clear a device after the completion of such trials. in addition, these products would be subject to the federal food, drug and cosmetic act’s general controls. the fda can impose extensive requirements governing pre- and post-market conditions like approval, labeling and manufacturing.   33 additionally, recently enacted public laws reforming the u.s. healthcare system may have an impact on our business. the patient protection and affordable care act (h.r. 3590; public law 111-148) (“ppaca”) and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (h.r. 4872) (the “reconciliation act”), which amends the ppaca (collectively the “health reform laws”), were signed into law in march 2010. the health reform laws contain various provisions which may impact us and our customers. some of these provisions may have a positive impact by implementing reimbursement programs that reward providers for patient-centered, health it-dependent activities (e.g., accountable care organizations), for example, while others, such as reductions in reimbursement for certain types of providers, may have a negative impact due to fewer available resources. increases in fraud and abuse penalties may also adversely affect participants in the health care sector, including us. increased government involvement in healthcare could adversely affect our business. u.s. healthcare system reform at both the federal and state level, could increase government involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates and otherwise change the business environment of our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. we cannot predict whether or when future healthcare reform initiatives at the federal or state level or other initiatives affecting our business will be proposed, enacted or implemented or what impact those initiatives may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship could react to these initiatives and the uncertainty surrounding these proposals by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our products and services. additionally, the government has signaled increased enforcement activity targeting healthcare fraud and abuse, which could adversely impact our business, either directly or indirectly. to the extent that our customers, most of whom are providers, may be affected by this increased enforcement environment, our business could correspondingly be affected. additionally, government regulation could alter the clinical workflow of physicians, hospitals and other healthcare participants, thereby limiting the utility of our products and services to existing and potential customers and curtailing broad acceptance of our products and services. further examples of government involvement could include requiring the standardization of technology relating to electronic health records, providing customers with incentives to adopt electronic health record solutions or developing a low-cost government sponsored electronic health record solution, such as the vista-office electronic health record. additionally, certain safe harbors to the federal anti-kickback statute and corresponding exceptions to the federal stark law may alter the competitive landscape. these safe harbors and exceptions are intended to accelerate the adoption of electronic prescription systems and electronic health records systems, and therefore provide new and attractive opportunities for us to work with hospitals and other donors who wish to provide our solutions to physicians. at the same time, such safe harbors and exceptions may result in increased competition from providers of acute electronic health record solutions, whose hospital customers may seek to donate their existing acute electronic health record solutions to physicians for use in ambulatory settings. if the electronic healthcare information market fails to develop as quickly as expected, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. the electronic healthcare information market is in the early stages of development and is rapidly evolving. a number of market entrants have introduced or developed products and services that are competitive with one or more components of the solutions we offer. we expect that additional companies will continue to enter this market, especially in response to recent government subsidies. in new and rapidly evolving industries, there is significant uncertainty and risk as to the demand for, and market acceptance of, recently introduced products and services. because the markets for our products and services are new and evolving, we are not able to predict the size and growth rate of the markets with any certainty. we cannot assure you that markets for our products and services will develop or that, if they do, they will be strong and continue to grow at a sufficient pace. if markets fail to develop, develop more slowly than expected or become saturated with competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.   34 consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. many healthcare industry participants are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. as provider networks and managed care organizations consolidate, thus decreasing the number of market participants, competition to provide products and services like ours will become more intense, and the importance of establishing relationships with key industry participants will become greater. these industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. further, consolidation of management and billing services through integrated delivery systems may decrease demand for our products. if we were forced to reduce our prices, our business would become less profitable unless we were able to achieve corresponding reductions in our expenses. business disruptions could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services. a major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. risks related to our international business strategy our growing operations in india expose us to risks that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we have a significant workforce employed in india engaged in a broad range of development, support and corporate infrastructure activities that are integral to our business and critical to our profitability. further, while there are certain cost advantages to operating in india, significant growth in the technology sector in india has increased competition to attract and retain skilled employees with commensurate increases in compensation costs. in the future, we may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. many of the companies with which we compete for hiring experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. in addition, our operations in india require ongoing capital investments and expose us to foreign currency fluctuations, which may significantly reduce or negate any cost benefit anticipated from such expansion. in addition, our reliance on a workforce in india exposes us to disruptions in the business, political and economic environment in that region. maintenance of a stable political environment is important to our operations, and terrorist attacks and acts of violence or war may directly affect our physical facilities and workforce or contribute to general instability. our operations in india may also be affected by trade restrictions, such as tariffs or other trade controls, as well as other factors that may adversely affect our operations. our business strategy includes expansion into markets outside north america, which will require increased expenditures and if our international operations are not successfully implemented, such expansion may cause our operating results and reputation to suffer. we are working to expand operations in markets outside north america. there is no assurance that these efforts will be successful. we have limited experience in marketing, selling, implementing and supporting our software abroad. expansion of our international sales and operations will require a significant amount of attention from our management, establishment of service delivery and support capabilities to handle that business and commensurate financial resources, and will subject us to risks and challenges that we would not face if we conducted our business only in the united states. we may not generate sufficient revenues from international business to cover these expenses.   35 the risks and challenges associated with operations outside the united states may include: the need to modify our software to satisfy local requirements and standards, including associated expenses and time delays; laws and business practices favoring local competitors; compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including healthcare, employment, tax, privacy, healthcare information technology, and data and intellectual property protection laws and regulations; laws regulating exports of technology products from the united states; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; difficulties in setting up foreign operations, including recruiting staff and management; and longer accounts receivable payment cycles and other collection difficulties. one or more of these requirements and risks may preclude us from operating in some markets. foreign operations subject us to numerous stringent u.s. and foreign laws, including the foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and comparable foreign laws and regulations that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by u.s. and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. as we expand our international operations, there is some risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors, which could constitute a violation by eclipsys of various laws including the fcpa, even though such parties are not always subject to our control. safeguards we implement to discourage these practices may prove to be less than effective and violations of the fcpa and other laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, or other liabilities or proceedings against us, including class action law suits and enforcement actions from the sec, department of justice and overseas regulators. foreign operations present certain additional risks, including:     •   the general economic and political conditions existing in those countries;     •   difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign offices, and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal and compliance costs associated with multiple international locations;     •   devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates;     •   imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries;     •   imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;     •   imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments;     •   longer payment cycles; and     •   greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection. risks related to our common stock future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock that we may issue and our ability to raise funds in new securities offerings. future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. as of february 15, 2011, we had approximately:     •   189 million shares of common stock outstanding;     •   7 million shares of common stock reserved and available for issuance pursuant to outstanding stock options (at a weighted average exercise price of $10.08 per share); and     •   4 million shares of common stock reserved and available for issuance to settle outstanding restricted stock units.   36 in connection with our acquisition strategy, we may issue shares of our common stock as consideration in other acquisition transactions. we cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale will have on the trading price of our common stock. our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock and discourage a takeover. our board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights (except that shares of preferred stock may not have more than one vote per share), dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or in the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up and other terms. in the event that we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock that is convertible into our common stock at greater than a one-to-one ratio, the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. in addition, the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders may impede a takeover of us and prevent a transaction favorable to the holders of our common stock. other provisions of our charter documents and delaware law may delay or inhibit potential acquisition bids that stockholders may believe are desirable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. our charter documents include an election to be governed by section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which we refer to as the dgcl, which prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. these provisions will make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation and may apply even if some of our stockholders consider the proposed transaction beneficial to them. these provisions could also limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. our charter documents also contain provisions that may delay or inhibit potential acquisition bids, including provisions that:     •   our stockholders are not allowed to act by written consent; and     •   our stockholders are not allowed to call a special meeting of stockholders. our goodwill, which increased significantly as a result of the 2008 transactions and the eclipsys merger, could become impaired and adversely affect our net worth and the market value of our common stock. under the purchase method of accounting, our assets and liabilities were recorded, as of completion of the 2008 transactions, at their respective fair values and added to those of misys, which are carried at their book values. the purchase price for the 2008 transactions was allocated to legacy allscripts’ tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets, based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the 2008 transactions. the excess of $331 million of such price over those fair values has been recorded as goodwill. under the acquisition method of accounting, the purchase price paid in the eclipsys merger was allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed represent management’s best estimate of fair value. goodwill of $624 million was based on the residual difference between the purchase price and the value assigned to tangible and intangible assets and liabilities, and is not deductible for tax purposes. among the factors that contributed to a purchase price resulting in the recognition of goodwill were eclipsys’ history of profitability and high operating margins, strong sales force and overall employee base, and position in the healthcare information technology market.   37 goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. if the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value, impairment is deemed to have occurred and the carrying value of goodwill is written down to fair value. under gaap, this would result in a charge to our operating earnings. accordingly, any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill could have a material impact on our operating results. failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could have an adverse effect on our business and the trading price of our common stock. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented, or amended from time to time, we can make no assurance that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with section 404. additionally, if our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal controls over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated, tested or assessed, or if our independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then it may issue an adverse opinion. if we fail to maintain a system of effective internal controls, it could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by nasdaq, the sec or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. the market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. the market price of our common stock is volatile and could fluctuate significantly in response to the factors described above and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:     •   actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;     •   announcements of technological innovations or new services or products by our competitors or us;     •   changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;     •   conditions and trends in the electronic healthcare information, internet, e-commerce and pharmaceutical markets; and     •   general market conditions and other factors. in addition, the stock markets, especially the nasdaq global select market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies and internet-related companies in particular. these fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. these broad market factors may materially affect the trading price of our common stock. general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions and interest rate fluctuations may also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. volatility in the market price for our common stock may result in the filing of securities class action litigation. our quarterly operating results may vary. our quarterly operating results have varied in the past, and we expect that our quarterly operating results will continue to vary in future periods depending on a number of factors, some of which we have no control over, including customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance procedures, seasonal variances in demand for our products and services, the sales, service and implementation cycles for our software products, potential downturns in the healthcare market and in economic conditions generally, and other factors described in this “risk factors” section.   38 we base our expense levels in part upon our expectations concerning future revenue, and these expense levels are relatively fixed in the short term. if we have lower revenue than expected, we may not be able to reduce our spending in the short term in response. any shortfall in revenue would have a direct impact on our results of operations. in addition, our product sales cycle for larger sales is lengthy and unpredictable, making it difficult to estimate our future bookings for any given period. if we do not achieve projected booking targets for a given period, securities analysts may change their recommendations on our common stock. for these and other reasons, we may not meet the earnings estimates of securities analysts or investors, and our stock price could suffer. our indebtedness will decrease business flexibility and increase borrowing costs. as of december 31, 2010, $489,125 in borrowings and $1,921 in letters of credit were outstanding under the credit agreement. the covenants in such indebtedness and the increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio in comparison to our debt-to-equity ratio on a recent historical basis could have the effect, among other things, of:     •   requiring us to apply a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;     •   increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions;     •   limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in business and the industry in which we operate;     •   placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and     •   limiting our ability to borrow additional funds on terms that are satisfactory or at all. if we fail to comply with financial covenants under our credit facilities, our results of operation and financial condition could be adversely affected. our credit facilities contain certain financial covenants, including interest coverage and total leverage ratios. if we fail to comply with these covenants, an event of default may occur, resulting in, among other things, the requirement to immediately repay all outstanding amounts owed thereunder. depending on borrowing levels in such an event, our liquid assets might not be sufficient to repay in full the debt outstanding under the credit facilities. such an acceleration also would expose us to the risk of liquidation of collateral assets at unfavorable prices. coniston, inc. (which changed its name to coniston exchange llc) may be liable for significant potential contingent tax liabilities arising out of the misys transactions and certain related transactions, or out of prior activities of coniston exchange llc unrelated to those transactions. coniston, inc. (which changed its name to coniston exchange llc), a delaware limited liability company acquired by us in exchange for approximately 61.3 million shares of our common stock issued to subsidiaries of misys (which transaction we refer to as the exchange), might be subject to significant taxes, which we refer to as transaction taxes, arising out of the exchange, certain share repurchases by us from subsidiaries of misys and certain related restructuring transactions, which we refer to collectively as the misys transactions. in particular, the exchange or other misys transactions might have resulted in the recognition of the built-in gain inherent in our shares of common stock held by coniston exchange llc, which is significant. at the time of the exchange, coniston exchange llc held approximately 61.3 million shares of our common stock. pursuant to the framework agreement, misys agreed to indemnify us against any transaction taxes imposed on coniston exchange llc. on november 3, 2010, coniston exchange llc received a letter ruling from the internal revenue service, which we refer to as the irs, in response to a request submitted to the irs by misys on august 9, 2010. the letter ruling confirms, in effect, that the misys transactions will not result in the recognition of the built-in gain inherent in our shares of common stock held by coniston exchange llc, and addresses certain other tax issues related to the misys transactions.   39 the ability to rely on any letter ruling depends on the accuracy and completeness of the information submitted to the irs, which was primarily determined by misys as the party that requested the letter ruling from the irs. if any factual statements or representations submitted to the irs were incorrect or untrue in any material respect, the letter ruling could be invalidated. as a result, no assurances can be given that our ability to rely on the letter ruling could not be challenged, in which case we would be required to rely on misys’ indemnification obligation and ability to satisfy such indemnification obligation. additionally, while the letter ruling addresses the material tax issues related to the misys transactions, not all issues were addressed. pursuant to the framework agreement, misys has also agreed to indemnify us against any contingent tax liability of coniston exchange llc other than transaction taxes, such as taxes imposed as a result of prior activities of coniston exchange llc, which we refer to as historic taxes, and misys provided a bank guarantee in the amount of $45 million to support that indemnification obligation. the amount of the bank guarantee might be insufficient to fully cover historic taxes that might be imposed. furthermore, although not expected, there could be circumstances in which the bank guarantee is reduced or terminated prior to the extinguishment of the resulting tax liabilities. misys also has agreed to indemnify us from taxes imposed on us as a result of the exchange and from taxes imposed on us relating to certain withholding taxes, including any liability for failing to withhold certain taxes. those indemnification obligations are not supported by a bank guarantee. item 1b. unresolved