item 1a. risk factors. our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and may in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. except for the historical information in this report, the matters contained in this report include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. the following   19 table of contents factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations, and financial condition. risks related to our business — general we operate in a highly competitive industry, and if we are not able to compete effectively, our business and operating results will be harmed. the provision by third parties of revenue cycle services to medical practices has historically been dominated by small service providers who offer highly individualized services and a high degree of specialized knowledge applicable in many cases to a limited medical specialty, a limited set of payers, or a limited geographical area. we anticipate that the software, statistical, and database tools that are available to such service providers will continue to become more sophisticated and effective and that demand for our services could be adversely affected. revenue cycle software for medical practices has historically been dominated by large, well-financed and technologically sophisticated entities that have focused on software solutions. some of these entities are now offering “on-demand” services or a “software-as-a-service” model under which software is centrally administered, and administrative services may be provided on a vendor basis. the size, financial strength, and breadth of offerings of these entities is increasing as a result of continued consolidation in both the information technology and health care industries. we expect large integrated technology companies to become more active in our markets, both through acquisition and internal investment. as costs fall and technology improves, increased market saturation may change the competitive landscape in favor of competitors with greater scale than we possess. some of our current large competitors, such as ge healthcare, sage software healthcare, inc., allscripts-misys healthcare solutions, inc., quality systems, inc., siemens medical solutions usa, inc., and mckesson corp. have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, and significantly greater resources than we do. as a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or client requirements. in addition, current and potential competitors have established, and may in the future establish, cooperative relationships with vendors of complementary products, technologies, or services to increase the availability of their products to the marketplace. current or future competitors may consolidate to improve the breadth of their products, directly competing with our integrated offerings. accordingly, new competitors or alliances may emerge that have greater market share, larger client bases, more widely adopted proprietary technologies, broader offerings, greater marketing expertise, greater financial resources, and larger sales forces than we have, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. further, in light of these advantages, even if our services are more effective than the product or service offerings of our competitors, current or potential clients might accept competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our services. increased competition is likely to result in pricing pressures, which could negatively impact our sales, profitability, or market share. in addition to new niche vendors, who offer stand-alone products and services, we face competition from existing enterprise vendors, including those currently focused on software solutions, which have information systems in place with clients in our target market. these existing enterprise vendors may now, or in the future, offer or promise products or services with less functionality than our services, but that offer ease of integration with existing systems and that leverage existing vendor relationships. the market for internet-based medical business services may not develop substantially further or develop more slowly than we expect, harming the growth of our business. the market for internet-based medical business services is still relatively new and narrowly based, and it is uncertain whether these services will achieve and sustain the high levels of demand and market acceptance we anticipate. our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of enterprises, large and small, to   20 table of contents increase their use of on-demand business services in general, and for their revenue, clinical and patient cycles in particular. many enterprises have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate established enterprise software into their businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to switch to an on-demand application service. furthermore, some enterprises may be reluctant or unwilling to use on-demand application services, because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with security capabilities, among other things, of the technology delivery model associated with these services. if enterprises do not perceive the benefits of our services, then the market for these services may not expand as much or develop as quickly as we expect, either of which would significantly adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. if we do not continue to innovate and provide services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. our success depends on providing services that the medical community uses to improve business performance and quality of service to patients. our competitors are constantly developing products and services that may become more efficient or appealing to our clients. as a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing services and introduce new high-quality services that clients will want. if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our services on a timely basis, we may lose clients. our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our clients, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, or are not effectively brought to market. as technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer results that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar to or better than those generated by our services. this may force us to compete on additional service attributes and to expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. failure to manage our rapid growth effectively could increase our expenses, decrease our revenue, and prevent us from implementing our business strategy. we have been experiencing a period of rapid growth. to manage our anticipated future growth effectively, we must continue to maintain, and may need to enhance, our information technology infrastructure and financial and accounting systems and controls, as well as manage expanded operations in geographically distributed locations. we also must attract, train, and retain a significant number of qualified sales and marketing personnel, professional services personnel, software engineers, technical personnel, and management personnel. failure to manage our rapid growth effectively could lead us to over-invest or under-invest in technology and operations; result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, systems, or controls; give rise to operational mistakes, losses, or loss of productivity or business opportunities; and result in loss of employees and reduced productivity of remaining employees. our growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of new services. if our management is unable to effectively manage our growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our revenue could decline or may grow more slowly than expected, and we may be unable to implement our business strategy. we may be unable to adequately protect, and we may incur significant costs in enforcing, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. our success depends in part on our ability to enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. we rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent, and unfair competition laws, as well as license and access agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. in addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring certain of our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality, noncompetition, and assignment of inventions agreements. our attempts to protect our intellectual property may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. while we have two issued u.s. patent and have sixteen more u.s. patent applications and seven foreign patent applications pending as of december 31, 2011, we may be unable to obtain further meaningful patent protection for our technology. in addition, any patents issued in the future may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be successfully challenged by third parties.   21 table of contents agreement terms that address non-competition are difficult to enforce in many jurisdictions and may not be enforceable in any particular case. to the extent that our intellectual property and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected, third parties might gain access to our proprietary information, develop and market products or services similar to ours, or use trademarks similar to ours, each of which could materially harm our business. existing u.s. federal and state intellectual property laws offer only limited protection. moreover, the laws of other countries in which we now or may in the future conduct operations or contract for services may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. further, our platform incorporates open source software components that are licensed to us under various public domain licenses. while we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses, and therefore the potential impact of such terms on our business is somewhat unknown. the failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights could materially harm our business. in addition, if we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. any litigation that may be necessary in the future could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. we may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. the software and internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks, and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. moreover, our business involves the systematic gathering and analysis of data about the requirements and behaviors of payers and other third parties, some or all of which may be claimed to be confidential or proprietary. we have received in the past, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties claiming that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others. for example, in 2010 a complaint was filed by prompt medical systems, l.p. naming us and several other defendants alleging infringement of its patent with a listed issue date in 1996 entitled “method for computing current procedural terminology codes from physician generated documentation.” for additional information regarding this litigation, see part i, item 3, “legal proceedings.” our technologies may not be able to withstand such third-party claims of rights against their use. any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, divert management attention from executing our business plan, and require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. in addition, many of our contracts contain warranties with respect to intellectual property rights, and some require us to indemnify our clients for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling on such a claim. moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from such a claim could require us to pay substantial amounts of money or obtain a license to continue to use the technology or information that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology or information. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, from third parties asserting an infringement claim; that we would be able to develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all; or that we would be able to obtain a license to use a suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our clients to continue using, our affected services. accordingly, an adverse determination could prevent us from offering our services to others. in addition, we may be required to indemnify our clients for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling for such a claim. current and future litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. we may from time to time be subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by our clients in connection with commercial disputes and employment claims   22 table of contents made by our current or former employees. claims may also be asserted by or on behalf of a variety of other parties, including patients of our physician clients, government agencies, or stockholders. any litigation involving us may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, overall financial condition, and operating results. insurance may not cover existing or future claims, be sufficient to fully compensate us for one or more of such claims, or continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. a claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, thereby reducing our operating results and leading analysts or potential investors to reduce their expectations of our performance resulting in a reduction in the trading price of our stock. risks related to our business — operations we depend upon two third-party service providers for important processing functions. if either of these third-party providers does not fulfill its contractual obligations or chooses to discontinue its services, our business and operations could be disrupted and our operating results would be harmed. we have entered into service agreements with international business machines corporation and vision business process solutions inc., a subsidiary of dell, inc. (formerly perot systems corporation), to provide data entry and other services from facilities located in india and the philippines to support our client service operations. among other things, these providers process critical claims data and clinical documents. if these services fail or are of poor quality, our business, reputation, and operating results could be harmed. failure of either service provider to perform satisfactorily could result in client dissatisfaction, disrupt our operations, and adversely affect operating results. with respect to these service providers, we have significantly less control over the systems and processes involved than if we maintained and operated them ourselves, which increases our risk. in some cases, functions necessary to our business are performed on proprietary systems and software to which we have no access. if we need to find an alternative source for performing these functions, we may have to expend significant money, resources, and time to develop the alternative, and if this development is not accomplished in a timely manner and without significant disruption to our business, we may be unable to fulfill our responsibilities to clients or the expectations of clients, with the attendant potential for liability claims and a loss of business reputation, loss of ability to attract or maintain clients, and reduction of our revenue or operating margin. various risks could affect our worldwide operations, exposing us to significant costs. we conduct operations in the united states, india, and the philippines, either directly or through our service providers. such worldwide operations expose us to potential operational disruptions and costs as a result of a wide variety of events, including local inflation or economic downturn, currency exchange fluctuations, political turmoil, terrorism, labor issues, natural disasters, and pandemics. any such disruptions or costs could have a negative effect on our ability to provide our services or meet our contractual obligations, the cost of our services, client satisfaction, our ability to attract or maintain clients, and, ultimately, our profits. because competition for our target employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. to continue to execute on our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. competition for these personnel is intense, especially for senior sales executives and engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services. we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. we have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they are to receive in connection with their employment. volatility in the price of our stock may, therefore, adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. furthermore, the requirements to expense equity awards may discourage us from granting   23 table of contents the size or type of equity awards that job candidates require to join our company. if we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. if we acquire companies or technologies in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and adversely affect our operating results and the value of our common stock. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire, enter into joint ventures with, or make investments in complementary companies, services, and technologies in the future. acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including:     •   difficulties in identifying and acquiring products, technologies, or businesses that will help our business;     •   difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services, and personnel;     •   diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations;     •   the risk of entering new markets in which we have little to no experience;     •   risks related to the assumption of known and unknown liabilities;     •   the risk of write-offs and the amortization of expenses related intangible assets and     •   delays in client purchases due to uncertainty and the inability to maintain relationships with clients of the acquired businesses. as a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate, and management resources and attention may be diverted from other necessary or valuable activities. risks related to our business — financials our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly, and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price and the value of your investment could decline substantially. our operating results are likely to fluctuate, and if we fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. moreover, our stock price may be based on expectations of our future performance that may be unrealistic or that may not be met. some of the important factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include:     •   the extent to which our services achieve or maintain market acceptance;     •   our ability to introduce new services and enhancements to our existing services on a timely basis;     •   new competitors and the introduction of enhanced products and services from new or existing competitors;     •   the length of our contracting and implementation cycles;     •   changes in client days in accounts receivable;     •   the severity, length, and timing of seasonal and pandemic illnesses;     •   seasonal declines in the use of physician services, generally in the late summer and during the holiday season, which lead to a decline in collections by our physician clients about 30 to 50 days later;     •   the financial condition of our current and potential clients;   24 table of contents   •   changes in client budgets and procurement policies;     •   the amount and timing of our investment in research and development activities;     •   the amount and timing of our investment in sales and marketing activities;     •   technical difficulties or interruptions in our services;     •   our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel and maintain an adequate rate of expansion of our sales force;     •   changes in the regulatory environment related to health care;     •   regulatory compliance costs;     •   the timing, size, and integration success of potential future acquisitions; and     •   unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation and settlement costs. many of these factors are not within our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them might cause our operating results to vary widely. as such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. a significant portion of our operating expense is relatively fixed in nature, and planned expenditures are based in part on expectations regarding future revenue and profitability. accordingly, unexpected revenue shortfalls, lower than expected revenue increases as a result of planned expenditures, and longer than expected impact on profitability and margins as a result of planned revenue expenditures may decrease our gross margins and profitability and could cause significant changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. in addition, our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could fall substantially either suddenly or over time. if the revenue of our clients decreases, or if our clients cancel or elect not to renew their contracts, our revenue will decrease. under most of our client contracts, we base our charges on a percentage of the revenue that the client realizes while using our services. many factors may lead to decreases in client revenue, including:     •   interruption of client access to our system for any reason;     •   our failure to provide services in a timely or high-quality manner;     •   failure of our clients to adopt or maintain effective business practices;     •   actions by third-party payers of medical claims to reduce reimbursement;     •   government regulations and government or other payer actions reducing or delaying reimbursement; and     •   reduction of client revenue resulting from increased competition or other changes in the marketplace for physician services. the current economic situation may give rise to several of these factors. for example, patients who have lost health insurance coverage due to unemployment or who face increased deductibles imposed by financially struggling employers or insurers could reduce the number of visits those patients make to our physician clients. patients without health insurance or with reduced coverage may also default on their payment obligations at a higher rate than patients with coverage. added financial stress on our clients could lead to their acquisition or bankruptcy, which could cause the termination of some of our service relationships. further, despite the cost benefits that we believe our services provide, prospective clients may wish to delay contract decisions due to   25 table of contents implementation costs or be reluctant to make any material changes in their established business methods in the current economic climate. with a reduction in tax revenue, state and federal government health care programs, including reimbursement programs such as medicaid, may be reduced or eliminated, which could negatively impact the payments that our clients receive. also, although we currently estimate our expected customer life to be twelve years, this is only an estimate and there can be no assurance that our clients will elect to renew their contracts for this period of time. our clients typically purchase one-year contracts that, in most cases, may be terminated on 90 days notice without cause. if our clients’ revenue decreases for any of the above or other reasons, or if our clients cancel or elect not to renew their contracts, our revenue will decrease. if we are required to collect sales and use taxes on the services we sell in additional jurisdictions, we may be subject to liability for past sales and incur additional related costs and expenses, and our future sales may decrease. we may lose sales or incur significant expenses should states be successful in imposing state sales and use taxes on our services. a successful assertion by one or more states that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers, and otherwise harm our business. each state has different rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. we review these rules and regulations periodically and, when we believe our services are subject to sales and use taxes in a particular state, voluntarily engage state tax authorities in order to determine how to comply with their rules and regulations. we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to sales and use taxes or related penalties for past sales in states where we believe no compliance is necessary. vendors of services, like us, are typically held responsible by taxing authorities for the collection and payment of any applicable sales and similar taxes. if one or more taxing authorities determines that taxes should have, but have not, been paid with respect to our services, we may be liable for past taxes in addition to taxes going forward. liability for past taxes may also include very substantial interest and penalty charges. our client contracts provide that our clients must pay all applicable sales and similar taxes. nevertheless, clients may be reluctant to pay back taxes and may refuse responsibility for interest or penalties associated with those taxes. if we are required to collect and pay back taxes and the associated interest and penalties, and if our clients fail or refuse to reimburse us for all or a portion of these amounts, we will have incurred unplanned expenses that may be substantial. moreover, imposition of such taxes on our services going forward will effectively increase the cost of such services to our clients and may adversely affect our ability to retain existing clients or to gain new clients in the areas in which such taxes are imposed. we may also become subject to tax audits or similar procedures in states where we already pay sales and use taxes. the incurrence of additional accounting and legal costs and related expenses in connection with, and the assessment of taxes, interest, and penalties as a result of, audits, litigation, or otherwise could be materially adverse to our current and future results of operations and financial condition. as a result of our variable sales and implementation cycles, we may be unable to recognize revenue to offset expenditures, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations or otherwise harm our future operating results. the sales cycle for our services can be variable, typically ranging from three to five months from initial contact to contract execution. during the sales cycle, we expend time and resources, and we do not recognize any revenue to offset such expenditures. our implementation cycle is also variable, typically ranging from three to five months from contract execution to completion of implementation. some of our new-client set-up projects are complex and require a lengthy delay and significant implementation work. each client’s situation is different, and unanticipated difficulties and delays may arise as a result of failure by us or by the client to meet our respective implementation responsibilities. in some cases, especially those involving larger clients, the sales cycle and the implementation cycle may exceed the typical ranges by substantial margins. during the   26 table of contents implementation cycle, we expend substantial time, effort, and financial resources implementing our services, but accounting principles do not allow us to recognize the resulting revenue until the service has been implemented, at which time we begin recognition of implementation revenue over an expected attribution period of the longer of the estimated expected customer life, currently twelve years, or the contract term. after a client contract is signed, we provide an implementation process for the client during which appropriate connections and registrations are established and checked, data is loaded into our athenanet system, data tables are set up, and practice personnel are given initial training. the length and details of this implementation process vary widely from client to client. typically, implementation of larger clients takes longer than implementation for smaller clients. implementation for a given client may be cancelled. our contracts typically provide that they can be terminated for any reason or for no reason in 90 days. despite the fact that we typically require a deposit in advance of implementation, some clients have cancelled before our services have been started. in addition, implementation may be delayed or the target dates for completion may be extended into the future for a variety of reasons, including the needs and requirements of the client, delays with payer processing, and the volume and complexity of the implementations awaiting our work. if implementation periods are extended, our provision of the revenue cycle, clinical cycle, or patient cycle services upon which we realize most of our revenues will be delayed, and our financial condition may be adversely affected. in addition, cancellation of any implementation after it has begun may involve loss to us of time, effort, and expenses invested in the cancelled implementation process and lost opportunity for implementing paying clients in that same period of time. these factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, particularly in the near term and during any period in which our sales volume is relatively low. as a result, in future quarters our operating results could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which event our stock price would likely decrease. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board (“fasb”) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, which is periodically revised or expanded. accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the fasb and the sec. it is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. risks related to our service offerings our proprietary software or our services may not operate properly, which could damage our reputation, give rise to claims against us, or divert application of our resources from other purposes, any of which could harm our business and operating results. proprietary software development is time-consuming, expensive, and complex. unforeseen difficulties can arise. we may encounter technical obstacles, and it is possible that we discover additional problems that prevent our proprietary athenanet application from operating properly. if athenanet does not function reliably or fails to achieve client expectations in terms of performance, clients could assert liability claims against us and/or attempt to cancel their contracts with us. this could damage our reputation and impair our ability to attract or maintain clients. moreover, information services as complex as those we offer have in the past contained, and may in the future develop or contain, undetected defects or errors. we cannot assure you that material performance problems or defects in our services will not arise in the future. errors may result from receipt, entry, or interpretation of patient information or from interface of our services with legacy systems and data that we did   27 table of contents not develop and the function of which is outside of our control. despite testing, defects or errors may arise in our existing or new software or service processes. because changes in payer requirements and practices are frequent and sometimes difficult to determine except through trial and error, we are continuously discovering defects and errors in our software and service processes compared against these requirements and practices. these defects and errors and any failure by us to identify and address them could result in loss of revenue or market share, liability to clients or others, failure to achieve market acceptance or expansion, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, and increased service and maintenance costs. defects or errors in our software and service processes might discourage existing or potential clients from purchasing services from us. correction of defects or errors could prove to be impossible or impracticable. the costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors or in responding to resulting claims or liability may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, clients relying on our services to collect, manage, and report clinical, business, and administrative data may have a greater sensitivity to service errors and security vulnerabilities than clients of software products in general. we market and sell services that, among other things, provide information to assist care providers in tracking and treating ill patients. any operational delay in or failure of our technology or service processes may result in the disruption of patient care and could cause harm to patients and thereby harm our business and operating results. our clients or their patients may assert claims against us alleging that they suffered damages due to a defect, error, or other failure of our software or service processes. a product liability claim or errors or omissions claim could subject us to significant legal defense costs and adverse publicity, regardless of the merits or eventual outcome of such a claim. if our security measures are breached or fail, and unauthorized access is obtained to a client’s data, our services may be perceived as not being secure, clients may curtail or stop using our services, and we may incur significant liabilities. our services involve the web-based storage and transmission of clients’ proprietary information and protected health information of patients. because of the sensitivity of this information, security features of our software are very important. from time to time we may detect vulnerabilities in our systems, which, even if they do not result in a security breach, may reduce customer confidence and require substantial resources to address. if our security measures are breached or fail as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, insufficiency, defective design, or otherwise, someone may be able to obtain unauthorized access to client or patient data. as a result, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer, and we could face damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, and significant costs for remediation and efforts to prevent future occurrences. we rely upon our clients as users of our system for key activities to promote security of the system and the data within it, such as administration of client-side access credentialing and control of client-side display of data. on occasion, our clients have failed to perform these activities. failure of clients to perform these activities may result in claims against us that this reliance was misplaced, which could expose us to significant expense and harm to our reputation. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and clients. in addition, our clients may authorize or enable third parties to access their client data or the data of their patients on our systems. because we do not control such access, we cannot ensure the complete propriety of that access or integrity or security of such data in our systems. failure by our clients to obtain proper permissions and waivers may result in claims against us or may limit or prevent our use of data, which could harm our business. we require our clients to provide necessary notices and to obtain necessary permissions and waivers for use and disclosure of the information that we receive, and we require contractual assurances from them that they   28 table of contents have done so and will do so. if they do not obtain necessary permissions and waivers, then our use and disclosure of information that we receive from them or on their behalf may be limited or prohibited by state or federal privacy laws or other laws. this could impair our functions, processes, and databases that reflect, contain, or are based upon such data and may prevent use of such data. in addition, this could interfere with or prevent creation or use of rules, and analyses or limit other data-driven activities that benefit us. moreover, we may be subject to claims or liability for use or disclosure of information by reason of lack of valid notice, permission, or waiver. these claims or liabilities could subject us to unexpected costs and adversely affect our operating results. various events could interrupt clients’ access to athenanet, exposing us to significant costs. the ability to access athenanet is critical to our clients’ administering care, cash flow, and business viability. our operations and facilities are vulnerable to interruption and/or damage from a number of sources, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation: (i) power loss and telecommunications failures; (ii) fire, flood, hurricane, and other natural disasters; (iii) software and hardware errors, failures, or crashes in our own systems or in other systems; and (iv) computer viruses, hacking, and similar disruptive problems in our own systems and in other systems. we attempt to mitigate these risks through various means, including redundant infrastructure, disaster recovery plans, business continuity plans, separate test systems, and change control and system security measures, but our precautions will not protect against all potential problems. if clients’ access is interrupted because of problems in the operation of our facilities, we could be exposed to significant claims by clients or their patients, particularly if the access interruption is associated with problems in the timely delivery of funds due to clients or medical information relevant to patient care. our plans for disaster recovery and business continuity rely upon third-party providers of related services, and if those vendors fail us at a time that our systems are not operating correctly, we could incur a loss of revenue and liability for failure to fulfill our obligations. any significant instances of system downtime could negatively affect our reputation and ability to retain clients and sell our services, which would adversely impact our revenues. in addition, retention and availability of patient care and physician reimbursement data are subject to federal and state laws governing record retention, accuracy, and access. some laws impose obligations on our clients and on us to produce information to third parties and to amend or expunge data at their direction. our failure to meet these obligations may result in liability that could increase our costs and reduce our operating results. interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data-hosting facilities could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. we currently serve our clients from a third-party data-hosting facility located in bedford, massachusetts, operated by digital 55 middlesex, llc (as successor to sentinel properties-bedford, llc). in addition, in december 2009 we signed a contract with a major provider of disaster recovery services, sungard availability services, lp, to store our disaster recovery plans, and provide disaster recovery testing services. in the case of a significant event at our primary data center, we could become operational in a reasonable timeframe at our backup data center. however, these facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events. they are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, and similar misconduct. despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at both facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. even with the disaster recovery arrangements, our services could be interrupted.   29 table of contents we rely on internet infrastructure, bandwidth providers, data center providers, other third parties, and our own systems for providing services to our users, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by these third parties or our own systems could expose us to litigation and negatively impact our relationships with users, adversely affecting our brand and our business. our ability to deliver our internet- and telecommunications-based services is dependent on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the internet and other telecommunications services by third parties. this includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity, and security for providing reliable internet access and services and reliable telephone, facsimile, and pager systems. our services are designed to operate without interruption in accordance with our service level commitments. however, we have experienced and expect that we will in the future experience interruptions and delays in services and availability from time to time. we rely on internal systems as well as third-party vendors, including data center, bandwidth, and telecommunications equipment providers, to provide our services. we do not maintain redundant systems or facilities for some of these services. in the event of a catastrophic event with respect to one or more of these systems or facilities, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our relationship with users. to operate without interruption, both we and our service providers must guard against:     •   damage from fire, power loss, and other natural disasters;     •   communications failures;     •   software and hardware errors, failures, and crashes;     •   security breaches, computer viruses, and similar disruptive problems; and     •   other potential interruptions. any disruption in the network access, telecommunications, or co-location services provided by these third-party providers or any failure of or by these third-party providers or our own systems to handle current or higher volume of use could significantly harm our business. we exercise limited control over these third-party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with services they provide. any errors, failures, interruptions, or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services or our own systems could negatively impact our relationships with users and adversely affect our business and could expose us to third-party liabilities. although we maintain insurance for our business, the coverage under our policies may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost. the reliability and performance of the internet may be harmed by increased usage or by denial-of-service attacks. the internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damages to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. these outages and delays could reduce the level of internet usage as well as the availability of the internet to us for delivery of our internet-based services. we rely on third-party computer hardware and software that may be difficult to replace or that could cause errors or failures of our services, which could damage our reputation, harm our ability to attract and maintain clients, and decrease our revenue. we rely on computer hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties in order to offer our services, including database software from oracle corporation and storage devices from international business machines corporation and emc corporation. these licenses are generally commercially available on varying terms; however, it is possible that this hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. any loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could result in delays in the provisioning of our services until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if   30 table of contents available, is identified, obtained, and integrated, which could harm our business. any errors or defects in third-party hardware or software could result in errors or a failure of our services, which could damage our reputation, harm our ability to attract and maintain clients, and decrease our revenue. we are subject to the effect of payer and provider conduct that we cannot control and that could damage our reputation with clients and result in liability claims that increase our expenses. we offer certain electronic claims submission services for which we rely on content from clients, payers, and others. while we have implemented certain features and safeguards designed to maximize the accuracy and completeness of claims content, these features and safeguards may not be sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims data from being submitted to payers. should inaccurate claims data be submitted to payers, we may experience poor operational results and may be subject to liability claims, which could damage our reputation with clients and result in liability claims that increase our expenses. if our services fail to provide accurate and timely information, or if our content or any other element of any of our services is associated with faulty clinical decisions or treatment, we could have liability to clients, clinicians, or patients, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our software, content, and services are used to assist clinical decision-making and provide information about patient medical histories and treatment plans. if our software, content, or services fail to provide accurate and timely information or are associated with faulty clinical decisions or treatment, then clients, clinicians, or their patients could assert claims against us that could result in substantial costs to us, harm our reputation in the industry, and cause demand for our services to decline. our proprietary athenaclinicals service is utilized in clinical decision-making, provides access to patient medical histories, and assists in creating patient treatment plans, including the issuance of prescription drugs. if our athenaclinicals service fails to provide accurate and timely information, or if our content or any other element of that service is associated with faulty clinical decisions or treatment, we could have liability to clients, clinicians, or patients. the assertion of such claims and ensuing litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial cost to us, divert management’s attention from operations, damage our reputation, and decrease market acceptance of our services. we attempt to limit by contract our liability for damages and to require that our clients assume responsibility for medical care and approve key system rules, protocols, and data. despite these precautions, the allocations of responsibility and limitations of liability set forth in our contracts may not be enforceable, be binding upon patients, or otherwise protect us from liability for damages. we maintain general liability and insurance coverage, but this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us. in addition, the insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claim. one or more large claims could exceed our available insurance coverage. our proprietary software may contain errors or failures that are not detected until after the software is introduced or updates and new versions are released. it is challenging for us to test our software for all potential problems because it is difficult to simulate the wide variety of computing environments or treatment methodologies that our clients may deploy or rely upon. from time to time we have discovered defects or errors in our software, and such defects or errors can be expected to appear in the future. defects and errors that are not timely detected and remedied could expose us to risk of liability to clients, clinicians, and patients and cause delays in introduction of new services, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, require design modifications, or decrease market acceptance or client satisfaction with our services.   31 table of contents if any of these risks occur, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we may be liable for use of incorrect or incomplete data that we provide, which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we store and display data for use by health care providers in treating patients. our clients or third parties provide us with most of these data. if these data are incorrect or incomplete or if we make mistakes in the capture or input of these data, adverse consequences, including death, may occur and give rise to product liability and other claims against us. in addition, a court or government agency may take the position that our storage and display of health information exposes us to personal injury liability or other liability for wrongful delivery or handling of health care services or erroneous health information. while we maintain insurance coverage, we cannot assure that this coverage will prove to be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources. a claim brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. risks related to regulation government regulation of health care creates risks and challenges with respect to our compliance efforts and our business strategies. the health care industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory, and other influences. existing and new laws and regulations affecting the health care industry could create unexpected liabilities for us, cause us to incur additional costs, and restrict our operations. many health care laws are complex, and their application to specific services and relationships may not be clear. in particular, many existing health care laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate the health care information services that we provide, and these laws and regulations may be applied to our services in ways that we do not anticipate. our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations, or our other failure to comply, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity, and negatively affect our business. some of the risks we face from health care regulation are described below: false or fraudulent claim laws.    there are numerous federal and state laws that forbid submission of false information, or the failure to disclose information, in connection with submission and payment of physician claims for reimbursement. in some cases, these laws also forbid abuse in connection with such submission and payment. any failure of our services to comply with these laws and regulations could result in substantial liability (including, but not limited to, criminal liability), adversely affect demand for our services, and force us to expend significant capital, research and development, and other resources to address the failure. errors by us or our systems with respect to entry, formatting, preparation, or transmission of claim information may be determined or alleged to be in violation of these laws and regulations. any determination by a court or regulatory agency that our services violate these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, invalidate all or portions of some of our client contracts, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our services fees, cause us to be disqualified from serving clients doing business with government payers, and have an adverse effect on our business. in most cases where we are permitted to do so, we calculate charges for our services based on a percentage of the collections that our clients receive as a result of our services. to the extent that violations or liability for violations of these laws and regulations require intent, it may be alleged that this percentage calculation provides us or our employees with incentive to commit or overlook fraud or abuse in connection with submission and payment of reimbursement claims. the u.s. centers for medicare and medicaid services has stated that it is concerned that percentage-based billing services may encourage billing companies to commit or to overlook fraudulent or abusive practices.     32 table of contents in addition, we may contract with third parties that offer software relating to the selection or verification of codes used to identify and classify the services for which reimbursement is sought. submission of codes that do not accurately reflect the services provided or the location or method of their provision may constitute a violation of false or fraudulent claims laws. our ability to comply with these laws depends on the coding decisions made by our clients and the accuracy of our vendors’ software and services in suggesting possible codes to our clients and verifying that proper codes have been selected. hipaa and other health privacy regulations.    there are numerous federal and state laws related to patient privacy. in particular, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, includes privacy standards that protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosures of individually identifiable health information and implementing data security standards that require covered entities to implement administrative, physical, and technological safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and security of individually identifiable health information in electronic form. hipaa also specifies formats that must be used in certain electronic transactions, such as claims, payment advice, and eligibility inquiries. because we translate electronic transactions to and from hipaa-prescribed electronic formats and other forms, we are a clearinghouse and, as such, a covered entity. in addition, our clients are also covered entities and are mandated by hipaa to enter into written agreements with us — known as business associate agreements — that require us to safeguard individually identifiable health information. business associate agreements typically include:     •   a description of our permitted uses of individually identifiable health information;     •   a covenant not to disclose the information except as permitted under the agreement and to make our subcontractors, if any, subject to the same restrictions;     •   assurances that appropriate administrative, physical, and technical safeguards are in place to prevent misuse of the information;     •   an obligation to report to our client any use or disclosure of the information other than as provided for in the agreement;     •   a prohibition against our use or disclosure of the information if a similar use or disclosure by our client would violate the hipaa standards;     •   the ability of our clients to terminate the underlying support agreement if we breach a material term of the business associate agreement and are unable to cure the breach;     •   the requirement to return or destroy all individually identifiable health information at the end of our support agreement; and     •   access by the department of health and human services to our internal practices, books, and records to validate that we are safeguarding individually identifiable health information. we may not be able to adequately address the business risks created by hipaa implementation. furthermore, we are unable to predict what changes to hipaa or other laws or regulations might be made in the future or how those changes could affect our business or the costs of compliance. for example, the provisions of the hitech act and the regulations issued under it have provided and are expected to provide clarification of certain aspects of both the privacy and security rules, expansion of the disclosure requirements for a breach of the security rule, and strengthening of the civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with hipaa. in addition, onchit is coordinating the ongoing development of national standards for creating an interoperable health information technology infrastructure based on the widespread adoption of electronic health records in the health care sector. we are unable to predict what, if any, impact the changes in such standards will have on our compliance costs or our services. in addition, some payers and clearinghouses with which we conduct business interpret hipaa transaction requirements differently than we do. where clearinghouses or payers require conformity with their interpretations as a condition of effecting transactions, we seek to comply with their interpretations.     33 table of contents the hipaa transaction standards include proper use of procedure and diagnosis codes. since these codes are selected or approved by our clients, and since we do not verify their propriety, some of our capability to comply with the transaction standards is dependent on the proper conduct of our clients. among our services, we provide telephone reminder services to patients, internet- and telephone-based access to medical test results, pager and email notification to practices of patient calls, and patient call answering services. we believe that reasonable efforts to prevent disclosure of individually identifiable health information have been and are being taken in connection with these services, including the use of multiple-password security. however, any failure of our clients to provide accurate contact information for their patients or physicians or any breach of our telecommunications systems could result in a disclosure of individually identifiable health information. in addition to the hipaa privacy and security rules and the hitech act requirements, most states have enacted patient confidentiality laws that protect against the disclosure of confidential medical and other personally identifiable information, and many states have adopted or are considering further legislation in this area, including privacy safeguards, security standards, and data security breach notification requirements. such state laws, if more stringent than hipaa and hitech act requirements, are not preempted by the federal requirements, and we are required to comply with them. failure by us to comply with any of the federal and state standards regarding patient privacy may subject us to penalties, including civil monetary penalties and, in some circumstances, criminal penalties. in addition, such failure may injure our reputation and adversely affect our ability to retain clients and attract new clients. we are subject to a variety of other regulatory schemes, including:     •   anti-kickback and anti-bribery laws.    there are federal and state laws that govern patient referrals, physician financial relationships, and inducements to health care providers and patients. for example, the federal health care programs’ anti-kickback law prohibits any person or entity from offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving anything of value, directly or indirectly, for the referral of patients covered by medicare, medicaid, and other federal health care programs or the leasing, purchasing, ordering, or arranging for or recommending the lease, purchase, or order of any item, good, facility, or service covered by these programs. many states also have similar anti-kickback laws that are not necessarily limited to items or services for which payment is made by a federal health care program. moreover, both federal and state laws forbid bribery and similar behavior. any determination by a state or federal regulatory agency that any of our activities or those of our clients, vendors, or channel partners violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund a portion of our service fees, disqualify us from providing services to clients doing business with government programs, and have an adverse effect on our business. for example, one aspect of our athenacoordinator service is the preparation and submission of electronic orders from providers to other participants in the health care system (e.g., hospitals, labs, and specialists). as the recipients of those orders will in certain instances pay us for the submission of accurate, complete, and readable orders instead of the handwritten and often incomplete orders traditionally submitted, our service could potentially be seen as providing referrals to the order recipients in exchange for payment. although the office of inspector general issued an advisory opinion in november 2011 stating that our receipt of payments in such instances would not violate federal anti-kickback laws, we cannot predict whether changes in the law or our services might lead to a challenge of the legality of those services by government regulators. even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require a costly response from us.     •   anti-referral laws.    there are federal and state laws that forbid payment for patient referrals, patient brokering, remuneration of patients, or billing based on referrals between individuals and/or entities that have various financial, ownership, or other business relationships with health care providers. in many cases, billing for care arising from such actions is illegal. these vary widely from state to state, and one   34 table of contents   of the federal laws — called the stark law — is very complex in its application. any determination by a state or federal regulatory agency that any of our clients violate or have violated any of these laws may result in allegations that claims that we have processed or forwarded are improper. this could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our services fees, and have an adverse effect on our business. even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require a costly response from us.     •   corporate practice of medicine laws and fee-splitting laws.    many states have laws forbidding physicians from practicing medicine in partnership with non-physicians, such as business corporations. in some states, including new york, these take the form of laws or regulations forbidding splitting of physician fees with non-physicians or others. in some cases, these laws have been interpreted to prevent business service providers from charging their physician clients on the basis of a percentage of collections or charges. we have varied our charge structure in some states to comply with these laws, which may make our services less desirable to potential clients. any determination by a state court or regulatory agency that our service contracts with our clients violate these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, invalidate all or portions of some of our client contracts, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our services fees, and have an adverse effect on our business. even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require a costly response from us.     •   anti-assignment laws.    there are federal and state laws that prohibit or limit assignment of claims for reimbursement from government-funded programs. in some cases, these laws have been interpreted in regulations or policy statements to limit the manner in which business service companies may handle checks or other payments for such claims and to limit or prevent such companies from charging their physician clients on the basis of a percentage of collections or charges. any determination by a state court or regulatory agency that our service contracts with our clients violate these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, invalidate all or portions of some of our client contracts, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our services fees, and have an adverse effect on our business. even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require a costly response from us.     •   prescribing laws.    the use of our software by physicians to perform a variety of functions relating to prescriptions, including electronic prescribing, electronic routing of prescriptions to pharmacies, and dispensing of medication, is governed by state and federal law, including fraud and abuse laws, drug control regulations, and state department of health regulations. states have differing prescription format requirements, and, due in part to recent industry initiatives, federal law and the laws of all 50 states now provide a regulatory framework for the electronic transmission of prescription orders. regulatory authorities such as the u.s. department of health and human services’ centers for medicare and medicaid services may impose functionality standards with regard to electronic prescribing and ehr technologies. any determination that we or our clients have violated prescribing laws may expose us to liability, loss of reputation, and loss of business. these laws and requirements may also increase the cost and time necessary to market new services and could affect us in other respects not presently foreseeable.     •   electronic health records laws.    a number of federal and state laws govern the use and content of electronic health record systems, including fraud and abuse laws that may affect how such technology is provided. as a company that provides ehr functionality, our systems and services must be designed in a manner that facilitates our clients’ compliance with these laws. because this is a topic of increasing state and federal regulation, we expect additional and continuing modification of the current legal and regulatory environment. we cannot predict the content or effect of possible future regulation on our business activities. the software component of our athenaclinicals service was certified as a 2011/2012 compliant complete ehr by cchit, an onc-atcb, in accordance with the applicable certification criteria adopted by the secretary of the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs). the 2011/2012 criteria support the stage 1 meaningful use measures required to qualify eligible providers and   35 table of contents   hospitals for funding under the hitech act. however, such certification does not represent an endorsement of our athenaclinicals service by hhs or guarantee the receipt of incentive payments. while we believe that our system is well designed in terms of function and interoperability, we cannot be certain that it will meet future requirements.     •   claims transmission laws.    our services include the manual and electronic transmission of our client’s claims for reimbursement from payers. federal and various state laws provide for civil and criminal penalties for any person who submits, or causes to be submitted, a claim to any payer (including, without limitation, medicare, medicaid, and any private health plans and managed care plans) that is false or that overbills or bills for items that have not been provided to the patient. although we do not determine what is billed to a payer, to the extent that such laws apply to a service that merely transmits claims on behalf of others, we could be subject to the same civil and criminal penalties as our clients.     •   prompt pay laws.    laws in many states govern prompt payment obligations for health care services. these laws generally define claims payment processes and set specific time frames for submission, payment, and appeal steps. they frequently also define and require clean claims. failure to meet these requirements and timeframes may result in rejection or delay of claims. failure of our services to comply may adversely affect our business results and give rise to liability claims by clients.     •   medical device laws.    the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) has promulgated a draft policy for the regulation of computer software products as medical devices under the 1976 medical device amendments to the federal food, drug and cosmetic act. in addition, in february 2011 the fda issued a final rule regarding regulation of medical device data systems (mddss), which are systems that are intended to transfer, store, convert, or display medical device data. while ehrs are expressly exempted from the final rule, it is possible that future changes in our services could involve the transfer, storage, conversion, or display of medical device data. to the extent that computer software is a medical device under the policy or our software is considered an mdds under the final rule, we, as a provider of application functionality, could be required, depending on the functionality, to:     •   register and list our products with the fda;     •   notify the fda and demonstrate substantial equivalence to other products on the market before marketing our functionality; or     •   obtain fda approval by demonstrating safety and effectiveness before marketing our functionality. the fda can impose extensive requirements governing pre- and post-market conditions, such as service investigation and others relating to approval, labeling, and manufacturing. in addition, the fda can impose extensive requirements governing development controls and quality assurance processes. potential health care reform and new regulatory requirements placed on our software, services, and content could impose increased costs on us, delay or prevent our introduction of new services types, and impair the function or value of our existing service types. our services may be significantly impacted by health care reform initiatives and are subject to increasing regulatory requirements, either of which could affect our business in a multitude of ways. if substantive health care reform or applicable regulatory requirements are adopted, we may have to change or adapt our services and software to comply. reform or changing regulatory requirements may also render our services obsolete or may block us from accomplishing our work or from developing new services. this may in turn impose additional costs upon us to adapt to the new operating environment or to further develop services or software. for example, the conversion to the icd-10 standard for coding medical diagnoses and the version 5010 hipaa standard for the transmission of electronic transactions will likely cause significant disruption to our industry and consume a large amount of resources on our part. such reforms may also make introduction of new service types more costly or more time consuming than we currently anticipate. such changes may even prevent introduction by us of new services or make the continuation of our existing services unprofitable or impossible.   36 table of contents potential additional regulation of the disclosure of health information outside the united states may adversely affect our operations and may increase our costs. federal or state governmental authorities may impose additional data security standards or additional privacy or other restrictions on the collection, use, transmission, and other disclosures of health information. legislation has been proposed at various times at both the federal and the state level that would limit, forbid, or regulate the use or transmission of medical information outside of the united states. such legislation, if adopted, may render our use of our off-shore partners, such as our data-entry and customer service providers, international business machines corporation and vision business process solutions inc., for work related to such data impracticable or substantially more expensive. alternative processing of such information within the united states may involve substantial delay in implementation and increased cost. changes in the health care industry could affect the demand for our services, cause our existing contracts to terminate, and negatively impact the process of negotiating future contracts. as the health care industry evolves, changes in our client and vendor bases may reduce the demand for our services, result in the termination of existing contracts, and make it more difficult to negotiate new contracts on terms that are acceptable to us. for example, the current trend toward consolidation of health care providers within hospital systems may cause our existing client contracts to terminate as independent practices are merged into hospital systems. such larger health care organizations may also have their own practice management services and health it systems, reducing demand for our services. similarly, client and vendor consolidation results in fewer, larger entities with increased bargaining power and the ability to demand terms that are unfavorable to us. if these trends continue, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to maintain or expand our client base, negotiate contracts with acceptable terms, or maintain our current pricing structure, and our revenues may decrease. errors or illegal activity on the part of our clients may result in claims against us. we require our clients to provide us with accurate and appropriate data and directives for our actions. we also rely upon our clients as users of our system to perform key activities in order to produce proper claims for reimbursement. failure of our clients to provide these data and directives or to perform these activities may result in claims against us alleging that our reliance was misplaced or unreasonable or that we have facilitated or otherwise participated in submission of false claims. if participants in our channel marketing and sales lead programs do not maintain appropriate relationships with current and potential clients, our sales accomplished with their help or data may be unwound and our payments to them may be deemed improper. we maintain a series of relationships with third parties that we term “channel relationships.” these relationships take different forms under different contractual language. some relationships help us identify sales leads. other relationships permit third parties to act as value-added resellers or as independent sales representatives for our services. in some cases, for example in the case of some membership organizations, these relationships involve endorsement of our services as well as other marketing activities. in each of these cases, we require contractually that the third party disclose information to and/or limit their relationships with potential purchasers of our services for regulatory compliance reasons. if these third parties do not comply with these regulatory requirements or if our requirements are deemed insufficient, sales accomplished with the data or help that they have provided as well as the channel relationship themselves may not be enforceable, may be unwound, and may be deemed to violate relevant laws or regulations. third parties that, despite our requirements, exercise undue influence over decisions by current and prospective clients, occupy positions with obligations of fidelity or fiduciary obligations to current and prospective clients, or who offer bribes or kickbacks to current and prospective clients or their employees may be committing wrongful or illegal acts that could render any resulting contract between us and the client unenforceable or in violation of relevant laws or regulations. any misconduct   37 table of contents by these third parties with respect to current or prospective clients, any failure to follow contractual requirements, or any insufficiency of those contractual requirements may result in allegations that we have encouraged or participated in wrongful or illegal behavior and that payments to such third parties under our channel contracts are improper. this misconduct could subject us to civil or criminal claims and liabilities, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our services fees, and adversely affect our revenue and operating margin. even an unsuccessful challenge of our activities could result in adverse publicity, require costly response from us, impair our ability to attract and maintain clients, and lead analysts or investors to reduce their expectations of our performance, resulting in reduction in the market price of our stock. our services present the potential for embezzlement, identity theft, or other similar illegal behavior by our employees or subcontractors with respect to third parties. among other things, our services involve handling mail from payers and from patients for many of our clients, and this mail frequently includes original checks and/or credit card information and occasionally includes currency. even in those cases in which we do not handle original documents or mail, our services also involve the use and disclosure of personal and business information that could be used to impersonate third parties or otherwise gain access to their data or funds. if any of our employees or subcontractors takes, converts, or misuses such funds, documents, or data, we could be liable for damages, and our business reputation could be damaged or destroyed. in addition, we could be perceived to have facilitated or participated in illegal misappropriation of funds, documents, or data and therefore be subject to civil or criminal liability. potential subsidy of services similar to ours may reduce client demand. recently, entities such as the massachusetts healthcare consortium have offered to subsidize adoption by physicians of ehr technology. in addition, federal regulations have been changed to permit such subsidy from additional sources subject to certain limitations, and the current administration has passed the hitech act, which will provide federal support for ehr initiatives. to the extent that we do not qualify or participate in such subsidy programs, demand for our services may be reduced, which may decrease our revenues. risks related to ownership of our common stock the price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. the trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to remain highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control or unrelated to our operating performance. in addition to the factors discussed in this “risk factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, these factors include:     •   the operating performance of similar companies;     •   the overall performance of the equity markets;     •   announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, business plans, or commercial relationships;     •   threatened or actual litigation;     •   changes in laws or regulations relating to the sale of health insurance;     •   any major change in our board of directors or management;     •   publication of research reports or news stories about us, our competitors, or our industry or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts;     •   large volumes of sales of our shares of common stock by existing stockholders; and     •   general political and economic conditions.     38 table of contents in addition, the stock market in general, and the market for internet-related companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities. this litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs; divert our management’s attention and resources; and harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. if a substantial number of shares become available for sale and are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline. if our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately 35.4 million shares of common stock outstanding. moreover, the holders of shares of common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the shares they currently hold, or to include these shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. we have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our 1997 stock plan, 2000 stock plan, 2007 stock option and incentive plan, and 2007 employee stock purchase plan. as of december 31, 2011, we had outstanding options to purchase approximately 2.9 million shares of common stock (approximately 1.5 million of which were exercisable at december 31, 2011) that, if exercised, will result in those shares becoming available for sale in the public market. as of december 31, 2011, we had outstanding restricted stock units totaling approximately 0.8 million that, if vested, will result in those shares becoming available for sale in the public market. if a large number of these shares are sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. actual or potential sales of our stock by our employees, including members of our senior management team, pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans could cause our stock price to fall or prevent it from increasing for numerous reasons, and actual or potential sales by such persons could be viewed negatively by other investors. in accordance with the guidelines specified under rule 10b5-1 of the securities and exchange act of 1934 and our policies regarding stock transactions, a number of our directors and employees, including members of our senior management team, have adopted and will continue to adopt pre-arranged stock trading plans to sell a portion of our common stock. generally, stock sales under such plans by members of our senior management team and directors require public filings. actual or potential sales of our stock by such persons could cause our stock price to fall or prevent it from increasing for numerous reasons. for example, actual or potential sales by such persons could be viewed negatively by other investors. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws or delaware law might discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and delaware law may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, acquisition, or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. these provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. these provisions include:     •   limitations on the removal of directors;     •   advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations;   39 table of contents   •   the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and     •   the ability of our board of directors to make, alter, or repeal our by-laws. the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. as our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the effective number of votes required to make such changes could increase. also, absent approval of our board of directors, our by-laws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder (generally an entity that, together with its affiliates, owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% or more of our voting stock) for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the entity became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. the existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. they could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. we currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future, and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. there is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares.   item 1b. unresolved