item 1a. risk factors. our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and may in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. except for the historical information in this report, the matters contained in this report include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations, and financial condition. risks related to our business — general we operate in a highly competitive industry, and if we are not able to compete effectively, our business and operating results will be harmed. the provision by third parties of revenue cycle services to medical practices has historically been dominated by small service providers who offer highly individualized services and a high degree of specialized knowledge applicable in many cases to a limited medical specialty, a limited set of payers, or a limited geographical area. we anticipate that the software, statistical, and database tools that are available to such service providers will continue to become more sophisticated and effective and that demand for our services could be adversely affected. revenue cycle and clinical cycle software for medical practices has historically been dominated by large, well-financed, and technologically sophisticated entities that have focused on software solutions. some of these entities are now offering “on-demand” services or a “software-as-a-service” model under which software is centrally administered, and these vendors may also provide administrative services. the size, financial strength, and breadth of offerings of the larger entities is increasing as a result of continued consolidation in both the information technology and health care industries. we expect large integrated technology companies to continue to become more active in our markets, both through acquisition and internal investment. as costs fall and technology improves, increased market saturation may change the competitive landscape in favor of competitors with greater scale than we possess. in addition, a few smaller companies have started providing single-instance, internet-based software using a model similar to ours; the offerings of these smaller companies may reduce the perceived competitive advantage of our services and impact our market share. further, while the market for patient communication and referral management services is growing and is not as yet dominated by a small group of vendors with significant resources, our patient and referral cycle services face competition from a wide variety of market participants. for example, certain health systems have developed their own patient portals or referral management systems. if we fail to distinguish our patient and referral cycle offerings from the other options available to health care providers, the demand for and market share of those offerings may decrease. in regard to our epocrates services, we compete with other companies for users of the types of drug and clinical reference tools that we offer and for budget dollars from our pharmaceutical, managed care, and market research clients. we compete within a broad industry of health care content providers for the attention of health care professionals who can choose to use mobile, online or print media to reference clinical information. companies providing clinical content include medscape, a division of webmd, llc, and uptodate, inc., a division of wolters kluwer health. competition from each of these sources of clinical reference content may lead to a loss of our existing network members and a reduction in the rate at which we attract new members for our clinical information. our primary competition for the promotional spend available from our pharmaceutical clients in the area of interactive services is from companies, including webmd, that help such companies market their products, programs, and services to health care professionals. our market research business competes with numerous companies that recruit physicians to participate in surveys in a variety of formats, as well as the recruitment arms of market research companies that have assembled their own survey panels of health care professionals. to the extent competing channels are available to access health care professionals, including physicians, the value of our interactive services to our clients is reduced. some of our current large competitors, such as allscripts-misys healthcare solutions, inc.; epic systems corporation; ge healthcare; mckesson corp.; quality systems, inc.; sage software healthcare, inc.; and siemens medical solutions usa, inc., have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, and significantly greater resources than we do. as a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or client requirements. in addition, current and potential competitors have established, and may in the future establish, cooperative relationships with vendors of complementary products, technologies, or services to increase the availability of their products to the marketplace. current or future competitors may consolidate to improve the breadth of their products, directly competing with our integrated offerings. accordingly, new competitors or alliances may emerge that have greater market share, larger client bases, more widely adopted proprietary technologies, broader offerings, greater marketing 14 table of contents expertise, greater financial resources, and larger sales forces than we have, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. further, in light of these advantages, even if our services are more effective than the product or service offerings of our competitors, current or potential clients might accept competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our services. increased competition is likely to result in pricing pressures, which could negatively impact our sales, profitability, or market share. in addition to new niche vendors, who offer stand-alone products and services, we face competition from existing enterprise vendors, including those currently focused on software solutions, which have information systems in place with clients in our target markets. these existing enterprise vendors may now, or in the future, offer or promise products or services with less functionality than our services, but that offer ease of integration with existing systems and that leverage existing vendor relationships. if we are unable to retain existing members of our epocrates network and attract new members, especially physician members with desired characteristics for our interactive services who actively participate in those services, our revenue will decline, the anticipated benefits of our epocrates acquisition may not be realized, and our business will suffer. most of the members of our epocrates network use only our free drug reference product and may stop using the products at any time without loss. members who subscribe to our premium drug and clinical reference products usually do so for a term of one year and have no obligation to renew their subscriptions when such subscriptions expire. under certain circumstances, our members may cancel their subscriptions prior to expiration. factors that may affect the retention rate of our existing members and the rate at which we attract new members for our drug and clinical reference tools include: • service relevance.    unless we are able to provide current, relevant, and reliable health care content, drug and clinical reference tools, formulary hosting, and other services that meet and continue to meet the needs of health care professionals, including physicians, the value of those services to new and existing members will decrease. our provision of such services depends on our ability to hire and retain qualified physician and pharmacist editors and authors, license accurate and relevant content from third parties, contract with health plans and insurers to host formulary information, monitor and respond to changes in member interest in specific topics, and develop new or enhanced services. if we cannot meet our staffing needs or develop or acquire needed content at a reasonable cost, if there are errors or omissions in such content, if our competitors obtain exclusive access to or develop content that health care professionals consider superior to ours, or if we cannot meet the needs of our members, the value of our content and services would diminish. • brand reputation.    the reputation of our epocrates brand is dependent in large part on the medical community’s continued perception of us as independent from our health care industry clients, particularly pharmaceutical companies. if health care professionals believe that we are too closely associated with such clients as a result of the revenue we receive from their purchase or sponsorship of our interactive services, the credibility of our brand will diminish. although we take precautions to remain independent from our health care industry clients, including separating the development of our application content from our commercial dealings with such clients and clearly labeling the source and responsibility of sponsored messages, programs, and activities, we cannot assure you that the medical community will view our content as sufficiently unbiased. if the reputation of our brand is damaged, it will be difficult, expensive and time-consuming to restore the quality of our brand with health care professionals and our business could suffer. • competitive landscape.    if the developers of mobile operating systems and mobile devices with which our products and services are compatible fail to remain competitive in the marketplace and to be adopted into medical practice and practice workflow, members will be less inclined to use our services. the availability, price, performance, and functionality of competing products and services, including mobile, web-based, and traditional products and services offered by competitors or through online resources and searches may affect our retention rate and the rate at which we attract new members for our drug and clinical reference tools. the availability of download sites such as the apple app storesm that offer numerous free or low-priced competing products at one location has also reduced the demand for our paid subscription products. we expect the use of such sites to expand, reducing the number of paying members for our drug and clinical reference tools as a percentage of total members. in addition to the loss of subscription revenue, our inability to attract or retain members, especially physician members with desired characteristics, such as specialty and prescribing habits, who update their mobile devices through our servers with sufficient frequency, may cause an even more significant decline in revenue from our interactive services. our market research, payer, and pharmaceutical clients are attracted to our large, engaged member network for the delivery of their clinical messages, formularies, and other sponsored content, and, without sufficient active members who meet desired criteria, those clients may reduce their subscription for our interactive services, and our revenue may decline. even if the number of our members is not materially reduced, their participation in our services may decrease, which could impact our revenues. we have established limits on the number and the mix of sponsored and non-sponsored messages delivered to members in order to promote the quality of members’ experience with our services. if an insufficient number of 15 table of contents members update during a given service period, or the demand for promotional clinical messaging sponsorship exceeds the available supply, our health care clients could become dissatisfied with our service. as a result, we may be unable to grow our interactive services revenue beyond the bounds we have set, as changes to such limits could cause our members to be dissatisfied with our services and the response to our interactive services to decrease. furthermore, if our members generally become less responsive to participating in our services, the value of these interactive services will likely decline. this could cause our revenue to remain flat or to decline. finally, if there is a reduction in the number of network members or their participation in our services, certain anticipated benefits of our acquisition of epocrates, such as increased name recognition and reputation, cross-sell potential, and the market acceptance of joint services may not be fully realized, if at all. the market for internet-based medical business services may not develop substantially further or develop more slowly than we expect, harming the growth of our business. while internet-based medical business services have become more accepted, the market for these services remains narrowly based, and it is uncertain whether these services will achieve and sustain the high levels of demand and market acceptance we anticipate. our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of enterprises, large and small, to increase their use of on-demand business services in general, and for their revenue, clinical, and patient cycles in particular. many enterprises have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate established enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to switch to an on-demand application service. furthermore, some enterprises may be reluctant or unwilling to use on-demand application services, because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with the security and reliability, among other things, of the technology delivery model associated with these services. if enterprises do not perceive the benefits of our services, then the market for these services may not expand as much or develop as quickly as we expect, either of which would significantly adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. changes in the health care industry could affect the demand for our services, cause our existing contracts to terminate, and negatively impact the process of negotiating future contracts. as the health care industry evolves, changes in our member, client, and vendor bases may reduce the demand for our services, result in the termination of existing contracts, and make it more difficult to negotiate new contracts on terms that are acceptable to us. for example, the current trend toward consolidation of health care providers within hospital systems may cause our existing practice client contracts to terminate as independent practices are merged into hospital systems. such larger health care organizations may also have their own practice management services and health it systems, reducing demand for our services. similarly, client and vendor consolidation results in fewer, larger entities with increased bargaining power and the ability to demand terms that are unfavorable to us. if these trends continue, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to maintain or expand our client base, negotiate contracts with acceptable terms, or maintain our current pricing structure, and our revenues may decrease. general reductions in expenditures by health care companies, or reductions in such expenditures within market segments that we serve, could have similar impacts with regard to our interactive services. such reductions may result from, among other things, reduced governmental funding for health care; a decrease in the number of, or the market exclusivity available to, new drugs coming to market; government regulation or private initiatives that affect the manner in which health care providers interact with patients, pharmaceutical companies, payers, or other health care industry participants (e.g., limitations on advertising to physicians or required disclosure of payments made to them); or adverse changes in business or economic conditions affecting health care payers or providers, the pharmaceutical industry, or other health care companies that subscribe for our interactive services (e.g., changes in the design of health plans). any of these changes could reduce the purchase of our services by such interactive services clients, reducing our revenue and possibly requiring us to materially revise our offerings. in addition, our interactive services clients’ expectations regarding pending or potential industry developments may also affect their budgeting processes and spending plans with respect to services of the types we provide. if we do not continue to innovate and provide services that are useful to clients and users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated client and user requirements, and sustain market acceptance. our competitors are constantly developing products and services that may become more efficient or appealing to our clients or users. as a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing services and introduce new high-quality services that clients and users will want, while offering these services at competitive prices. for example, our mobile clinical information services are not compatible with all mobile platforms. if a mobile platform that is incompatible with our services achieves widespread use 16 table of contents and acceptance in the medical community, or if internet resources or other non-mobile device resources become more attractive than what is offered for mobile platforms, we may be unable to retain or attract members to our products or services. if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our services on a timely or cost-effective basis, we may lose clients and users. our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our clients and users, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, or are not effectively brought to market. as technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer results that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar to or better than those generated by our services. this may force us to compete on additional service attributes and to expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. failure to manage our rapid growth effectively could increase our expenses, decrease our revenue, and prevent us from implementing our business strategy. we have been experiencing a period of rapid growth. to manage our anticipated future growth effectively, we must continue to maintain, and may need to enhance, our information technology infrastructure and financial and accounting systems and controls, as well as manage expanded operations in geographically distributed locations. we also must attract, train, and retain a significant number of qualified sales and marketing personnel, professional services personnel, software engineers, technical personnel, and management personnel. failure to manage our rapid growth effectively could lead us to over-invest or under-invest in technology and operations; result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, systems, or controls; give rise to operational mistakes, losses, or loss of productivity or business opportunities; reduce client or user satisfaction; limit our ability to respond to competitive pressures; and result in loss of employees and reduced productivity of remaining employees. our growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources and management attention from other projects, such as the development of new or enhanced services or the acquisition of suitable businesses or technologies. if our management is unable to effectively manage our growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our revenue could decline or may grow more slowly than expected, and we may be unable to implement our business strategy. we may be unable to adequately protect, and we may incur significant costs in enforcing, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. our success depends in part on our ability to enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. we rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret, and unfair competition laws, as well as license and access agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect these rights. our attempts to protect our intellectual property through copyright, patent, and trademark registration may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. while we have eleven issued u.s. patents (seven applicable to our epocrates services), two issued foreign patents (both applicable to our epocrates services), and a number of u.s. and foreign patent applications pending as of december 31, 2013, the scope of issued patents may be insufficient to prevent competitors from providing products and services similar to ours, our patents may be successfully challenged, and we may not be able to obtain additional meaningful patent protection in the future. our agreements with clients and users and with certain vendors and strategic partners limit their use of, and retain our rights in, our intellectual property and proprietary information and grant us ownership of intellectual property created in the performance of those agreements to the extent that it relates to the provision of our services. in addition, we require certain of our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality, non-competition, and assignment of inventions agreements and certain of our vendors and strategic partners to agree to contract provisions regarding confidentiality and non-competition. however, these agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. further, no assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in preventing the unauthorized access to, or use of, our proprietary information or the reverse engineering of our technology. in any event, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technology or authoring clinical information that is substantially equivalent or superior to our technology or the information we distribute. agreement terms that address non-competition are difficult to enforce in many jurisdictions and may not be enforceable in any particular case. in addition, our platforms incorporate “open source” software components that are licensed to us under various public domain licenses. while we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use, open source license terms are often ambiguous, and there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses. therefore, the potential impact of such terms on our business is somewhat unknown. for example, some open source licenses require that those using the associated code disclose modifications made to that code and that such modifications be licensed to third parties at no cost. we monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid uses in a manner that would require us to disclose or grant licenses under our proprietary source code. however, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful, and such use could inadvertently occur. 17 table of contents to the extent that our intellectual property and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected, third parties might gain access to our proprietary information, develop and market products or services similar to ours, or use trademarks similar to ours, each of which could materially harm our business. existing u.s. federal and state intellectual property laws offer only limited protection. moreover, the laws of other countries in which we now or may in the future conduct operations or contract for services may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. if we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. any litigation that may be necessary in the future could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. we may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. the software and internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks, and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. moreover, our business involves the systematic gathering and analysis of data about the requirements and behaviors of payers and other third parties, some or all of which may be claimed to be confidential or proprietary. we have received in the past, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties claiming that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others. our technologies may not be able to withstand such third-party claims of rights against their use, and we could lose the right to use third-party technologies that are the subject of such claims. any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, divert management attention from executing our business plan, and require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. in addition, many of our contracts contain warranties with respect to intellectual property rights, and some require us to indemnify our clients and third-party service providers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling on such a claim. although many of our third-party service providers are obligated to indemnify us if their products infringe the rights of others, such indemnification may not be effective or adequate to protect us or the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from such a claim could require us to pay substantial amounts of money or obtain a license to continue to use the technology or information that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology or information. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, from third parties asserting an infringement claim; that we would be able to develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all; that we would be able to obtain a license to use a suitable alternative technology or information to permit us to continue offering, and our clients to continue using, our affected services; or that we would not need to change our product and design plans, which could require us to redesign affected products or services or delay new offerings. accordingly, an adverse determination could prevent us from offering our services to others. current and future litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend and could result in additional liabilities. we may from time to time be subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by our clients in connection with commercial disputes and employment claims made by our current or former employees. claims may also be asserted by or on behalf of a variety of other parties, including government agencies, patients of our physician clients, or stockholders. for example, in may 2013 we purchased the property on which our corporate headquarters are located. this property is a former superfund site, and our ownership of it, or any of our other properties, could expose us to liability under applicable environmental laws, as well as to liability as a landlord or as owner of property that may be used by members of the public. any litigation involving us may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, overall financial condition, and operating results. insurance may not cover existing or future claims, be sufficient to fully compensate us for one or more of such claims, or continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. a claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, thereby reducing our operating results and leading analysts or potential investors to reduce their expectations of our performance resulting in a reduction in the trading price of our stock. risks related to our business — operations we depend upon third-party service providers for important processing functions. if these third-party providers do not fulfill their contractual obligations or choose to discontinue their services, our business and operations could be disrupted and our operating results would be harmed. we have entered into service agreements with international business machines corporation (which relationship is currently being wound down); vision business process solutions inc., a subsidiary of dell, inc. (formerly perot systems corporation); and access healthcare services usa, llc to provide data entry and other services from facilities located in india and the philip 18 table of contents pines to support our client service operations. among other things, these providers process critical claims data and clinical documents. if such services fail or are of poor quality, our business, reputation, and operating results could be harmed. failure of these service providers to perform satisfactorily could result in client dissatisfaction, disrupt our operations, and adversely affect operating results. with respect to these service providers, we have significantly less control over the systems and processes involved than if we maintained and operated them ourselves, which increases our risk. in some cases, functions necessary to our business are performed on proprietary systems and software to which we have no access. if we need to find an alternative source for performing these functions, we may have to expend significant money, resources, and time to develop the alternative, and if this development is not accomplished in a timely manner and without significant disruption to our business, we may be unable to fulfill our responsibilities to clients or the expectations of clients, with the attendant potential for liability claims and a loss of business reputation, loss of ability to attract or maintain clients, and reduction of our revenue or operating margin. various risks could affect our worldwide operations, exposing us to significant costs. we conduct operations in the united states, india, and the philippines, either directly or through our service providers. such worldwide operations expose us to potential operational disruptions and costs as a result of a wide variety of events, including local inflation or economic downturn, currency exchange fluctuations, political turmoil, terrorism, labor issues, natural disasters, unfavorable intellectual property protection, and pandemics. any such disruptions or costs could have a negative effect on our ability to provide our services or meet our contractual obligations, the cost of our services, practice client and user satisfaction, our ability to attract or maintain practice clients, and, ultimately, our profits. in addition, although the substantial majority of the members of our epocrates network are located in the united states, we currently have members in numerous other countries, and we could expand our international offerings in the future. having members who are foreign residents could subject us to additional risks of conducting business, including failure to comply with local consumer protection laws or regulations, the impact of a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions on purchasing decisions, exposure to competitors who are more familiar with local markets, and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. furthermore, we have limited experience in marketing, selling, and supporting our services abroad. for example, while symbian is the most widely used mobile operating system in europe, our clinical information and interactive services are not compatible with symbian-based devices. if we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and operating results will suffer. because competition for our target employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. to continue to execute on our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. competition for these personnel is intense, especially for senior sales executives and engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services. we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. we have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. for example, epocrates has experienced high turnover in recent years, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fill all open positions on a timely basis, or at all, on acceptable terms or that the limited exposure to epocrates’ business of those hired will not hinder our ability to manage and grow that business effectively, regardless of the extent of their past professional experience. in addition, our search for replacements for departed employees may cause uncertainty regarding the future of our business, impact employee hiring and retention, and adversely impact our revenue, operating results, and financial condition. many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. in addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they are to receive in connection with their employment. volatility in the price of our stock or failure to obtain stockholder approval for increases in the number of shares available for grant under our equity plans may, therefore, adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. furthermore, the requirements to expense equity awards may discourage us from granting the size or type of equity awards that job candidates require to join our company. if we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. if we acquire companies or technologies, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and adversely affect our operating results and the value of our common stock. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire, enter into joint ventures with, or make investments in complementary companies, services, and technologies in the future. acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in identifying and acquiring products, technologies, or businesses that will help our business; 19 table of contents • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services, and personnel; • the loss of key personnel; • failure to achieve anticipated operational efficiencies; • inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, or policies that give rise to additional costs; • diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations and other potential acquisitions and investments; • the risk of entering new markets in which we have little to no experience; • risks related to the assumption of known and unknown liabilities; • the risk of write-offs and the amortization of expenses related to purchased intangible assets; and • delays in client purchases due to uncertainty and the inability to maintain relationships with clients of the acquired businesses. as a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate, and management resources and attention may be diverted from other necessary or valuable activities. risks related to our business — financials our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly, and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price and the value of an investment in our common stock could decline substantially. our operating results are likely to fluctuate, and if we fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. moreover, our stock price may be based on expectations of our future performance that may be unrealistic or that may not be met. some of the important factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include: • the extent to which our services achieve or maintain market acceptance; • our ability to introduce new services and enhancements to our existing services on a timely basis; • new competitors and the introduction of enhanced products and services from new or existing competitors; • the length of our contracting and implementation cycles and our fulfillment periods for our services to pharmaceutical companies; • changes in client days in accounts receivable; • the severity, length, and timing of seasonal and pandemic illnesses; • seasonal declines in the use of physician services, generally in the late summer and during the holiday season, which lead to a decline in collections by our physician clients about 30 to 50 days later; • the financial condition of our current and future clients; • changes in client budgets and procurement policies; • changes in pharmaceutical company demand as a result of delays or changes in product approvals and changes in regulations or marketing strategies; • the amount and timing of our investment in research and development activities; • the amount and timing of our investment in sales and marketing activities; • technical difficulties or interruptions in our services; • our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel and maintain an adequate rate of expansion of our sales force; • changes in the regulatory environment related to health care; • regulatory compliance costs; • the timing, size, and integration success of potential future acquisitions; and • unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation and settlement costs. many of these factors are not within our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them might cause our operating results to vary widely. as such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. a significant portion of our operating expense is relatively fixed in nature, and planned expenditures are based in part on expectations regarding future revenue and profitability. accordingly, unexpected revenue shortfalls, lower-than-expected 20 table of contents revenue increases as a result of planned expenditures, and longer-than-expected impact on profitability and margins as a result of planned expenditures may decrease our gross margins and profitability and could cause significant changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. in addition, our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. if this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could fall substantially, either suddenly or over time. if the revenue of our practice clients decreases, or if our clients cancel or elect not to renew their contracts, our revenue will decrease. under most of our practice client contracts, we base our charges on a percentage of the revenue that the client realizes while using our services. many factors may lead to decreases in client revenue, including: • interruption of client access to our system for any reason; • our failure to provide services in a timely or high-quality manner; • failure of our clients to adopt or maintain effective business practices; • actions by third-party payers of medical claims to reduce reimbursement; • government regulations and government or other payer actions or inaction reducing or delaying reimbursement; and • reduction of client revenue resulting from increased competition or other changes in the marketplace for physician services. the current economic situation may give rise to several of these factors. for example, patients who have lost health insurance coverage due to unemployment or who face increased deductibles imposed by financially struggling employers or insurers could reduce the number of visits those patients make to our practice clients. patients without health insurance or with reduced coverage may also default on their payment obligations at a higher rate than patients with coverage. added financial stress on our clients could lead to their acquisition or bankruptcy, which could cause the termination of some of our service relationships. further, despite the cost benefits that we believe our services provide, prospective clients may wish to delay contract decisions due to implementation costs or be reluctant to make any material changes in their established business methods in the current economic climate. with a reduction in tax revenue, state and federal government health care programs, including reimbursement programs such as medicaid or initiatives under the affordable care act, may be reduced or eliminated, which could negatively impact the payments that our practice clients receive. also, although we currently estimate our expected customer life for practice clients to be twelve years, this is only an estimate, and there can be no assurance that our clients will elect to renew their contracts for this period of time. our practice clients typically purchase one-year contracts that, in most cases, may be terminated on 90 days’ notice without cause. the majority of our clinical information subscriptions have terms of one year, and our contracts with our market research, payer, and pharmaceutical clients for our interactive services typically range from one to three years. we cannot assure you that members of our epocrates network and other epocrates clients will continue to participate in our existing programs beyond the terms of their existing contracts or that they will enter into any additional contracts for new programs that we offer. if our practice clients’ revenue decreases for any of the above or other reasons, or if our clients cancel or elect not to renew their contracts, our revenue will decrease. if we are required to collect sales and use taxes on the services we sell in additional jurisdictions, we may be subject to liability for past sales and incur additional related costs and expenses, and our future sales may decrease. we may lose sales or incur significant expenses should states be successful in imposing state sales and use taxes on our services. a successful assertion by one or more states that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with software vendors subject to sales and use taxes, and otherwise harm our business. each state has different rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. we review these rules and regulations periodically and, when we believe that our services are subject to sales and use taxes in a particular state, we voluntarily approach state tax authorities in order to determine how to comply with their rules and regulations. we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to sales and use taxes or related penalties for past sales in states where we believe no compliance is necessary. vendors of services, like us, are typically held responsible by taxing authorities for the collection and payment of any applicable sales and similar taxes. if one or more taxing authorities determines that taxes should have, but have not, been paid with respect to our services, we may be liable for past taxes in addition to taxes going forward. liability for past taxes may also include very substantial interest and penalty charges. our client contracts provide that our clients must pay all applicable sales and similar taxes. nevertheless, clients may be reluctant to pay back taxes and may refuse responsibility for interest or penalties associated with those taxes. if we are required to collect and pay back taxes and the associated interest and penalties, and if our 21 table of contents clients fail or refuse to reimburse us for all or a portion of these amounts, we will have incurred unplanned expenses that may be substantial. moreover, imposition of such taxes on our services going forward will effectively increase the cost of such services to our clients and may adversely affect our ability to retain existing clients or to gain new clients in the states in which such taxes are imposed. we may also become subject to tax audits or similar procedures in states where we already pay sales and use taxes. the incurrence of additional accounting and legal costs and related expenses in connection with, and the assessment of, taxes, interest, and penalties as a result of audits, litigation, or otherwise could be materially adverse to our current and future results of operations and financial condition. as a result of our variable sales and implementation cycles for our athenahealth services, and the uncertainty as to the timing of the fulfillment of our epocrates services, we may be unable to recognize revenue to offset expenditures, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations or otherwise harm our future operating results. the sales cycle for our athenahealth services can be variable, typically ranging from three to five months from initial contact to contract execution, although this period can be substantially longer. during the sales cycle, we expend time and resources, and we do not recognize any revenue to offset such expenditures. our implementation cycle is also variable, typically ranging from three to five months from contract execution to completion of implementation, although some of our new-client set-up projects—especially those for larger practice clients—are complex and require a lengthy delay and significant implementation work. each client’s situation is different, and unanticipated difficulties and delays may arise as a result of failure by us or by the client to meet our respective implementation responsibilities. during the implementation cycle, we expend substantial time, effort, and financial resources implementing our services, but accounting principles do not allow us to recognize the resulting revenue until the service has been implemented, at which time we begin recognition of implementation revenue over an expected attribution period of the longer of the estimated expected customer life, currently twelve years, or the contract term. even if implementation has begun, there can be no assurance that we will recognize revenue on a timely basis or at all from our efforts. implementation for a given practice client may be canceled, as our contracts typically provide that they can be terminated for any reason or no reason on 90 days’ notice. despite the fact that we typically require a deposit in advance of implementation, some clients have canceled before our services have been started. in addition, implementation may be delayed, or the target dates for completion may be extended into the future, for a variety of reasons, including the needs and requirements of the client, delays with payer processing, and the volume and complexity of the implementations awaiting our work. if implementation periods are extended, our provision of the revenue cycle, clinical cycle, or patient cycle services upon which we realize most of our revenues will be delayed, and our financial condition may be adversely affected. in addition, cancellation of any implementation after it has begun may involve loss to us of time, effort, and expenses invested in the canceled implementation process and lost opportunity for implementing paying clients in that same period of time. in regard to our epocrates services, the time between the date of the signing of the contract with a pharmaceutical client for a program, the actual fulfillment of the services under such contract and the revenue recognition associated with such revenues may be lengthy, especially for larger contracts with multiple deliverables, and may be subject to delays over which we have little or no control, including those that result from that client’s need for internal approvals. these factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, particularly in the near term and during any period in which our sales volume is relatively low. as a result, in future quarters our operating results could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which event our stock price would likely decrease. because we recognize revenue from our drug and clinical reference tool subscriptions and certain of our interactive services over the term or at the end of the service period, a significant downturn in our business may not be reflected immediately in our operating results, which may make it more difficult to evaluate our prospects. we recognize revenue from our epocrates subscription agreements monthly over the terms of these agreements, which are typically one year. in most cases, we recognize revenue from our interactive services over the terms of these agreements or upon delivery of each service element. as a result, a significant portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is generated from subscription and service agreements entered into during prior periods. consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions or service agreements in any one quarter may not materially affect our financial performance in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our costs, many of which are fixed, in response to reduced revenue. accordingly, the effect of significant declines in sales and market acceptance of our services may not be reflected in our short-term results of operations, which would make our reported results less indicative of our future prospects. 22 table of contents if we fail to meet our current credit agreement’s financial covenants, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. we currently have a credit agreement which contains financial covenants, including maintaining a consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, a consolidated leverage ratio, and a consolidated senior leverage ratio. as of december 31, 2013, we borrowed $223.8 million under the agreement and were in compliance with its financial covenants. there is no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance with all of the covenants under the agreement, and, if at any point we fail to comply with the financial covenants, the lenders can demand immediate repayment of our outstanding balance and deny future borrowings under the agreement. this could have a negative impact on our liquidity, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for other purposes and adversely affecting our business. risks related to our service offerings our proprietary software or our services may not operate properly, which could damage our reputation, give rise to claims against us, or divert application of our resources from other purposes, any of which could harm our business and operating results. proprietary software development is time-consuming, expensive, and complex. unforeseen difficulties can arise. we may encounter technical obstacles, and it is possible that we discover additional problems that prevent our applications from operating properly. if our systems do not function reliably or fail to achieve user or client expectations in terms of performance, clients could assert liability claims against us or attempt to cancel their contracts with us, and members could choose to terminate their use of our services. this could damage our reputation and impair our ability to attract or maintain clients and members. information services as complex as those we offer have in the past contained, and may in the future develop or contain, undetected defects or errors. we cannot assure you that material performance problems or defects in our services will not arise in the future. errors may result from sources beyond our control, including the receipt, entry, or interpretation of patient information; interface of our services with legacy systems that we did not develop; or errors in data provided by third parties. it is challenging for us to test our software for all potential problems because it is difficult to simulate the wide variety of computing environments or treatment methodologies that our practice clients or members may deploy or rely upon. therefore, despite testing, defects or errors may arise in our existing or new software or service processes following introduction to the market. for example, changes in payer requirements and practices are frequent and sometimes difficult to determine except through trial and error, so we are continuously discovering defects and errors in our software and service processes compared against these requirements and practices. because practice clients rely on our services to collect, manage, and report clinical, business, and administrative data-including information to assist care providers in tracking and treating ill patients-and members rely on our services to provide timely and accurate information regarding medical conditions and medicines, they may have a greater sensitivity to service errors and security vulnerabilities than clients of software products in general. any operational delay in or failure of our technology or service processes may result in the disruption of patient care and could cause harm to patients and thereby give rise to a product liability claim or errors or omissions claim. such claims could subject us to significant legal defense costs and adverse publicity, regardless of the merits or eventual outcome of those claims. while our subscription and services agreements typically contain limitations of liability and disclaimers that purport to limit our liability for damages related to defects in our software or content, such limitations and disclaimers may not be enforced by a court or other tribunal or otherwise effectively protect us from related claims. we maintain liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions. however, it is possible that claims could exceed the amount of our applicable insurance coverage, if any, or that this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. in light of this, defects and errors and any failure by us to identify and address them could result in loss of revenue or market share; liability to clients, members, their patients, or others; failure to achieve market acceptance or expansion; diversion of development and management resources; delays in the introduction of new services; injury to our reputation; and increased service and maintenance costs. defects or errors in our software and service processes might discourage existing or potential clients or members from purchasing services from us. correction of defects or errors could prove to be impossible or impracticable. the costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors or in responding to resulting claims or liability may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. 23 table of contents if our security measures are breached or fail, and unauthorized access is obtained to a client’s or member’s data, our services may be perceived as not being secure, clients and members may curtail or stop using our services, and we may incur significant liabilities. our services involve the web-based storage and transmission of clients’ and members’ proprietary information and protected health information of patients. because of the sensitivity of this information, security features of our software are very important. from time to time we may detect vulnerabilities in our systems, which, even if they do not result in a security breach, may reduce customer confidence and require substantial resources to address. if our security measures are breached or fail as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, insufficiency, defective design, or otherwise, someone may be able to obtain unauthorized access to client, member, or patient data. as a result, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer, and we could face damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, and significant costs for remediation and efforts to prevent future occurrences. we rely upon users of our systems for key activities to promote security of those systems and the data within them, such as administration of client-side access credentialing and control of client-side display of data. on occasion, our users have failed to perform these activities. failure of users to perform these activities may result in claims against us that this reliance was misplaced, which could expose us to significant expense and harm to our reputation. because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales, clients, and members. in addition, our practice clients may authorize or enable third parties to access their data or the data of their patients on our systems. because we do not control such access, we cannot ensure the complete propriety of that access or integrity or security of such data in our systems. failure by our clients to obtain proper permissions and waivers may result in claims against us or may limit or prevent our use of data, which could harm our business. we require our clients to provide necessary notices and to obtain necessary permissions and waivers for use and disclosure of the information that we receive, and we require contractual assurances from them that they have done so and will do so. if they do not obtain necessary permissions and waivers, then our use and disclosure of information that we receive from them or on their behalf may be limited or prohibited by state or federal privacy laws or other laws. this could impair our functions, processes, and databases that reflect, contain, or are based upon such data and may prevent use of such data. in addition, this could interfere with or prevent creation or use of rules, and analyses or limit other data-driven activities that benefit us. moreover, we may be subject to claims or liability for use or disclosure of information by reason of lack of valid notice, permission, or waiver. these claims or liabilities could subject us to unexpected costs and adversely affect our operating results. various events could interrupt users’ access to our systems, exposing us to significant costs. the ability to access our systems is critical to our practice clients’ administration of care, cash flow, and business viability. our operations and facilities are vulnerable to interruption or damage from a number of sources, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation: (i) power loss and telecommunications failures; (ii) earthquake, fire, flood, hurricane, and other natural disasters; (iii) terrorism and acts of war; (iv) software and hardware errors, failures, or crashes in our systems or those of others; and (v) computer viruses, hacking, and similar disruptive problems in our systems or those of others. we attempt to mitigate these risks through various means, including redundant infrastructure, disaster recovery plans, business continuity plans, separate test systems, and change control and system security measures, but our precautions will not protect against all potential problems. if users’ access is interrupted because of problems in the operation of our facilities, we could be exposed to significant claims by practice clients or their patients, particularly if the access interruption is associated with problems in the timely delivery of funds due to those clients or medical information relevant to patient care. our plans for disaster recovery and business continuity rely in part upon third-party providers of related services, and if those vendors fail us at a time that our systems are not operating correctly, we could incur a loss of revenue and liability for failure to fulfill our obligations. although we carry business interruption insurance, it only covers some, but not all, of these potential events, and even for those events that are covered, it may not be sufficient to compensate us fully for losses or damages that may occur as a result of such events, including, for example, loss of market share and diminution of our brand, reputation, and member and client loyalty. in addition, retention and availability of patient care and physician reimbursement data are subject to federal and state laws governing record retention, accuracy, and access. some laws impose obligations on our practice clients and on us to produce information to third parties and to amend or expunge data at their direction. our failure to meet these obligations may result in liability that could increase our costs and reduce our operating results. 24 table of contents we rely on internet infrastructure, bandwidth providers, data center providers, other third parties, and our own systems for providing services to our users, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by these third parties or our own systems could expose us to litigation and negatively impact our relationships with users or clients, adversely affecting our brand and our business. in addition to the services we provide from our offices, we currently serve our practice clients from three third-party data-hosting facilities located in the greater boston, massachusetts, and dallas-fort worth, texas, areas. these facilities are operated by colospace inc. and two subsidiaries of digital realty trust, inc. in addition, in december 2009 we signed a contract with a major provider of disaster recovery services, sungard availability services, lp, to store our disaster recovery plans and provide disaster recovery testing services. in the case of a significant event at any of these data centers, we could move operations from that data center to our other data centers within a reasonable timeframe. for our epocrates services, in addition to our operations at our facility in san mateo, california, we use a co-location service administered by at&t, inc. in redwood city, california. however, these facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events. they are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, and similar misconduct. despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at two or more of the facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. for example, the proximity of our san mateo and redwood city, california, operations, which are the sole facilities used to provide our epocrates services, could result in both facilities being impacted by a regional event, such as an earthquake. even with our disaster recovery arrangements, our services could be interrupted. our ability to deliver our internet- and telecommunications-based services is dependent on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the internet and other telecommunications services by third parties. this includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity, and security for providing reliable internet access and services and reliable mobile device, telephone, facsimile, and pager systems. our services are designed to operate without interruption in accordance with our service level commitments and meet user expectations. however, we have experienced and expect that we will experience interruptions and delays in services and availability from time to time. we rely on internal systems as well as third-party vendors, including data center, bandwidth, and telecommunications equipment or service providers, to provide our services. we do not maintain redundant systems or facilities for some of these services. in the event of a catastrophic event with respect to one or more of these systems or facilities, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our relationship with users or clients. to operate without interruption, both we and our service providers must guard against: • damage from fire, power loss, and other natural disasters; • communications failures; • software and hardware errors, failures, and crashes; • security breaches, computer viruses, and similar disruptive problems; and • other potential interruptions. any disruption in the network access, telecommunications, or co-location services provided by these third-party providers or any failure of or by these third-party providers or our own systems to handle current or higher volume of use could significantly harm our business. we exercise limited control over these third-party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with services they provide. any errors, failures, interruptions, or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services or our own systems could negatively impact our relationships with users and clients, adversely affect our brands and business, and expose us to third-party liabilities. although we maintain insurance for our business, the coverage under our policies may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost. the reliability and performance of the internet may be harmed by increased usage or by denial-of-service attacks. the internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damages to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. these outages and delays could reduce the level of internet usage as well as the availability of the internet to us for delivery of our internet-based services. 25 table of contents we rely on third-party computer hardware and software that may be difficult to replace or that could cause errors or failures of our services, which could damage our reputation, harm our ability to attract and maintain clients and members, and decrease our revenue. we rely on computer hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties in order to offer our services, including database software from oracle corporation and storage devices from international business machines corporation and emc corporation. these licenses are generally commercially available on varying terms; however, it is possible that this hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. any loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could result in delays in the provisioning of our services until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained, and integrated, which could harm our business. any errors or defects in third-party hardware or software could result in errors or a failure of our services, which could damage our reputation, harm our ability to attract and maintain clients and members, and decrease our revenue. we are subject to the effect of payer and provider conduct that we cannot control and that could damage our reputation with clients and result in liability claims that increase our expenses. we offer certain electronic claims submission services for which we rely on content from clients, payers, and others. while we have implemented certain features and safeguards designed to maximize the accuracy and completeness of claims content, these features and safeguards may not be sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims data from being submitted to payers. should inaccurate claims data be submitted to payers, we may experience poor operational results and may be subject to liability claims, which could damage our reputation with clients and result in liability claims that increase our expenses. if our services fail to provide accurate and timely information, or if our content or any other element of any of our services is associated with faulty clinical decisions or treatment, we could have liability to clients, members, clinicians, or patients, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our software, content, and services are used to assist clinical decision-making and provide information about patient medical histories, treatment plans, medical conditions, and the use of particular medications. if our software, content, or services fail to provide accurate and timely information or are associated with faulty clinical decisions or treatment, then clients, members, clinicians, or their patients could assert claims against us that could result in substantial costs to us, harm our reputation in the industry, and cause demand for our services to decline. our athenaclinicals service is utilized in clinical decision-making, provides access to patient medical histories, and assists in creating patient treatment plans, including the issuance of prescription drugs. therefore, if these data are incorrect or incomplete or if we make mistakes in the capture or input of these data, adverse consequences, including death, may occur and give rise to product liability and other claims against us by practice clients, clinicians, patients, or others. although the data stored and displayed in athenaclinicals is generally provided by our practice clients or third parties, and we often have little control over their accuracy, a court or government agency may take the position that our storage and display of health information exposes us to personal injury liability or other liability for wrongful delivery or handling of health care services or erroneous health information. our epocrates clinical reference tools and interactive services provide health care professionals with access to clinical information, including information regarding particular medical conditions and the use of particular medications. if our content, or content we obtain from third parties, contains inaccuracies, or we introduce inaccuracies in the process of implementing third-party content, it is possible that patients, physicians, consumers, the providers of the third-party content, or others may sue us if they are harmed as a result of such inaccuracies. we have editorial procedures in place to provide quality control of the information that we publish or provide. however, we cannot assure you that our editorial and other quality control procedures will be sufficient to ensure that there are no errors or omissions in particular content, and we have had content errors in the past. the assertion of such claims and ensuing litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial cost to us, divert management’s attention from operations, damage our reputation, and decrease market acceptance of our services. we attempt to limit by contract our liability for damages; have our members assume responsibility for medical oversight and dosing decisions; and require that our practice clients assume responsibility for medical care and approve key system rules, protocols, and data. despite these precautions, the allocations of responsibility and limitations of liability set forth in our contracts may not be enforceable, be binding upon patients, or otherwise protect us from liability for damages. furthermore, while we maintain general liability and errors and omissions insurance coverage, this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us. in addition, the insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claim. one or more large claims could exceed our available insurance coverage. if any of these risks occur, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 26 table of contents risks related to regulation government regulation of health care creates risks and challenges with respect to our compliance efforts and our business strategies. the health care industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory, and other influences. existing and new laws and regulations affecting the health care industry could create unexpected liabilities for us, cause us to incur additional costs, and restrict our operations. many health care laws are complex, and their application to specific services and relationships may not be clear. in particular, many existing health care laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate the health care information and interactive services that we provide, and these laws and regulations may be applied to our services in ways that we do not anticipate, particularly as we develop and release new and more sophisticated products and services. our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations, or our other failure to comply with them, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity, and negatively affect our business. some of the risks we face from health care regulation are described below: false or fraudulent claim laws.    there are numerous federal and state laws that forbid submission of false information, or the failure to disclose information, in connection with submission and payment of physician claims for reimbursement. in some cases, these laws also forbid abuse in connection with such submission and payment. any failure of our services to comply with these laws and regulations could result in substantial liability (including, but not limited to, criminal liability), adversely affect demand for our services, and force us to expend significant capital, research and development, and other resources to address the failure. errors by us or our systems with respect to entry, formatting, preparation, or transmission of claim information may be determined or alleged to be in violation of these laws and regulations. any determination by a court or regulatory agency that our services violate these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, invalidate all or portions of some of our practice client contracts, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our services fees, cause us to be disqualified from serving practice clients doing business with government payers, and have an adverse effect on our business. in most cases where we are permitted to do so, we calculate charges for our services based on a percentage of the collections that our practice clients receive as a result of our services. to the extent that violations or liability for violations of these laws and regulations require intent, it may be alleged that this percentage calculation provides us or our employees with incentive to commit or overlook fraud or abuse in connection with submission and payment of reimbursement claims. the u.s. centers for medicare and medicaid services has stated that it is concerned that percentage-based billing services may encourage billing companies to engage in or overlook fraudulent or abusive practices. in addition, we may contract with third parties that offer software relating to the selection or verification of codes used to identify and classify the services for which reimbursement is sought. submission of codes that do not accurately reflect the services provided or the location or method of their provision may constitute a violation of false or fraudulent claims laws. our ability to comply with these laws depends on the coding decisions made by our practice clients and the accuracy of our vendors’ software and services in suggesting possible codes to those clients and verifying that proper codes have been selected. hipaa and other health privacy regulations.    there are numerous federal and state laws related to patient privacy. in particular, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, includes privacy standards that protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosures of individually identifiable health information and implementing data security standards that require covered entities to implement administrative, physical, and technological safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and security of individually identifiable health information in electronic form. hipaa also specifies formats that must be used in certain electronic transactions, such as claims, payment advice, and eligibility inquiries. because we translate electronic transactions to and from hipaa-prescribed electronic formats and other forms, we are considered a clearinghouse and, as such, a covered entity subject to hipaa. in addition, our practice clients are also covered entities and are mandated by hipaa to enter into written agreements with us—known as business associate agreements—that require us to safeguard individually identifiable health information. business associate agreements typically include: • a description of our permitted uses of individually identifiable health information; • a covenant not to disclose that information except as permitted under the agreement and to make our subcontractors, if any, subject to the same restrictions; • assurances that appropriate administrative, physical, and technical safeguards are in place to prevent misuse of that information; • an obligation to report to our client any use or disclosure of that information other than as provided for in the agreement; 27 table of contents • a prohibition against our use or disclosure of that information if a similar use or disclosure by our client would violate the hipaa standards; • the ability of our clients to terminate the underlying support agreement if we breach a material term of the business associate agreement and are unable to cure the breach; • the requirement to return or destroy all individually identifiable health information at the end of our support agreement; and • access by the department of health and human services to our internal practices, books, and records to validate that we are safeguarding individually identifiable health information. we may not be able to adequately address the business risks created by hipaa implementation. furthermore, we are unable to predict what changes to hipaa or other laws or regulations might be made in the future or how those changes could affect our business or the costs of compliance. for example, the provisions of the hitech act and the regulations issued under it (including the omnibus rule promulgated in january 2013) have provided clarification of certain aspects of both the privacy and security rules, expansion of the disclosure requirements for a breach of the security rule, and strengthening of the civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with hipaa. in addition, onchit is coordinating the ongoing development of standards to enable interoperable health information technology infrastructure nationwide based on the widespread adoption of electronic health records in the health care sector. we are unable to predict what, if any, impact the changes in such standards will have on our compliance costs or our services. in addition, some payers and clearinghouses with which we conduct business interpret hipaa transaction requirements differently than we do. where clearinghouses or payers require conformity with their interpretations as a condition of effecting transactions, and their interpretations are no less stringent than ours, we seek to comply with their interpretations. the hipaa transaction standards include proper use of procedure and diagnosis codes. since these codes are selected or approved by our practice clients, and since we do not verify their propriety, some of our capability to comply with the transaction standards is dependent on the proper conduct of those clients. among our services, we provide telephone reminder services to patients, internet- and telephone-based access to medical test results, pager and email notification to practices of patient calls, and patient call answering services. we believe that reasonable efforts to prevent disclosure of individually identifiable health information have been and are being taken in connection with these services, including the use of multiple-password security. however, any failure of our practice clients to provide accurate contact information for their patients or physicians or any breach of our telecommunications systems could result in a disclosure of individually identifiable health information. in addition to the hipaa privacy and security rules and the hitech act requirements, most states have enacted patient confidentiality laws that protect against the disclosure of confidential medical and other personally identifiable information, and many states have adopted or are considering further legislation in this area, including privacy safeguards, security standards, and data security breach notification requirements. such state laws, if more stringent than hipaa and hitech act requirements, are not preempted by the federal requirements, and we are required to comply with them. failure by us to comply with any of the federal and state standards regarding patient privacy may subject us to penalties, including civil monetary penalties and, in some circumstances, criminal penalties. in addition, such failure may injure our reputation and adversely affect our ability to retain clients and attract new clients. in addition to false claims and hipaa requirements, we are subject to a variety of other regulatory schemes, including: • anti-kickback and anti-bribery laws.    there are federal and state laws that govern patient referrals, physician financial relationships, and inducements to health care providers and patients. for example, the federal health care programs’ anti-kickback law prohibits any person or entity from offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving anything of value, directly or indirectly, for the referral of patients covered by medicare, medicaid, and other federal health care programs or the leasing, purchasing, ordering, or arranging for or recommending the lease, purchase, or order of any item, good, facility, or service covered by these programs. many states also have similar anti-kickback laws that are not necessarily limited to items or services for which payment is made by a federal health care program. moreover, both federal and state laws forbid bribery and similar behavior. any determination by a state or federal regulatory agency that any of our activities or those of our clients, vendors, or channel partners violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund a portion of our service fees, disqualify us from providing services to clients doing business with government programs, and have an adverse effect on our business. for example, one aspect of our athenacoordinator service is the preparation and submission of electronic orders from providers to other participants in the health care system (e.g., hospitals, labs, and specialists). as the recipients of those orders will in certain instances pay us for the submission of 28 table of contents accurate, complete, and readable orders instead of the handwritten and often incomplete orders traditionally submitted, our service could potentially be seen as providing referrals to the order recipients in exchange for payment. although the office of inspector general issued an advisory opinion in november 2011 stating that our receipt of payments in such instances would not violate federal anti-kickback laws, we cannot predict whether changes in the law or our services might lead to a challenge of the legality of those services by government regulators. even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require a costly response from us. • legislation relating to payments to physicians.    legislation enacted or pending in several states and enacted at the federal level as part of the patient protection and affordable care act and the healthcare and education reconciliation act of 2010 mandates public disclosure of, or otherwise regulates or limits the providing of, certain gifts and payments by pharmaceutical companies to physicians. these laws may be interpreted to cover honorarium payments made to physicians for participation in market research activities sponsored by pharmaceutical companies. because we currently provide market research services involving participants from our member network, the increased adoption and enforcement of these laws and the application of any public disclosure requirements or other limitations may have a negative impact on the ability of pharmaceutical companies to sponsor these activities or the willingness of physicians to participate in the market research. to date, we have not experienced a significant reduction in our market research services business as a result of these laws in the few jurisdictions in which they have been enacted and become effective. however, we cannot predict how pharmaceutical companies or physicians will respond when such legislation becomes more widespread or becomes effective at the federal level. a significant decline in the sponsorship of our market research services by pharmaceutical companies or the agencies that represent such companies, or a significant decline in physicians’ willingness to participate in such studies could negatively impact our operating results. • anti-referral laws.    there are federal and state laws that forbid payment for patient referrals, patient brokering, remuneration of patients, or billing based on referrals between individuals or entities that have various financial, ownership, or other business relationships with health care providers. in many cases, billing for care arising from such actions is illegal. these vary widely from state to state, and one of the federal laws—called the stark law—is very complex in its application. any determination by a state or federal regulatory agency that any of our practice clients violate or have violated any of these laws may result in allegations that claims that we have processed or forwarded are improper. this could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our services fees, and have an adverse effect on our business. even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require a costly response from us. • corporate practice of medicine laws and fee-splitting laws.    many states have laws forbidding physicians from practicing medicine in partnership with non-physicians, such as business corporations. in some states, including new york, these take the form of laws or regulations forbidding splitting of physician fees with non-physicians or others. in some cases, these laws have been interpreted to prevent business service providers from charging their physician clients on the basis of a percentage of collections or charges. we have varied our charge structure in some states to comply with these laws, which may make our services less desirable to potential clients. any determination by a state court or regulatory agency that our service contracts with our practice clients violate these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, invalidate all or portions of some of those contracts, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our services fees, and have an adverse effect on our business. even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require a costly response from us. • anti-assignment laws.    there are federal and state laws that prohibit or limit assignment of claims for reimbursement from government-funded programs. in some cases, these laws have been interpreted in regulations or policy statements to limit the manner in which business service companies may handle checks or other payments for such claims and to limit or prevent such companies from charging their physician clients on the basis of a percentage of collections or charges. any determination by a state court or regulatory agency that our service contracts with our practice clients violate these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, invalidate all or portions of some of those contracts, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our service fees, and have an adverse effect on our business. even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require a costly response from us. • prescribing laws.    the use of our software by physicians to perform a variety of functions relating to prescriptions, including electronic prescribing, electronic routing of prescriptions to pharmacies, and dispensing of medication, is governed by state and federal law, including fraud and abuse laws, drug control regulations, and state department of health regulations. states have differing prescription format requirements, and, due in part to recent industry initiatives, federal law and the laws of all 50 states now provide a regulatory framework for the electronic transmission 29 table of contents of prescription orders. regulatory authorities such as the u.s. department of health and human services’ centers for medicare and medicaid services may impose functionality standards with regard to electronic prescribing and ehr technologies. any determination that we or our practice clients have violated prescribing laws may expose us to liability, loss of reputation, and loss of business. these laws and requirements may also increase the cost and time necessary to market new services and could affect us in other respects not presently foreseeable. • electronic health records laws.    a number of federal and state laws govern the use and content of electronic health record systems, including fraud and abuse laws that may affect how such technology is provided. as a company that provides ehr functionality, our systems and services must be designed in a manner that facilitates our practice clients’ compliance with these laws. because this is a topic of increasing state and federal regulation, we expect additional and continuing modification of the current legal and regulatory environment. we cannot predict the content or effect of possible future regulation on our business activities. the software component of our athenaclinicals service was certified as a 2014 edition compliant complete ehr by cchit, an onc-atcb, in accordance with the applicable certification criteria adopted by the secretary of the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs). however, such certification does not represent an endorsement of our athenaclinicals service by hhs or guarantee the receipt of incentive payments. while we believe that our system is well designed in terms of function and interoperability, we cannot be certain that it will meet future requirements. • claims transmission laws.    our services include the manual and electronic transmission of medical practice claims for reimbursement from payers. federal and various state laws provide for civil and criminal penalties for any person who submits, or causes to be submitted, a claim to any payer (including, without limitation, medicare, medicaid, and any private health plans and managed care plans) that is false or that overbills or bills for items that have not been provided to the patient. although we do not determine what is billed to a payer, to the extent that such laws apply to a service that merely transmits claims on behalf of others, we could be subject to the same civil and criminal penalties as our practice clients. • prompt pay laws.    laws in many states govern prompt payment obligations for health care services. these laws generally define claims payment processes and set specific time frames for submission, payment, and appeal steps. they frequently also define and require clean claims. failure to meet these requirements and time frames may result in rejection or delay of claims. failure of our services to comply may adversely affect our business results and give rise to liability claims by practice clients. • medical professional regulation.    the practice of most health care professions requires licensing under applicable state law. in addition, the laws in some states prohibit business entities from practicing medicine. we do not believe that we engage in the practice of medicine and have attempted to structure our services, strategic relationships, and other operations to avoid violating these state licensing and professional practice laws. we employ and contract with physicians who provide only medical information to our users, some of whom may be consumers, and we do not intend to provide medical care or advice. any determination that we are a health care provider and acted improperly as a health care provider may result in liability to us. • regulation of drug and medical device advertising and promotion.    we provide services involving promotion of prescription and over-the-counter drugs and medical devices. any increase in regulation of these areas by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda; the federal trade commission, or ftc; or other governmental bodies at the federal, state, or local level, could make it more difficult for us to contract for certain of our interactive services. physician groups and others have criticized the fda’s current policies and have called for restrictions on advertising of prescription drugs and for increased fda enforcement. in response, the fda has conducted hearings and sought public comment regarding its regulation of information concerning drugs on the internet and the relationships between pharmaceutical companies and those disseminating information on drugs. we cannot predict what actions the fda or industry participants may take in response to these criticisms. it is also possible that new laws would be enacted that impose restrictions on such marketing and advertising. our interactive services revenues could be materially reduced by additional restrictions on the marketing or advertising of prescription drugs and medical devices, whether imposed by law or regulation or by policies adopted by industry members. if the fda, the ftc, or another governmental body finds that any information available on our website or distributed by us violates fda, ftc, or other laws or regulations, they may take regulatory or judicial action against us or the advertiser or sponsor of that information. state attorneys general may also take similar action based on their state’s consumer protection statutes or other new or existing laws. • medical device laws.    the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) has promulgated a draft policy for the regulation of computer software products as medical devices under the 1976 medical device amendments to the federal food, drug and cosmetic act. in addition, in february 2011 the fda issued a final rule regarding regulation of medical device data systems (mddss), which are systems that are intended to transfer, store, convert, or display medical device data. while ehrs are expressly exempted from the final rule, it is possible that future changes in our services could involve the transfer, storage, conversion, or display of medical device data. in addition, a report, which 30 table of contents we anticipate by mid-2014 from the fda, onchit, and the federal communications commission, is expected to propose a regulatory framework for health information technology for the purpose of promoting innovation, protecting patient safety, and avoiding regulatory duplication. to the extent that our software is considered a medical device under the policy or an mdds under the final rule, or is the subject of additional regulation promulgated as a result of the report, we, as a provider of application functionality, could be required, depending on the functionality, to: ◦ register and list our products with the fda; ◦ notify the fda and demonstrate substantial equivalence to other products on the market before marketing our functionality; or ◦ obtain fda approval by demonstrating safety and effectiveness before marketing our functionality. the fda can impose extensive requirements governing pre- and post-market conditions, such as service investigation and others relating to approval, labeling, and manufacturing. in addition, the fda can impose extensive requirements governing development controls and quality assurance processes. potential health care reform and new regulatory requirements placed on our software, services, and content could impose increased costs on us, delay or prevent our introduction of new service types, and impair the function or value of our existing service types. our services may be significantly impacted by health care reform initiatives and will be subject to increasing regulatory requirements, either of which could affect our business in a multitude of ways. if substantive health care reform or applicable regulatory requirements are adopted, we may have to change or adapt our services and software to comply. reform or changing regulatory requirements may also render our services obsolete or may block us from accomplishing our work or from developing new services. this may in turn impose additional costs upon us to adapt to the new operating environment or to further develop services or software. for example, the conversion to the icd-10 standard in october 2014 for coding medical diagnoses will likely cause significant disruption to our industry and consume a large amount of resources on our part. such reforms may also make introduction of new service types more costly or more time-consuming than we currently anticipate. such changes may even prevent introduction by us of new services or make the continuation of our existing services unprofitable or impossible. potential additional regulation of the disclosure of health information outside the united states may adversely affect our operations and may increase our costs. federal or state governmental authorities may impose additional data security standards or additional privacy or other restrictions on the collection, use, transmission, and other disclosures of health information. legislation has been proposed at various times at both the federal and the state level that would limit, forbid, or regulate the use or transmission of medical information outside of the united states. such legislation, if adopted, may render our use of our off-shore partners, such as our data-entry and customer service providers, for work related to such data impracticable or substantially more expensive. alternative processing of such information within the united states may involve substantial delay in implementation and increased cost. due to the particular nature of certain services we provide or the manner in which we provide them, we may be subject to government regulation unrelated to health care. while our services are primarily subject to government regulations pertaining to health care, certain aspects of those services may require us to comply with regulatory schemes from other areas. examples of such regulatory schema include: anti-spam laws.    we may be required to comply with current or future anti-spam legislation by limiting or modifying some of our interactive services, such as our clinical messaging, which may result in a reduction in our revenue. one such law, the controlling the assault of non-solicited pornography and marketing act of 2003, or can-spam, became effective in the united states on january 1, 2004. can-spam imposes complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with the sending of commercial e-mail. can-spam or similar laws may impose burdens on our member communication practices and on certain of our services, which in turn could harm our ability to attract new payer and pharmaceutical clients and increase revenues. antitrust laws.    our national cloud-based network allows us access to cost and pricing data for a large number of providers in most regional markets, as well as to the contracted rates for third-party payers. to the extent that our services enable providers to compare their cost and pricing data with those of their competitors, those providers could collude to increase the pricing for their services, to reduce the compensation they pay their employees, or to collectively negotiate agreements with third parties. similarly, if payers are able to compare their contracted rates of payment to providers, those payers may seek to reduce the amounts they might otherwise pay. such actions may be deemed to be anti-competitive and a 31 table of contents violation of federal antitrust laws. to the extent that we are deemed to have enabled such activities, we could be subject to fines and penalties imposed by the u.s. department of justice or the federal trade commission and be required to curtail or terminate the services that permitted such collusion. debt collection laws.    as a billing service that offers patient communication and registration services, our employees or those of our service providers may from time to time come into contact with patients who owe our practice clients outstanding amounts. communications with patients that relate to amounts owed may be deemed to subject us or our service providers to federal or state debt collection laws and regulations. such laws and regulations, if deemed to apply to us, could require registration with government agencies and compliance with significant administrative obligations (e.g., to maintain an in-state office with local employees), which could result in increased expenses and subject us to fines and penalties for violation. following the disclosure in 2012 of the methods used by debt collector accretive health to obtain payment of amounts owed by patients to one of its hospital clients, heightened focus on debt collection practices may lead to additional regulation and greater scrutiny of existing debt collection practices. privacy regulation.    the ftc and many state attorneys general are applying federal and state consumer protection laws to require that the online collection, use, and dissemination of data, and the presentation of website or other electronic content, comply with certain standards for notice, choice, security, and access. courts may also adopt these developing standards. a number of states, including california, have enacted laws or are considering the enactment of laws governing the release of credit card or other personal information received from consumers. in addition, several foreign governments have regulations dealing with the collection and use of personal information obtained from their citizens. for example, the european union, or eu, adopted the data protection directive, or dpd, imposing strict regulations and establishing a series of requirements regarding the collection and use of personally identifiable information online. the dpd provides for specific regulations requiring all non-eu countries doing business with eu member states to provide adequate data privacy protection when receiving personal data from any of the eu member states. similarly, canada’s personal information and protection of electronic documents act provides canadian residents with privacy protections in regard to transactions with businesses and organizations in the private sector and sets out ground rules for how private sector organizations may collect, use, and disclose personal information in the course of commercial activities. foreign governments may attempt to apply such laws extraterritorially or through treaties or other arrangements with u.s. governmental entities, and our practice management services for practices along the canadian border and our market research services could each involve the personal information of foreign residents. furthermore, in the conduct of our market research activities outside of the united states, we rely upon a third party to identify and recruit respondents for the market research and to comply with the applicable privacy laws in each jurisdiction in which it operates. we cannot assure you that this third party will successfully comply with such laws or that we would not be responsible for any failure of this third party to comply. while we have privacy policies posted with our services that we believe comply with applicable laws requiring notice to our users and practice clients about our information collection, use, and disclosure practices, we cannot assure you that the privacy policies and other statements regarding our practices will be found sufficient to protect us from liability or adverse publicity relating to the privacy and security of personal information. whether and how existing local and international privacy and consumer protection laws in various jurisdictions apply to the internet and other online technologies is still uncertain and may take years to resolve. privacy laws and regulations, if drafted or interpreted broadly, could be deemed to apply to the technology we use and could restrict our information collection methods or decrease the amount and utility of the information that we would be permitted to collect. the costs of compliance with, and the other burdens imposed by, these and other laws or regulatory actions may prevent us from selling our products or services, or increase the costs of doing so, and may affect our ability to invest in or jointly develop products. in addition, a determination by a court or government agency that any of our practices, or those of our agents, do not meet these standards could result in liability, result in adverse publicity, and adversely affect our business. errors or illegal activity on the part of our clients may result in claims against us. we require our clients to provide us with accurate and appropriate data and directives for our actions. we also rely upon our clients as users of our system to perform key activities in order to produce proper claims for reimbursement. failure of our clients to provide these data and directives or to perform these activities may result in claims against us alleging that our reliance was misplaced or unreasonable or that we have facilitated or otherwise participated in submission of false claims. if participants in our channel marketing and sales lead programs do not maintain appropriate relationships with current and potential clients, our sales accomplished with their help or data may be unwound and our payments to them may be deemed improper. we maintain a series of relationships with third parties that we term “channel relationships.” these relationships take different forms under different contractual language. some relationships help us identify sales leads. other relationships permit 32 table of contents third parties to act as value-added resellers or as independent sales representatives for our services. in some cases, for example in the case of some membership organizations, these relationships involve endorsement of our services as well as other marketing activities. in each of these cases, we require contractually that the third party disclose information to and limit their relationships with potential purchasers of our services for regulatory compliance reasons. if these third parties do not comply with these regulatory requirements or if our requirements are deemed insufficient, sales accomplished with the data or help that they have provided, as well as the channel relationships themselves, may not be enforceable, may be unwound, and may be deemed to violate relevant laws or regulations. third parties that, despite our requirements, exercise undue influence over decisions by current and prospective clients, occupy positions with obligations of fidelity or fiduciary obligations to current and prospective clients, or who offer bribes or kickbacks to current and prospective clients or their employees may be committing illegal acts that could render any resulting contract between us and the client unenforceable or in violation of relevant laws or regulations. any misconduct by these third parties with respect to current or prospective clients, any failure to follow contractual requirements, or any insufficiency of those contractual requirements may result in allegations that we have encouraged or participated in illegal behavior and that payments to such third parties under our channel contracts are improper. this misconduct could subject us to civil or criminal claims and liabilities, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our services fees, and adversely affect our revenue and operating margin. even an unsuccessful challenge of our activities could result in adverse publicity, require costly response from us, impair our ability to attract and maintain clients, and lead analysts or investors to reduce their expectations of our performance, resulting in reduction in the market price of our stock. our services present the potential for embezzlement, identity theft, or other similar illegal behavior by our employees or subcontractors with respect to third parties. among other things, our services involve handling mail from payers and from patients for many of our clients, and this mail frequently includes original checks and credit card information and occasionally includes currency. even in those cases in which we do not handle original documents or mail, our services also involve the use and disclosure of personal and business information that could be used to impersonate third parties or otherwise gain access to their data or funds. if any of our employees or subcontractors takes, converts, or misuses such funds, documents, or data, we could be liable for damages, and our business reputation could be damaged or destroyed. in addition, we could be perceived to have facilitated or participated in illegal misappropriation of funds, documents, or data and therefore be subject to civil or criminal liability. subsidy of services similar to ours may reduce client demand if we do not participate in such programs. in the past few years, various entities and federal programs have provided subsidies for services similar to ours, including ehr initiatives. while we have qualified for and participated in many of such subsidy programs, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. to the extent that we do not participate in such programs, demand for our services may be reduced, which may decrease our revenues. risks related to ownership of our common stock the price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. the trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to remain highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control or unrelated to our operating performance. in addition to the factors discussed in this “risk factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, these factors include: • the operating performance of similar companies; • the overall performance of the equity markets; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, business plans, or commercial relationships; • threatened or actual litigation; • changes in laws or regulations relating to the provision of health care or the sale of health insurance; • any major change in our board of directors or management; • publication of research reports or news stories about us, our competitors, or our industry or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; • large volumes of sales of our shares of common stock by existing stockholders; and • general political and economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general, and the market for internet-related companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those 33 table of contents companies. securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities. this litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs; divert our management’s attention and resources; and harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. if a substantial number of shares become available for sale and are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline. if our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately 37.3 million shares of common stock outstanding, with a large percentage held by a few institutional shareholders. moreover, certain holders of shares of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the shares they currently hold, or to include these shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. we have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our 1997 stock plan, 2000 stock plan, 2007 stock option and incentive plan, and 2007 employee stock purchase plan, and we have assumed the 1999 stock option plan, 2008 equity incentive plan, and 2010 equity incentive plan of epocrates, under which all issuable common stock has been registered. as of december 31, 2013, we had outstanding options to purchase approximately 2.2 million shares of common stock (approximately 1.4 million of which were exercisable at december 31, 2013) that, if exercised, would result in those shares becoming available for sale in the public market. as of december 31, 2013, we had outstanding restricted stock units totaling approximately 1.2 million that, if vested, would result in those shares becoming available for sale in the public market. if a large number of these shares are sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. actual or potential sales of our stock by our employees, including members of our senior management team, pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans could cause our stock price to fall or prevent it from increasing for numerous reasons, and actual or potential sales by such persons could be viewed negatively by other investors. in accordance with the guidelines specified under rule 10b5-1 of the securities and exchange act of 1934 and our policies regarding stock transactions, a number of our directors and employees, including members of our senior management team, have adopted and will continue to adopt pre-arranged stock trading plans to sell shares of our common stock that they hold or will hold as the result of exercise or vesting of equity grants. generally, stock sales under such plans by members of our senior management team and directors require public filings. actual or potential sales of our stock by such persons could cause our stock price to fall or prevent it from increasing for numerous reasons. for example, actual or potential sales by such persons could be viewed negatively by other investors. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws or delaware law might discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and delaware law may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, acquisition, or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which they might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. these provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. these provisions include: • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to make, alter, or repeal our by-laws. the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. as our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the effective number of votes required to make such changes could increase. also, absent approval of our board of directors, our by-laws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder (generally an entity that, together with its affiliates, owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% or more of our voting stock) for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the entity became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. 34 table of contents the existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. they could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that stockholders could receive a premium for their common stock in an acquisition. we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and, consequently, stockholders’ ability to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. we currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. therefore, investors are not likely to receive any dividends on their common stock for the foreseeable future, and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. there is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. item 1b. unresolved