item 1a. risk factors our business is dependent on customers’ capital spending on broadband communication systems, and reductions by customers in capital spending adversely affect our business. our performance is primarily dependent on customers’ capital spending for constructing, rebuilding, maintaining or upgrading broadband communications systems. capital spending in the telecommunications industry is cyclical and can be curtailed or deferred on short notice. a variety of factors affect capital spending, and, therefore, our sales and profits, including:     •   general economic conditions;     •   customer specific financial or stock market conditions;     •   availability and cost of capital;     •   governmental regulation;     •   demands for network services;     •   competition from other providers of broadband and high-speed services;     •   acceptance of new services offered by our customers; and     •   real or perceived trends or uncertainties in these factors. several of our customers have accumulated significant levels of debt. these high debt levels, coupled with the continued turbulence in the capital markets, may impact their access to capital in the future. even if the financial health of our customers remains intact, these customers may not purchase new equipment at levels we have seen in the past or expect in the future. while there has been improvement in the u.s. and global economy over the past year, we cannot predict the impact, if any, of any softening of the national of global economy or of specific customer financial challenges on our customer’s expansion and maintenance expenditures. the markets in which we operate are intensely competitive, and competitive pressures may adversely affect our results of operations. the markets in which we participate are dynamic, highly competitive and require companies to react quickly and capitalize on change. we must retain skilled and experienced personnel, as well as deploy substantial resources to meet the changing demands of the industry and must be nimble to be able to capitalize on change. we compete with international, national and regional manufacturers, distributors and wholesalers including some companies that are larger than we are. we list our major competitors in part i, item 1, “business.” in some instances, notably our software products, our customers themselves may be our competition as they may develop their own software. the rapid technological changes occurring in broadband may lead to the entry of new competitors, including those with substantially greater resources than our own. because the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid growth and, in some cases, low barriers to entry, smaller niche market companies and start-up ventures also may become principal competitors in the future. actions by existing competitors and the entry of new competitors may have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. in the future, technological advances could lead to the obsolescence of some of our current products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. further, several of our larger competitors may be in a better position to withstand any significant, sustained reduction in capital spending by customers. they often have broader product lines and market focus and therefore are not as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. in addition, several of our competitors have been in operation longer than we have been, and therefore they have more established relationships with domestic and foreign broadband service users. we may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and competition may negatively impact our business.   14 table of contents index to financial statements consolidations in the broadband communication systems industry could result in delays or reductions in purchases of products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. the broadband communication systems industry has historically experienced, and continues to experience, the consolidation of many industry participants. for example, comcast, our largest customer in 2013, recently announced its proposed acquisition of time warner cable, another of our top five customers. when consolidations occur, it is possible that the acquirer will not continue using the same suppliers, thereby possibly resulting in an immediate or future elimination of sales opportunities for us or our competitors. even if sales are not reduced, consolidation can also result in pressure from customers for lower prices, reflecting the increase in the total volume of products purchased or the elimination of a price differential between the acquiring customer and the company acquired. consolidations also could result in delays in purchasing decisions by the merged businesses. the purchasing decisions of the merged companies could have a material adverse effect on our business. the broadband communications industry on which our business is focused is significantly impacted by technological change and open architecture solutions. the broadband communication systems industry has gone through dramatic technological change resulting in service providers rapidly migrating their business from a one-way television service to a two-way communications network enabling multiple services, such as high-speed internet access, residential telephony services, business telephony services and internet access, digital television, video on demand and advertising services. new services, such as home security, power monitoring and control, hd television, 3-d television that are or may be offered by service providers, are also based on, and will be characterized by, rapidly evolving technology. the development of increasing transmission speed, density and bandwidth for internet traffic has also enabled the provision of high quality, feature length video over the internet. this so called over-the-top ip video service enables content providers such as netflix and hulu and portals like google to provide video services on-demand, by-passing traditional video service providers. as these service providers enhance their quality and scalability, traditional broadband service providers are moving to match them and provide even more competitive services over their existing networks, as well as over-the-top ip video for delivery not only to televisions but to computers, tablets, and telephones in order to remain competitive. our business is dependent on our ability to develop products that enable current and new customers to exploit these rapid technological changes. we believe the continued growth of over-the-top ip video represents a shift in the traditional video delivery paradigm, and we cannot predict the effect it will have on our business. in addition, the broadband communication systems industry has and will continue to demand a move toward open standards. the move toward open standards is expected to increase the number of service providers that will offer new services. this trend is expected to increase the number of competitors and drive down the capital costs per subscriber deployed. these factors may adversely impact both our future revenues and margins. the completion of the motorola home acquisition will continue to have a significant impact on our operations and financial statements going forward. in april 2013, we completed our acquisition of the motorola home business, which was significantly larger than our business prior to the acquisition. for the year ended december 31, 2012, motorola home had net sales of approximately $3.3 billion and total assets of approximately $2.5 billion, compared with our net sales of approximately $1.4 billion and total assets of $1.4 billion for the year ended december 31, 2012. in addition, we significantly increased our long-term debt in connection with the acquisition. given the significant increase in the size of our business as a result of the acquisition and the increase in our long-term debt, our historical results are not indicative of our combined operations going forward. the anticipated benefits from acquiring the motorola home business may not be realized. we acquired the motorola home business with the expectation that the transaction would result in various benefits, including, among other things, enhancing our current and future product offerings, strengthening our ability to capitalize on and manage changing industry trends and broadening our customer base.   15 table of contents index to financial statements the acquisition involves the combination of two companies that previously operated independently. the difficulties of combining motorola home’s operations with ours include:     •   combining the best practices of two companies, including research and development and sales functions;     •   the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities;     •   integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures;     •   reducing the costs associated with each company’s operations; and     •   preserving important relationships of both arris and motorola home and resolving potential conflicts that may arise. the process of combining operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our business and the possible loss of key personnel. the diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the acquisition and the integration of the two companies’ operations could have an adverse effect on the business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the combined company after the acquisition. in addition, we may experience unexpected difficulties and/or delays in combining motorola home systems with ours, including the subsequent testing related to applicable internal controls, or the discovery of material weaknesses with such internal controls, in a timely fashion which could have an adverse effect on our operations. in addition, our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties discussed elsewhere, including:     •   our ability to take advantage of expected growth opportunities;     •   general market and economic conditions;     •   general competitive factors in the industry and marketplace; and     •   higher than expected costs required to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. no assurance can be given that these benefits will be achieved or, if achieved, the timing of their achievement. failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs and decreases in expected revenues and/or net income following the acquisition. our use of the “motorola” brand name is limited. in connection with our acquisition of motorola home, we were granted the right, as extended, subject to certain conditions, to continue to use the motorola brand name on certain products for a period of two years after the acquisition. we sell those products in geographic regions and through distribution channels, especially retail, under the motorola brand where the “arris” brand is not as recognized. shelf space in retail outlets can also be impacted by how recognizable a brand is by customers. if we are unable to successfully rebrand those products, our sales in those regions and channels may decrease. further, the loss of the use of the “motorola” brand may result in a lower amount of shelf space, or space in less desirable areas, which may also impact our sales. while we have greater overall customer diversification following the motorola home acquisition, our business remains concentrated in a few key customers. the loss of one of these customers or a significant reduction in sales to one of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. our three largest customers (including their affiliates, as applicable) are comcast, time warner cable and verizon. for the year ended december 31, 2013, sales to comcast accounted for approximately 18.6% of our total revenue, sales to time warner cable accounted for approximately 9.9% of our total revenue and sales to verizon accounted for approximately 9.9% of our total revenue. while we have seen greater overall customer diversification as a result of the motorola home acquisition, sales to several customers, including verizon, have also significantly increased. the loss of one of our large customers, or a significant reduction in the products or services provided to any of them would have a material adverse impact on our business. for many of these customers, we also are one of their largest suppliers. as a result, if from time-to-time customers elect to purchase   16 table of contents index to financial statements products from our competitors in order to diversify their supplier base and to dual-source key products or to curtail purchasing due to budgetary or market conditions, such decisions could have material consequences to our business. in addition, because of the magnitude of our sales to these customers the terms and timing of our sales are heavily negotiated, and even minor changes can have a significant impact upon our business. we may face higher costs associated with protecting our intellectual property or obtaining necessary access to the intellectual property of others. our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology, product development, technological expertise and distribution channels. we cannot predict whether we can protect our technology or whether competitors can develop similar technology independently. given the dependence within our industry on patented technology, there are frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we have received, directly or indirectly, and expect to continue to receive, from third parties, including some of our competitors, notices claiming that we, or our customers using our products, have infringed upon third-party patents or other proprietary rights. we are a defendant in several proceedings (and other proceedings have been threatened) in which our customers were sued for patent infringement and sued, or made claims against, us and other suppliers for indemnification, and we may become involved in similar litigation involving these and other customers in the future, including as a result of our acquisition of motorola home. these claims, regardless of their merit, could result in costly litigation, divert the time, attention and resources of our management, delay our product shipments, and, in some cases, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. if a claim of product infringement against us is successful and we fail to obtain a license or develop non-infringing technology, we may be prohibited from marketing or selling certain products which could materially affect our business and operating results. in addition, the payment of any damages or any necessary licensing fees or indemnification costs associated with a patent infringement claim could be material and could also materially adversely affect our operating results. our indebtedness significantly increased in connection with our motorola home acquisition, which could limit our operations and opportunities, make it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts and/or may cause us to issue additional equity in the future, which would increase the dilution of our stockholders or reduce earnings. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $1.7 billion in total indebtedness. in addition, we have a $247.5 million available under our revolving line of credit to support our working capital needs. our debt service obligations with respect to this increased indebtedness could have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows for as long as the indebtedness is outstanding. this significant indebtedness could also have important consequences to stockholders. for example, it could:     •   make it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions because any decrease in revenues could cause us to not have sufficient cash flows from operations to make our scheduled debt payments;     •   limit our flexibility to pursue other strategic opportunities or react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and, consequently, place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt;     •   require a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; and     •   result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates since the majority of our debt is subject to variable rates. based upon current levels of operations, we expect to be able to generate sufficient cash on a consolidated basis to make all of the principal and interest payments when such payments are due under our senior secured credit facilities; but there can be no assurance that we will be able to repay or refinance such borrowings and obligations.   17 table of contents index to financial statements we may consider it appropriate to reduce the amount of indebtedness currently outstanding. this may be accomplished in several ways, including issuing additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock, reducing discretionary uses of cash or a combination of these and other measures. issuances of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock would have the effect of diluting the ownership percentage that stockholders will hold in the company and might reduce our reported earnings per share. we have substantial goodwill and amortizable intangible assets. our financial statements reflect substantial goodwill and intangible assets, approximately $935.6 million and $1,176.2 million, respectively, as of december 31, 2013, that was recognized in connection with acquisitions including the motorola home acquisition. we annually (and more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired) review the carrying amount of our goodwill in order to determine whether it has been impaired for accounting purposes. in general, if the fair value of the corresponding reporting unit’s goodwill is less that the carrying value of the goodwill, we record an impairment. the determination of fair value is dependent upon a number of factors, including assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates that are based on our current and long-term business plans. with respect to the amortizable intangible assets, we test recoverability when events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. examples of such circumstances include, but are not limited to, operating or cash flow losses from the use of such assets or changes in our intended uses of such assets. if we determine that an asset or asset group is not recoverable, then we would record an impairment charge if the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds its fair value. fair value is based on estimated discounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or asset group. the assumptions underlying cash flow projections would represent management’s best estimates at the time of the impairment review. we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $41.2 million and a non-cash intangible asset impairment charge of $47.4 million relating to our former media and communications systems segment (now included in our network & cloud segment) during the fourth quarter of 2011. no goodwill or intangible asset impairments were recorded in 2012 and 2013. as the ongoing expected cash flows and carrying amounts of our remaining goodwill and intangible assets are assessed, changes in the economic conditions, changes to our business strategy, changes in operating performance or other indicators of impairment could cause us to realize additional impairment charges in the future. for additional information, see the discussion under “critical accounting policies” in item 7, management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we may have difficulty in forecasting our sales. because a significant portion of the purchases by our customers are discretionary, accurately forecasting sales is difficult. in addition, in recent years our customers have submitted their purchase orders less evenly over the course of each quarter and year and with shorter lead times than they have historically. this, coupled with the significant increase in the size of our operations as a result of the motorola home acquisition, has made it even more difficult for us to forecast sales and other financial measures, which can result in us maintaining inventory levels that are too high or too low for our ultimate needs. products currently under development may fail to realize anticipated benefits. rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and relatively short product life cycles characterize the markets for our products. the technology applications that we currently are developing may not ultimately be successful. even if the products in development are successfully brought to market, they may not be widely used or we may not be able to capitalize successfully on their technology. to compete successfully, we must quickly design, develop, manufacture and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability. however, we may not be able to develop or introduce these products successfully if they:     •   are not cost-effective;   18 table of contents index to financial statements   •   are not brought to market in a timely manner;     •   fail to achieve market acceptance; or     •   fail to meet industry certification standards. furthermore, our competitors may develop similar or alternative technologies that, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on us. our strategic alliances are based on business relationships that have not been the subject of written agreements expressly providing for the alliance to continue for a significant period of time. the loss of a strategic relationship could have a material adverse effect on the progress of new products under development with that third party. defects within our products could have a material impact on our results. many of our products are complex technology that include both hardware and software components. it is not unusual for software, especially in earlier versions, to contain bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. while we employ rigorous testing prior to the shipment of our products, defects, including those resulting from components we purchase, may still occur from time to time. product defects could impact our reputation with our customers which may result in fewer sales. in addition, depending on the number of products affected, the cost of fixing or replacing such products could have a material impact on our operating results. our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all facets of our operations. competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel, which could impact our ability to maintain and grow our operations. our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our management to operate effectively. in the past, competitors and others have attempted to recruit our employees and their attempts may continue. the loss of services of any key personnel, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and other technical professionals, could negatively affect our business. we are substantially dependent on contract manufacturers, and an inability to obtain adequate and timely delivery of supplies could adversely affect our business. many components, subassemblies and modules necessary for the manufacture or integration of our products are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. our reliance on sole or limited suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our reliance on subcontractors involves several risks including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, subassemblies or modules and reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery of components, subassemblies or modules. an inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply could affect our ability to ship products on a timely basis. any inability to reliably ship our products on time could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business. our international operations may be adversely affected by changes in the foreign laws in the countries in which we and our manufacturers and assemblers have plants. a significant portion of our products are manufactured or assembled in china, mexico and taiwan. the governments of the foreign countries in which our products are manufactured may pass laws that impair our operations, such as laws that impose exorbitant tax obligations or nationalize these manufacturing facilities. in addition, we own manufacturing facilities located in tijuana, mexico and taipei, taiwan. these operations are exposed to certain risks as a result of its location, including:     •   changes in international trade laws including those affecting our import and export activities;     •   changes in labor laws and regulations affecting our ability to hire and retain employees;     •   fluctuations of foreign currency and exchange controls;     19 table of contents index to financial statements   •   potential political instability and changes in government;     •   potential regulatory changes; and     •   general economic conditions any of these risks could interfere with the operation of our facilities and result in reduced production, increased costs, or both. in the event that production capacity of either of these facilities is reduced, we could fail to ship products on schedule and could face a reduction in future orders from dissatisfied customers. if our costs to operate these facilities increase, our margins would decrease. reduced shipments and margins would have an adverse effect on our financial results. regional instability in israel may adversely affect business conditions, including the operations of our contract manufacturers, and may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our operating results. a portion of our research and development operations and a portion of our contract manufacturing occur in israel. we also have customer service, marketing and general and administrative employees at our israeli facility. accordingly, we are directly impacted by the political, economic and military conditions affecting israel, and any major hostilities involving israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between israel and its trading partners could significantly harm our business. in addition, in the past, israel and companies doing business with israel have been the subject of economic boycott. israel has also been and continues to be subject to civil unrest and terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity. security and political conditions may have an adverse impact on our business in the future. hostilities involving israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations and make it more difficult for us to retain or recruit qualified personnel in israel. in addition, most of our employees in israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the israeli defense forces and several have been called for active military duty in connection with intermittent hostilities over the years. should hostilities in the region escalate again, some of our employees would likely be called to active military duty, possibly resulting in interruptions in our sales and development efforts and other impacts on our business and operations, which we cannot currently assess. we face risks relating to currency fluctuations and currency exchange. on an ongoing basis we are exposed to various changes in foreign currency rates because significant sales are denominated in foreign currencies. additionally, certain intercompany transactions created in conjunction with the motorola home acquisition are denominated in foreign currencies and subject to revaluation. these changes can impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. we manage these risks through regular operating and financing activities and periodically use derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward and option contracts. there can be no assurance that our risk management strategies will be effective. argentina is currently experiencing significant currency devaluation. we cannot predict the impact of such devaluation on our business in argentina. we also may encounter difficulties in converting our earnings from international operations to u.s. dollars for use in the united states. these obstacles may include problems moving funds out of the countries in which the funds were earned and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries where the usual accounts receivable payment cycle is longer. we depend on channel partners to sell our products in certain regions and are subject to risks associated with these arrangements. we utilize distributors, value-added resellers, system integrators, and manufacturers’ representatives to sell our products to certain customers and in certain geographic regions to improve our access to these customers and regions and to lower our overall cost of sales and post-sales support. our sales through channel partners are subject to a number of risks, including:     •   ability of our selected channel partners to effectively sell our products to end customers;     20 table of contents index to financial statements   •   our ability to continue channel partner arrangements into the future since most are for a limited term and subject to mutual agreement to extend;     •   a reduction in gross margins realized on sale of our products; and     •   a diminution of contact with end customers which, over time, could adversely impact our ability to develop new products that meet customers’ evolving requirements. the acquisition of motorola home may not be accretive to our earnings and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. we currently anticipate that the acquisition will be accretive to our earnings per share in the first full year following the completion of the acquisition and thereafter. this expectation is based on preliminary estimates that may materially change. we may encounter additional integration-related costs, may fail to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the acquisition or be subject to other factors that adversely affect preliminary estimates. any of these factors could cause delay or significantly reduce the expected accretive effect of the acquisition and contribute to a decrease in the price of our common stock. our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. our common stock is currently traded on the nasdaq global select market. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. our stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors including:     •   future announcements concerning us, key customers or competitors;     •   quarterly variations in operating results;     •   changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;     •   developments with respect to technology or litigation;     •   the operating and stock price performance of our competitors; and     •   acquisitions and financings. fluctuations in the stock market, generally, also impact the volatility of our stock price. general stock market movements may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. new regulations related to conflict minerals may adversely affect us. we are subject to recently adopted sec disclosure obligations relating to its use of so-called “conflict minerals” - columbite-tantalite, cassiterite (tin), wolframite (tungsten) and gold. these minerals are present in a significant number of our products. the first reports under the disclosure obligations are due to be filed with the sec not later than may 2014 and cover the company’s activities during 2013. although we expect to be able to file the required report on time, in preparing to do so we are dependent upon the implementation of new systems and processes and information supplied by suppliers of products that contain, or potentially contain, conflict minerals. to the extent that the information that we receive from our suppliers is inaccurate or inadequate or our processes in obtaining that information do not fulfill the sec’s requirements, we could face reputational risks. further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict mineral free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. the company is currently in the process of assessing compliance and does not believe there will be any material financial or business impact on the company as a result. cyber-security incidents, including data security breaches or computer viruses, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services, damaging our reputation or exposing us to liability. we receive, process, store and transmit, often electronically, the confidential data of our clients and others. unauthorized access to our computer systems or stored data could result in the theft or improper disclosure of   21 table of contents index to financial statements confidential information, the deletion or modification of records or could cause interruptions in our operations. these cyber-security risks increase when we transmit information from one location to another, including transmissions over the internet or other electronic networks. despite implemented security measures, our facilities, systems and procedures, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, software viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events which may disrupt our delivery of services or expose the confidential information of our clients and others. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential information of our clients or others, whether by us or a third party, could (i) subject us to civil and criminal penalties, (ii) have a negative impact on our reputation, or (iii) expose us to liability to our clients, third parties or government authorities. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have not experienced any such incidents that have had material consequences to date. we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by the terms of our senior secured credit facilities. payment of dividends in the future will depend on, among other things, business conditions, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. we have the ability to issue preferred shares without stockholder approval. our common stock may be subordinate to classes of preferred shares issued in the future in the payment of dividends and other distributions made with respect to common stock, including distributions upon liquidation or dissolution. our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue preferred shares without first obtaining stockholder approval. if we issued preferred shares, these additional securities may have dividend or liquidation preferences senior to the common stock. if we issue convertible preferred shares, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders’ interest. also, the issuance of preferred shares or rights to acquire preferred shares may have an anti-takeover impact.   item 1b. unresolved