item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business and operations and investments in our securities our business is dependent on customers’ capital spending on broadband communication systems, and reductions by customers in capital spending adversely affect our business. our performance is dependent on customers’ capital spending for constructing, rebuilding, maintaining or upgrading broadband communications systems. capital spending in the telecommunications industry is cyclical and can be curtailed or deferred on short notice. a variety of factors affect the amount of capital spending, and, therefore, our sales and profits, including:     •   general economic conditions;     •   customer specific financial or stock market conditions;     •   availability and cost of capital;     •   governmental regulation;     •   demands for network services;     •   competition from other providers of broadband and high-speed services;     •   acceptance of new services offered by our customers; and     •   real or perceived trends or uncertainties in these factors. several of our customers have accumulated significant levels of debt. these high debt levels, coupled with the continued turbulence and uncertainty in the capital markets, may impact their access to capital in the future. even if the financial health of our customers remains intact, these customers may not purchase new equipment at levels we have seen in the past or expect in the future. while there are signs of improvement from the historical housing market disruptions and foreclosures, as well as the material disruptions in the credit markets, that occurred beginning in 2008, we cannot predict the impact if any of the impact of the continued economic uncertainty or of specific customer financial challenges on our customer’s expansion and maintenance expenditures. the markets in which we operate are intensely competitive, and competitive pressures may adversely affect our results of operations. the broadband communication systems industry is extremely competitive and dynamic, requiring the companies that compete to react quickly and capitalize on change. this requires us to retain skilled and experienced personnel as well as to deploy substantial resources toward meeting the ever-changing demands of the industry. we compete with national and international manufacturers, distributors and wholesalers including many companies that are larger than we are. our major competitors include:     •   aurora networks;     •   casa systems, inc.:     •   cisco systems, inc.;   18 table of contents index to financial statements   •   commscope, inc.;     •   concurrent computer corporation;     •   emcore corporation;     •   ericsson (tandbergtv);     •   google, inc. (motorola mobility, inc.);     •   harmonic, inc.;     •   hitron technologies americas, inc.;     •   huawei;     •   pace plc;     •   rgb;     •   seachange, inc.;     •   smc networks;     •   technicolor, inc.;     •   tvc communications, inc.;     •   ubee interactive, inc.;     •   vecima networks inc.; and     •   zte; in some instances, notably our software products, our customers themselves may be our competition as they may develop their own software. the rapid technological changes occurring in broadband may lead to the entry of new competitors, including those with substantially greater resources than our own. because the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid growth and, in some cases, low barriers to entry, smaller niche market companies and start-up ventures also may become principal competitors in the future. actions by existing competitors and the entry of new competitors may have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. the broadband communications industry is further characterized by rapid technological change. in the future, technological advances could lead to the obsolescence of some of our current products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. further, many of our larger competitors are in a better position to withstand any significant, sustained reduction in capital spending by customers. they often have broader product lines and market focus and therefore are not as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. in addition, several of our competitors have been in operation longer than we have been, and therefore they have more established relationships with domestic and foreign broadband service users. we may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and competition may negatively impact our business. consolidations in the telecommunications industry could result in delays or reductions in purchases of products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. the telecommunications industry has experienced the consolidation of many industry participants. when consolidations occur, it is possible that the acquirer will not continue using the same suppliers, thereby possibly resulting in an immediate or future elimination of sales opportunities for us or our competitors, depending upon who had the business initially. consolidations also could result in delays in purchasing decisions by the merged businesses. the purchasing decisions of the merged companies could have a material adverse effect on our business.   19 table of contents index to financial statements mergers among the supplier base also have increased. larger combined companies with pooled capital resources may be able to provide solution alternatives with which we would be put at a disadvantage to compete. the larger breadth of product offerings by these consolidated suppliers could result in customers electing to trim their supplier base for the advantages of one-stop shopping solutions for all of their product needs. consolidation of the supplier base could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business is highly concentrated in the cable television portion of the telecommunications industry, which is significantly impacted by technological change and open architecture solutions. the cable television industry has gone through dramatic technological change resulting in msos rapidly migrating their business from a one-way television service to a two-way communications network enabling multiple services, such as high-speed internet access, residential telephony services, business telephony services and internet access, video on demand and advertising services. new services that are, or may be offered by msos and other service providers, such as home security, power monitoring and control, high definition television, 3-d television, and a host of other new home services also are based on and will be characterized by rapidly evolving technology. the development of increasing transmission speed, density and bandwidth for internet traffic has also enabled the provision of high quality, feature length video over the internet. this so called over-the-top ip video service enables content providers such as netflix, hulu, cbs and portals like google to provide video services on-demand, by-passing traditional video service providers. as these service providers enhance their quality and scalability, msos are moving to match them and provide even more competitive services over their existing networks, as well as over-the-top for delivery not only to televisions but to the computers, tablets, and telephones in order to remain competitive. our business is dependent on our ability to develop the products that enable current and new customers to exploit these rapid technological changes. we believe the growth of over-the-top video represents a shift in the traditional video delivery paradigm, and we cannot predict the effect it will have on our business. in addition, the cable industry has and will continue to demand a move toward open standards. the move toward open standards is expected to increase the number of msos that will offer new services. this trend is expected to increase the number of competitors and drive down the capital costs per subscriber deployed. these factors may adversely impact both our future revenues and margins. our business comes primarily from a few key customers. the loss of one of these customers or a significant reduction in sales to one of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. our two largest customers (including their affiliates, as applicable) are comcast and time warner cable. for the year ended december 31, 2012, sales to comcast accounted for approximately 31.2% and sales to time warner cable accounted for approximately 18.0% of our total revenue. the loss of either of these customers, or one of our other large customers, or a significant reduction in the products or services provided to any of them would have a material adverse impact on our business. for each of these customers, we also are one of their largest suppliers. as a result, if from time-to-time customers elect to purchase products from our competitors in order to diversify their supplier base and to dual-source key products or to curtail purchasing due to budgetary or market conditions, such decisions could have material consequences to our business. in addition, because of the magnitude of our sales to these customers the terms and timing of our sales are heavily negotiated, and even minor changes can have a significant impact upon our business. we may face higher costs associated with protecting our intellectual property or obtaining access necessary to intellectual property of others. our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology, product development, technological expertise and distribution channels. we cannot predict whether we can protect our technology or whether competitors can develop similar technology independently. we have received, directly or indirectly, and expect to continue to receive, from third parties, including some of our competitors, notices claiming that we, or our customers using our products, have infringed upon third-party patents or other proprietary rights. we are a defendant in several proceedings (and other proceedings have been threatened) in which our customers were sued for patent infringement and sued, or made claims against, us and other suppliers for indemnification, and we may become involved in similar litigation involving these and other customers in the future, including as a result of our pro-   20 table of contents index to financial statements posed acquisition of the motorola home business. in connection with the acquisition of the motorola home business, we have also agreed to indemnify google for up to $50 million in losses related to certain ongoing claims involving motorola home that we are not assuming as part of the transaction. these claims, regardless of their merit, result in costly litigation, divert the time, attention and resources of our management, delay our product shipments, and, in some cases, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. if a claim of product infringement against us is successful and we fail to obtain a license or develop non-infringing technology, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, the payment of any damages or any necessary licensing fees or indemnification costs associated with a patent infringement claim could be material and could also materially adversely affect our operating results. see part i, item 3, “legal proceedings.” we have substantial goodwill and amortizable intangible assets. our financial statements reflect substantial goodwill and intangible assets, approximately $194.1 million and $94.5 million, respectively, as of december 31, 2012, that were recognized in connection with the acquisitions that we have made. we annually (and more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired) review the carrying amount of our goodwill in order to determine whether it has been impaired for accounting purposes. in general, if the fair value of the corresponding reporting unit’s goodwill is less that the carrying value of the goodwill, we record an impairment. the determination of fair value is dependent upon a number of factors, including assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates that are based on our current and long-term business plans. with respect to the amortizable intangible assets, we test recoverability when events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. examples of such circumstances include, but are not limited to, operating or cash flow losses from the use of such assets or changes in our intended uses of such assets. if we determine that an asset or asset group is not recoverable, then we would record an impairment charge if the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds its fair value. fair value is based on estimated discounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or asset group. the assumptions underlying cash flow projections would represent management’s best estimates at the time of the impairment review. we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $41.2 million and a non-cash intangible asset impairment charge of $47.4 million relating to our mcs reporting unit during the fourth quarter of 2011. no goodwill or intangible asset impairments were recorded in 2010 or 2012. as the ongoing expected cash flows and carrying amounts of our remaining goodwill and intangible assets are assessed, changes in the economic conditions, changes to our business strategy, changes in operating performance or other indicators of impairment could cause us to realize additional impairment charges in the future. for additional information, see the discussion under critical accounting policies in item 7, management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we may have difficulty in forecasting our sales. because a significant portion of the purchases by our customers are discretionary, accurately forecasting sales is difficult. in addition, in recent years our customers have submitted their purchase orders less evenly over the course of each quarter and year and with shorter lead times than they have historically. this has made it even more difficult for us to forecast sales and other financial measures, which can result in us maintaining inventory levels that are too high or too low for our ultimate needs. our business has and is expected to have higher levels of software sales, which may result in greater volatility in our operating results. the level of our media & communications systems sales fluctuates significantly quarter to quarter, which results in greater volatility of our operating results than has been typical in the past, when the main source of volatility was the high proportion of quick-turn product sales. the timing of revenue recognition on software and system sales is based on specific contract terms and, in certain cases, is dependent upon completion of certain activities and customer acceptance which are difficult to forecast accurately. in addition, the level of software sales in our bcs segment is expected to increase.   21 table of contents index to financial statements because the gross margins associated with software and systems sales are substantially higher than our average gross margins, fluctuations in quarterly software sales have a disproportionate effect on operating results and earnings per share and could result in our operating results falling short of the expectations of the investment community. products currently under development may fail to realize anticipated benefits. rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and relatively short product life cycles characterize the markets for our products. the technology applications that we currently are developing may not ultimately be successful. even if the products in development are successfully brought to market, they may not be widely used or we may not be able to successfully capitalize on their technology. to compete successfully, we must quickly design, develop, manufacture and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability. however, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce these products if they:     •   are not cost-effective;     •   are not brought to market in a timely manner;     •   fail to achieve market acceptance; or     •   fail to meet industry certification standards. furthermore, our competitors may develop similar or alternative technologies that, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on us. our strategic alliances are based on business relationships that have not been the subject of written agreements expressly providing for the alliance to continue for a significant period of time. the loss of a strategic relationship could have a material adverse effect on the progress of new products under development with that third party. our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all facets of our operations. competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel, which could impact our ability to maintain and grow our operations. our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our management to operate effectively. in the past, competitors and others have attempted to recruit our employees and in the future, their attempts may continue. the loss of services of any key personnel, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and other technical professionals, could negatively affect our business. we are substantially dependent on contract manufacturers, and an inability to obtain adequate and timely delivery of supplies could adversely affect our business. many components, subassemblies and modules necessary for the manufacture or integration of our products are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. our reliance on sole or limited suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our reliance on subcontractors involves several risks including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, subassemblies or modules and reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery of components, subassemblies or modules. historically, we have not maintained long-term agreements with any of our suppliers or subcontractors. an inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply could affect our ability to ship products on a timely basis. any inability to reliably ship our products on time could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business. our international operations may be adversely affected by any decline in the demand for broadband systems designs and equipment in international markets. sales of broadband communications equipment into international markets are an important part of our business. our products are marketed and made available to existing and new potential international customers. in addition, united states broadband system designs and equipment are increasingly being employed in international markets, where market penetration is relatively lower than in the united states. while international operations are expected to comprise an integral part of our future business, international markets may no longer continue to develop at the current rate, or at all. we may fail to receive additional contracts to supply equipment in these markets.   22 table of contents index to financial statements our international operations may be adversely affected by changes in the foreign laws in the countries in which we and our manufacturers and assemblers have plants. a significant portion of our products are manufactured or assembled in china and mexico. the governments of the foreign countries in which our products are manufactured may pass laws that impair our operations, such as laws that impose exorbitant tax obligations or nationalize these manufacturing facilities. in addition, we own a manufacturing facility located in tijuana, mexico. this operation is exposed to certain risks as a result of its location, including:     •   changes in international trade laws, such as the north american free trade agreement and prosec, affecting our import and export activities;     •   changes in, or expiration of, the mexican government’s immex (manufacturing industry maquiladora and export services) program, which provides economic benefits to us;     •   changes in labor laws and regulations affecting our ability to hire and retain employees;     •   fluctuations of foreign currency and exchange controls;     •   potential political instability and changes in the mexican government;     •   potential regulatory changes; and     •   general economic conditions in mexico. any of these risks could interfere with the operation of this facility and result in reduced production, increased costs, or both. in the event that production capacity of this facility is reduced, we could fail to ship products on schedule and could face a reduction in future orders from dissatisfied customers. if our costs to operate this facility increase, our margins would decrease. reduced shipments and margins would have an adverse effect on our financial results. regional instability in israel may adversely affect business conditions, including the operations of our contract manufacturers, and may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our operating results. a portion of our research and development operations and a portion of our contract manufacturing occurs in israel. as of january 31, 2013, we had approximately 115 full-time employees located in israel. we also have customer service, marketing and general and administrative employees at our facility. accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting israel, and any major hostilities there involving israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between israel and its trading partners could significantly harm our business. in addition, in the past, israel and companies doing business with israel have been the subject of an economic boycott. israel has also been and is subject to civil unrest and terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity, for the last decade. security and political conditions may have an adverse impact on our business in the future. hostilities involving israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations and make it more difficult for us to retain or recruit qualified personnel in israel. in addition, most of our employees in israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the israeli defense forces and several have been called for active military duty in connection with intermittent hostilities over the years. should hostilities in the region escalate again, some of our employees would likely be called to active military duty, possibly resulting in interruptions in our sales and development efforts and other impacts on our business and operations, which we cannot currently assess. we face risks relating to currency fluctuations and currency exchange. on an ongoing basis we are exposed to various changes in foreign currency rates because significant sales are denominated in foreign currencies. these risk factors can impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. we manage these risks through regular operating and financing activities and periodically use derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward and option contracts. there can be no assurance that our risk management strategies will be effective.   23 table of contents index to financial statements we also may encounter difficulties in converting our earnings from international operations to u.s. dollars for use in the united states. these obstacles may include problems moving funds out of the countries in which the funds were earned and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries where the usual accounts receivable payment cycle is longer. we depend on channel partners to sell our products in certain regions and are subject to risks associated with these arrangements. we utilize distributors, value-added resellers, system integrators, and manufacturers’ representatives to sell our products to certain customers and in certain geographic regions to improve our access to these customers and regions and to lower our overall cost of sales and post-sales support. our sales through channel partners are subject to a number of risks, including:     •   ability of our selected channel partners to effectively sell our products to end customers;     •   our ability to continue channel partner arrangements into the future since most are for a limited term and subject to mutual agreement to extend;     •   a reduction in gross margins realized on sale of our products; and     •   a diminution of contact with end customers which, over time, could adversely impact our ability to develop new products that meet customers’ evolving requirements. our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. our common stock is currently traded on the nasdaq global select market. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. our stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors including:     •   future announcements concerning us, key customers or competitors;     •   quarterly variations in operating results;     •   changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;     •   developments with respect to technology or litigation;     •   the operating and stock price performance of our competitors; and     •   acquisitions and financings. fluctuations in the stock market, generally, also impact the volatility of our stock price. general stock market movements may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. cyber-security incidents, including data security breaches or computer viruses, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services, damaging our reputation or exposing us to liability. we receive, process, store and transmit, often electronically, the confidential data of our clients and others. unauthorized access to our computer systems or stored data could result in the theft or improper disclosure of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records or could cause interruptions in our operations. these cyber-security risks increase when we transmit information from one location to another, including transmissions over the internet or other electronic networks. despite implemented security measures, our facilities, systems and procedures, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, software viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events which may disrupt our delivery of services or expose the confidential information of our clients and others. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential information of our clients or others, whether by us or a third party, could (i) subject us to civil and criminal penalties, (ii) have a negative impact on our reputation, or (iii) expose us to liability to our clients, third parties or government authorities. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have not experienced any such incidents that have material consequences to date.   24 table of contents index to financial statements we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. although from time to time we may consider repurchasing shares of our common stock, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. in addition, the payment of dividends in certain circumstances may be prohibited by the terms of our current and future indebtedness. we have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. we have a shareholder rights plan (commonly known as a “poison pill”). this plan is not intended to prevent a takeover, but is intended to protect and maximize the value of stockholders’ interests. however, the plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or may delay that process. we have the ability to issue preferred shares without stockholder approval. our common shares may be subordinate to classes of preferred shares issued in the future in the payment of dividends and other distributions made with respect to common shares, including distributions upon liquidation or dissolution. our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue preferred shares without first obtaining stockholder approval. if we issued preferred shares, these additional securities may have dividend or liquidation preferences senior to the common shares. if we issue convertible preferred shares, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders’ interest. risks related to our proposed acquisition of the motorola home business the acquisition may not be completed, which could adversely affect our business operations and stock price. completion of the acquisition of the motorola home business is subject to a number of customary closing conditions, including receipt of necessary antitrust clearances, which may not be satisfied or waived. if we are unable to complete the acquisition, we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following:     •   we would not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, including, among other things, enhancing our product offerings and broadening our customer base;     •   the attention of our management may have been diverted to the transaction rather than to our operations and the pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us;     •   the potential loss of key personnel during the pendency of the acquisition as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the company;   •   we will have been subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business, which may prevent us from making certain acquisitions or dispositions or pursuing certain business opportunities while the acquisition is pending; and     •   the trading price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the acquisition will be completed. we are required to pay a termination fee of $117.5 million if we terminate the acquisition under certain circumstances specified in the acquisition agreement. the occurrence of any of these events individually or in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. the acquisition is subject to clearance from governmental antitrust authorities that could delay or prevent the completion of the acquisition or impose conditions that could have a material adverse effect on us or that could cause abandonment of the acquisition. to complete the acquisition, we and google inc. need to obtain receive clearance from u.s. and certain foreign antitrust regulatory authorities. while we believe that we will receive the required clearances for the acquisition, there can be no assurance as to the receipt or timing of receipt of these clearances. if such clearances are received, they may impose terms (i) that do not satisfy the conditions set forth in the acquisition agreement, which could permit us or google inc. to terminate the acquisition agreement or (ii) that could reasonably be expected to have a detrimental impact on us following completion of the acquisition. if we or google inc. termi-   25 table of contents index to financial statements nate the acquisition agreement in certain circumstances related to the failure to obtain necessary antitrust clearances, we will be required to pay google inc. a termination fee of $117.5 million. a substantial delay in obtaining the required clearances or the imposition of unfavorable terms, conditions or restrictions contained in such clearances could prevent the completion of the acquisition or have an adverse effect on the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, thereby impacting our business, financial condition or results of operations. even after the statutory antitrust law waiting period has expired, governmental authorities could seek to block or challenge the acquisition as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest. we are subject to contractual restrictions in the acquisition agreement that may hinder operations pending the acquisition. the acquisition agreement restricts each company, without the other’s consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the acquisition occurs or the acquisition agreement is terminated. these restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the acquisition or termination of the acquisition agreement. we will be subject to various uncertainties while the acquisition is pending that may cause disruption and may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with employees, suppliers, or customers. uncertainty about the effect of the acquisition on employees, suppliers and customers may have an adverse effect on us. although are taking steps designed to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair our abilities to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the acquisition is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to seek to change or terminate existing business relationships with us or not enter into new relationships or transactions. employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior to the completion of the acquisition, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the company following the acquisition. if, despite our retention and recruiting efforts, key employees depart or fail to continue employment with us because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, our operational and financial performance following the acquisition could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain key employees and skilled workers. the loss of the services of key employees and skilled workers and their experience and knowledge regarding our business could adversely affect our future operating results and the successful ongoing operation of our businesses. the acquisition may not be accretive to our earnings and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. we currently anticipate that the acquisition will be accretive to our earnings per share in the first full year following the completion of the acquisition and thereafter. this expectation is based on preliminary estimates which may materially change. we may encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs, may fail to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the acquisition or be subject to other factors that affect preliminary estimates. any of these factors could cause delay or significantly reduce the expected accretive effect of the acquisition and contribute to a decrease in the price of our common shares. if the transaction is completed, the anticipated benefits from acquiring the motorola home business may not be realized. we entered into the acquisition agreement with the expectation that the transaction would result in various benefits, including, among other things, enhancing our current and future product offerings, strengthening our ability to capitalize on and manage changing industry trends and broadening our customer base. although we expect to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, achieving them is subject to a number of uncertainties, including:     •   whether united states federal and foreign antitrust authorities, whose clearance is required to complete the acquisition, impose conditions on the acquisition, which may have an adverse effect on us, including our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition;   26 table of contents index to financial statements   •   our ability to combine the motorola home operations with our current operations or take advantage of expected growth opportunities;     •   general market and economic conditions;     •   general competitive factors in the industry and marketplace; and     •   higher than expected costs required to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. no assurance can be given that these benefits will be achieved or, if achieved, the timing of their achievement. failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs and decreases in the amount of expected revenues or net income following the acquisition. the integration of the motorola home business following the acquisition will present significant challenges that may result in a decline in the anticipated potential benefits of the acquisition. the acquisition involves the combination of two companies that previously operated independently. the difficulties of combining motorola home’s operations with ours include:     •   combining the best practices of two companies, including research and development and sales functions;     •   the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities;     •   integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures;     •   reducing the costs associated with each company’s operations; and     •   preserving important relationships of both arris and motorola home and resolving potential conflicts that may arise. the process of combining operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our business and the possible loss of key personnel. the diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the acquisition and the integration of the two companies’ operations could have an adverse effect on the business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the combined company after the acquisition. we will incur significant transaction-related costs in connection with the acquisition and our related holding company formation. we expect to incur costs associated with forming a holding company and combining the operations of motorola home with ours, as well as transaction fees and other costs related to the acquisition. we are in the early stages of assessing the magnitude of these costs and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses. although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, may offset incremental transaction- related costs over time, any net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. current shareholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest after the acquisition. in connection with the acquisition and the related financing, we expect to issue up to approximately 21.2 million shares of common stock. as a result, our current shareholders are expected to hold approximately 84% of the total shares of our common stock outstanding immediately following the completion of the transaction. if the acquisition occurs, each of our shareholders will become a shareholder of the new holding company with a percentage ownership, following the acquisition, that is smaller than the shareholder’s current percentage ownership. as a result of these reduced ownership percentages, our shareholders will have less influence on the management and policies of the combined company than they now have with respect to us. we will record goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect our future operating results. we will account for the transaction as an acquisition in accordance with gaap. under the acquisition method of accounting, the motorola home assets and liabilities will be recognized and measured, as of the acquisition date, at their respective fair values and included in our consolidated results of operation. under the acquisition method of accounting, the total consideration transferred will be assigned to the motorola home   27 table of contents index to financial statements tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets acquired based on their fair values as of the acquisition date. the excess of the consideration transferred over those fair values will be recorded as goodwill. we expect that the acquisition will result in the creation of additional goodwill. to the extent the value of goodwill or intangibles becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to such impairment. such a potential impairment charge could have a material impact on our future operating results. our indebtedness following the acquisition will be significantly higher than our existing indebtedness, which could limit our operations and opportunities, make it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts and may cause us to issue additional equity in the future, which would increase the dilution of our shareholders or reduce earnings. as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately $232 million in total indebtedness. in connection with the acquisition, we will incur approximately $1.925 billion of additional debt to pay the acquisition consideration and transactions expenses. in addition, we expect to obtain a $250 million revolving line of credit to support our working capital needs following the acquisition. our debt service obligations with respect to this increased indebtedness could have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows for as long as the indebtedness is outstanding. this increased indebtedness could also have important consequences to shareholders. for example, it could:     •   make it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions because any decrease in revenues could cause us to not have sufficient cash flows from operations to make our scheduled debt payments;     •   limit our flexibility to pursue other strategic opportunities or react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and, consequently, place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt;     •   require a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; and     •   result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates since some of our debt will continue to be at variable rates. based upon current levels of operations, we expect to be able to generate sufficient cash on a consolidated basis to make all of the principal and interest payments when such payments are due under our existing and anticipated credit agreements, indentures and other instruments governing our indebtedness; but there can be no assurance that we will be able to repay or refinance such borrowings and obligations. we may consider it appropriate to reduce the amount of indebtedness outstanding following the acquisition. this may be accomplished in several ways, including issuing additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock, reducing discretionary uses of cash or a combination of these and other measures. issuances of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock would have the effect of diluting the ownership percentage that shareholders will hold in the company and might reduce our reported earnings per share. as a holding company, we will be dependent on the operations and funds of our subsidiaries. after the completion of the reorganization, arris will be a holding company with no business operations of its own. arris’ only significant assets will be the outstanding common stock and membership interests in its subsidiaries, including those acquired with the motorola home business. as a result, we will rely on payments from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. we currently expect that a significant portion of the cash flows of our subsidiaries upon the completion of the reorganization, will be retained and used by then in their operations, including to service any debt obligations. additionally, in the future, subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to the new holding company, which may limit the payment of cash dividends or other distributions, if any, to the holders of our common stock. future credit facilities and other debt obligations of the holding company, as well as statutory provisions, may limit the ability of the holding company and its subsidiaries to pay dividends.   28 table of contents index to financial statements item 1b. unresolved