item 1a.   risk factors   our business is dependent on customers’ capital spending on broadband communication systems, and reductions by customers in capital spending adversely affect our business.   our performance is dependent on customers’ capital spending for constructing, rebuilding, maintaining or upgrading broadband communications systems. capital spending in the telecommunications industry is cyclical and can be curtailed or deferred on short notice. a variety of factors affect the amount of capital spending, and, therefore, our sales and profits, including:     •  general economic conditions;     •  customer specific financial or stock market conditions;     •  availability and cost of capital;     •  governmental regulation;     •  demands for network services;     •  competition from other providers of broadband and high speed services;     •  acceptance of new services offered by our customers; and     •  real or perceived trends or uncertainties in these factors.   several of our customers have accumulated significant levels of debt. these high debt levels, coupled with the current turbulence and uncertainty in the capital markets, may impact their access to capital in the future. even if the financial health of our customers remains intact, these customers may not purchase new equipment at levels we have seen in the past or expect in the future. during the later part of 2008 and most of 2009, the economy and financial markets were heavily impacted by housing market disruptions and foreclosures as well as the material disruptions in 17 table of contents the credit markets. we cannot predict the impact if any of the recent financial market turmoil, or of specific customer financial challenges on our customer’s expansion and maintenance expenditures.   the markets in which we operate are intensely competitive, and competitive pressures may adversely affect our results of operations.   the markets for broadband communication systems are extremely competitive and dynamic, requiring the companies that compete in these markets to react quickly and capitalize on change. this requires us to retain skilled and experienced personnel as well as to deploy substantial resources toward meeting the ever-changing demands of the industry. we compete with national and international manufacturers, distributors and wholesalers including many companies that are larger than we are. our major competitors include:     •  aurora networks;     •  bigband networks;     •  casa systems, inc.:     •  cisco systems, inc.;     •  commscope, inc.;     •  concurrent computer corporation;     •  ericsson (tandbergtv);     •  harmonic, inc.;     •  motorola, inc.;     •  seachange, inc.;     •  smc networks;     •  technicolor, inc.;     •  tvc communications, inc.:     •  ubee interactive, inc   in some instances, notably our software products, our customers themselves may be our competition as they may develop their own software. the rapid technological changes occurring in the broadband markets may lead to the entry of new competitors, including those with substantially greater resources than our own. because the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid growth and, in some cases, low barriers to entry, smaller niche market companies and start-up ventures also may become principal competitors in the future. actions by existing competitors and the entry of new competitors may have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. the broadband communications industry is further characterized by rapid technological change. in the future, technological advances could lead to the obsolescence of some of our current products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.   further, many of our larger competitors are in a better position to withstand any significant, sustained reduction in capital spending by customers. they often have broader product lines and market focus and therefore are not as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. in addition, several of our competitors have been in operation longer than we have been, and therefore they have more established relationships with domestic and foreign broadband service users. we may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and competition may negatively impact our business.   consolidations in the telecommunications industry could result in delays or reductions in purchases of products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.   the telecommunications industry has experienced the consolidation of many industry participants. when consolidations occur, it is possible that the acquirer will not continue using the same suppliers, thereby possibly 18 table of contents resulting in an immediate or future elimination of sales opportunities for us or our competitors, depending upon who had the business initially. consolidations also could result in delays in purchasing decisions by the merged businesses. the purchasing decisions of the merged companies could have a material adverse effect on our business.   mergers among the supplier base also have increased. larger combined companies with pooled capital resources may be able to provide solution alternatives with which we would be put at a disadvantage to compete. the larger breadth of product offerings by these consolidated suppliers could result in customers electing to trim their supplier base for the advantages of one-stop shopping solutions for all of their product needs. consolidation of the supplier base could have a material adverse effect on our business.   our business is highly concentrated in the cable television portion of the telecommunications industry which is significantly impacted by technological change.   the cable television industry has gone through dramatic technological change resulting in msos rapidly migrating their business from a one-way television service to a two-way communications network enabling multiple services, such as high speed internet access, residential telephony services, business telephony services and internet access, video on demand and advertising services. new services that are, or may be offered by msos and other service providers, such as home security, power monitoring and control, high definition television, 3-d television, and a host of other new home services also are based on and will be characterized by rapidly evolving technology. the development of increasing transmission speed, density and bandwidth for internet traffic has also enabled the provision of high quality, feature length video over the internet. this so called over-the-top ip video service enables content providers such as netflix, hulu, cbs and portals like google to provide video services on-demand, by-passing traditional video service providers. as these service providers enhance their quality and scalability, msos are moving to match them and provide even more competitive services over their existing networks, as well as over-the-top for delivery not only to televisions but to the computers, tablets, and telephones in order to remain competitive. our business is dependent on our ability to develop the products that enable current and new customers to exploit these rapid technological changes. we believe the growth of over-the-top video represents a shift in the traditional video delivery paradigm and we cannot predict the effect it will have on our business.   in addition, the cable industry has and will continue to demand a move toward open standards. the move toward open standards is expected to increase the number of msos that will offer new services. this trend is expected to increase the number of competitors and drive down the capital costs per subscriber deployed. these factors may adversely impact both our future revenues and margins.   our business comes primarily from a few key customers. the loss of one of these customers or a significant reduction in sales to one of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business.   our two largest customers (including their affiliates, as applicable) are comcast and time warner cable. for the year ended december 31, 2010, sales to comcast accounted for approximately 24.9% and sales to time warner cable accounted for approximately 16.0% of our total revenue. the loss of either of these customers, or one of our other large customers, or a significant reduction in the products or services provided to any of them would have a material adverse impact on our business. for each of these customers, we also are one of their largest suppliers. as a result, if from time-to-time customers elect to purchase products from our competitors in order to diversify their supplier base and to dual-source key products or to curtail purchasing due to budgetary or market conditions, such decisions could have material consequences to our business. in addition, because of the magnitude of our sales to these customers the terms and timing of our sales are heavily negotiated, and even minor changes can have a significant impact upon our business.   we may pursue acquisitions and investments that could adversely affect our business.   in the past, we have made acquisitions of and investments in businesses, products, and technologies to complement or expand our business. while we have no announced plans for additional acquisitions, future acquisitions are part of our strategic objectives and may occur. if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired businesses, products, or technologies with our existing business and products. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive 19 table of contents issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, and substantial goodwill. we will test the goodwill that is created by acquisitions, at least annually and will record an impairment charge if its value has declined. for instance, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a substantial impairment charge with respect to the goodwill that was created as part of our acquisition of c-cor.   we have substantial goodwill.   our financial statements reflect substantial goodwill, approximately $235.0 million as of december 31, 2010, that was recognized in connection with the acquisitions that we have made. we annually (and more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired) review the carrying amount of our goodwill in order to determine whether it has been impaired for accounting purposes. in general, if the fair value of the corresponding reporting unit’s goodwill is less that the carrying value of the goodwill, we record an impairment. the determination of fair value is dependent upon a number of factors, including assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates that are based on our current and long-term business plans. no goodwill impairment was recorded in 2009 or 2010. we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $128.9 million and $80.4 million related to the ats and mcs reporting units, respectively, during the fourth quarter of 2008. as the ongoing expected cash flows and carrying amounts of our remaining goodwill are assessed, changes in the economic conditions, changes to our business strategy, changes in operating performance or other indicators of impairment could cause us to realize additional impairment charges in the future. for additional information, see the discussion under critical accounting policies in item 7, management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.   we may have difficulty in forecasting our sales.   because a significant portion of the purchases by our customers are discretionary, accurately forecasting sales is difficult. in addition, in recent years our customers have submitted their purchase orders less evenly over the course of each quarter and year and with shorter lead times than they have historically. this has made it even more difficult for us to forecast sales and other financial measures, which can result in us maintaining inventory levels that are too high or too low for our ultimate needs.   fluctuations in our media & communications systems sales result in greater volatility in our operating results.   the level of our media & communications systems sales fluctuates significantly quarter to quarter which results in greater volatility of our operating results than has been typical in the past, when the main source of volatility was the high proportion of quick-turn product sales. the timing of revenue recognition on software and system sales is based on specific contract terms and, in certain cases, is dependent upon completion of certain activities and customer acceptance which are difficult to forecast accurately. because the gross margins associated with software and systems sales are substantially higher than our average gross margins, fluctuations in quarterly software sales have a disproportionate effect on operating results and earnings per share and could result in our operating results falling short of the expectations of the investment community.   products currently under development may fail to realize anticipated benefits.   rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and relatively short product life cycles characterize the markets for our products. the technology applications that we currently are developing may not ultimately be successful. even if the products in development are successfully brought to market, they may not be widely used or we may not be able to successfully capitalize on their technology. to compete successfully, we must quickly design, develop, manufacture and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability. however, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce these products if they:     •  are not cost-effective;     •  are not brought to market in a timely manner; 20 table of contents     •  fail to achieve market acceptance; or     •  fail to meet industry certification standards.   furthermore, our competitors may develop similar or alternative technologies that, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on us. our strategic alliances are based on business relationships that have not been the subject of written agreements expressly providing for the alliance to continue for a significant period of time. the loss of a strategic relationship could have a material adverse effect on the progress of new products under development with that third party.   our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all facets of our operations.   competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel, which could impact our ability to maintain and grow our operations. our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our management to operate effectively. in the past, competitors and others have attempted to recruit our employees and in the future, their attempts may continue. the loss of services of any key personnel, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and other technical professionals, could negatively affect our business.   we are substantially dependent on contract manufacturers, and an inability to obtain adequate and timely delivery of supplies could adversely affect our business.   many components, subassemblies and modules necessary for the manufacture or integration of our products are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. our reliance on sole or limited suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our reliance on subcontractors involves several risks including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, subassemblies or modules and reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery of components, subassemblies or modules. historically, we have not maintained long-term agreements with any of our suppliers or subcontractors. an inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply could affect our ability to ship products on a timely basis. any inability to reliably ship our products on time could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business.   our international operations may be adversely affected by any decline in the demand for broadband systems designs and equipment in international markets.   sales of broadband communications equipment into international markets are an important part of our business. our products are marketed and made available to existing and new potential international customers. in addition, united states broadband system designs and equipment are increasingly being employed in international markets, where market penetration is relatively lower than in the united states. while international operations are expected to comprise an integral part of our future business, international markets may no longer continue to develop at the current rate, or at all. we may fail to receive additional contracts to supply equipment in these markets.   our international operations may be adversely affected by changes in the foreign laws in the countries in which we and our manufacturers and assemblers have plants.   a significant portion of our products are manufactured or assembled in china, ireland, mexico, and other countries outside of the united states. the governments of the foreign countries in which our products are manufactured may pass laws that impair our operations, such as laws that impose exorbitant tax obligations or nationalize these manufacturing facilities.   in addition, we own a manufacturing facility located in tijuana, mexico. this operation is exposed to certain risks as a result of its location, including:     •  changes in international trade laws, such as the north american free trade agreement and prosec, affecting our import and export activities; 21 table of contents     •  changes in, or expiration of, the mexican government’s immex (manufacturing industry maquiladora and export services) program, which provides economic benefits to us;     •  changes in labor laws and regulations affecting our ability to hire and retain employees;     •  fluctuations of foreign currency and exchange controls;     •  potential political instability and changes in the mexican government;     •  potential regulatory changes; and     •  general economic conditions in mexico.   any of these risks could interfere with the operation of this facility and result in reduced production, increased costs, or both. in the event that production capacity of this facility is reduced, we could fail to ship products on schedule and could face a reduction in future orders from dissatisfied customers. if our costs to operate this facility increase, our margins would decrease. reduced shipments and margins would have an adverse effect on our financial results.   we face risks relating to currency fluctuations and currency exchange.   on an ongoing basis we are exposed to various changes in foreign currency rates because significant sales are denominated in foreign currencies. these risk factors can impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. we manage these risks through regular operating and financing activities and periodically use derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward and option contracts. there can be no assurance that our risk management strategies will be effective.   we also may encounter difficulties in converting our earnings from international operations to u.s. dollars for use in the united states. these obstacles may include problems moving funds out of the countries in which the funds were earned and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries where the usual accounts receivable payment cycle is longer.   we depend on channel partners to sell our products in certain regions and are subject to risks associated with these arrangements.   we utilize distributors, value-added resellers, system integrators, and manufacturers’ representatives to sell our products to certain customers and in certain geographic regions to improve our access to these customers and regions and to lower our overall cost of sales and post-sales support. our sales through channel partners are subject to a number of risks, including:     •  ability of our selected channel partners to effectively sell our products to end customers;     •  our ability to continue channel partner arrangements into the future since most are for a limited term and subject to mutual agreement to extend;     •  a reduction in gross margins realized on sale of our products; and     •  a diminution of contact with end customers which, over time, could adversely impact our ability to develop new products that meet customers’ evolving requirements.   our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile.   our common stock is currently traded on the nasdaq global select market. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. our stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors including:     •  future announcements concerning us, key customers or competitors;     •  quarterly variations in operating results;     •  changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; 22 table of contents     •  developments with respect to technology or litigation;     •  the operating and stock price performance of our competitors; and     •  acquisitions and financings   fluctuations in the stock market, generally, also impact the volatility of our stock price. general stock market movements may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.   we may face higher costs associated with protecting our intellectual property or obtaining access necessary to intellectual property of others.   our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology, product development, technological expertise and distribution channels. we cannot predict whether we can protect our technology or whether competitors can develop similar technology independently. we have received, directly or indirectly, and may continue to receive from third parties, including some of our competitors, notices claiming that we, or our customers using our products, have infringed upon third-party patents or other proprietary rights. we are a defendant in proceedings (and other proceedings have been threatened) in which our customers were sued for patent infringement and sued, or made claims against, us and other suppliers for indemnification, and we may become involved in similar litigation involving these and other customers in the future. these claims, regardless of their merit, result in costly litigation, divert the time, attention and resources of our management, delay our product shipments, and, in some cases, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. if a claim of product infringement against us is successful and we fail to obtain a license or develop non-infringing technology, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, the payment of any damages or any necessary licensing fees or indemnification costs associated with a patent infringement claim could be material and could also materially adversely affect our operating results. see part i, item 3, “legal proceedings”.   we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future.   although from time to time we may consider repurchasing shares of our common stock, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. in addition, the payment of dividends in certain circumstances may be prohibited by the terms of our current and future indebtedness.   we have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company.   we have a shareholder rights plan (commonly known as a “poison pill”). this plan is not intended to prevent a takeover, but is intended to protect and maximize the value of stockholders’ interests. however, the plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or may delay that process.   we have the ability to issue preferred shares without stockholder approval.   our common shares may be subordinate to classes of preferred shares issued in the future in the payment of dividends and other distributions made with respect to common shares, including distributions upon liquidation or dissolution. our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue preferred shares without first obtaining stockholder approval. if we issued preferred shares, these additional securities may have dividend or liquidation preferences senior to the common shares. if we issue convertible preferred shares, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders’ interest.   item 1b.   unresolved