item 1a. risk factors   you should carefully read the following risk factors in connection with evaluating us and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business or our consolidated operating results, financial condition and cash flows, which, in turn, could cause the price of our common stock to decline. the risk factors described below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only risks we face. factors we currently do not know, factors that we currently consider immaterial or factors that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions, may also materially adversely affect our business or our consolidated operating results, financial condition or cash flows. the risk factors described below qualify all forward-looking statements we make, including forward-looking statements within this section entitled “risk factors.”   risk factors that may affect the demand for our services   economic downturns and slow recoveries could result in less demand from clients or otherwise negatively affect our clients, either of which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   demand for staffing services is sensitive to changes in economic activity. as economic activity slows, hospitals and other healthcare entities typically experience decreased attrition and reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees, which results in decreased demand for our services. in times of economic downturn and high unemployment rates, permanent full time and part time healthcare facility staff are generally inclined to work more hours and overtime, resulting in fewer available vacancies and less demand for our services. fewer placement opportunities for our temporary healthcare professionals also impair our ability to recruit and place both temporary and permanent placement healthcare professionals.   many healthcare facilities utilize temporary healthcare professionals to accommodate an increase in hospital admissions. alternatively, when hospital admissions decrease, due to reduced consumer spending affecting elective surgery volume, general unemployment causing an increase in under- and uninsured patients and other factors, the demand for our temporary healthcare professionals typically declines. this may have an even greater negative impact on demand for physicians in certain specialties such as surgery, radiology and anesthesiology. in addition, we may experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of patient occupancy and hospital admission downturns, negatively affecting our revenue and profitability.   10 table of contents over the past several years, general worldwide economic conditions resulted in limited availability of and access to credit, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending and higher unemployment. these conditions make it difficult for our clients and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. furthermore, during challenging economic times, our clients, in particular our clients reliant on state government funding, may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make payments to us, timely or otherwise, for services rendered. if that were to occur, we may increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively affected. if the economy or markets in which we operate deteriorate, we may record additional charges related to restructuring costs and the impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected.   our business depends upon our ability to secure and fill new profitable orders and searches from our clients because we generally do not have long-term, exclusive or guaranteed contracts.   we increasingly provide managed services programs for clinical staff with our hospital clients. outside of our managed service program offering, we generally do not have long-term, exclusive or guaranteed order contracts for temporary healthcare staffing with our clients. our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients are generally free to award contracts, place orders and new searches with our competitors. therefore, we must maintain positive relationships with these clients to continually secure new profitable searches and orders from them and then fill those needs.   some hospitals and healthcare facility clients choose to utilize vendor management service technology companies or staffing associations owned by member healthcare facilities that may act as intermediaries with firms such as us. we expect competition for managed services programs to intensify with many new entrants appearing. the success of such competitors may negatively affect both our managed services and our traditional staffing services sales opportunities. in addition, we provide services to some of our government clients through businesses such as small businesses or minority-owned contractors who have received set-aside awards. these various intermediary organizations may negatively affect our ability to obtain new clients and maintain our existing client relationships by impeding our ability to access and contract directly with clients and may also negatively affect the profitability of these client relationships.   consolidation and concentration in buyers of healthcare staffing services could negatively affect pricing of our services and our ability to mitigate credit risk.   we extend credit and payment terms to our customers. in addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our clients’ financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our credit risk by managing client concentration. we have seen an increase in staffing customers’ use of intermediaries such as vendor management service companies and group purchasing organizations, which may provide these organizations enhanced bargaining power. similarly, our own success in winning managed services contracts means some larger health systems have grown and may continue to grow substantially relative to our other revenue sources. we have also seen some recent consolidation of healthcare systems. to the extent that these trends exist and continue, it could lead to a greater concentration of buyers of healthcare staffing services and less diversification of our customer base, which could negatively affect pricing for our services and our ability to mitigate credit risk.   demand for our services may be adversely affected by the adoption of alternative modes of healthcare delivery, which may negatively affect our revenues, results of operations and cash flows.   the settings for the delivery of patient services continually evolve and implicate alternative modes of healthcare delivery, such as home based care. government mandates and the public’s adoption and demand for such new modes of healthcare delivery may negatively affect our clients’ demand for our services, which, in turn, could negatively affect our revenues, results of operations and cash flows.   11 table of contents if we are unable to quickly respond to changing marketplace conditions and customer needs, our business operations may suffer.   our success depends upon our ability to quickly adapt to changing marketplace conditions and customer needs. the success of new service lines and business models will depend on many factors, including our ability to properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs, quickly come into compliance with new federal or state regulations, and differentiate our services and abilities from those of our competitors. moreover, our competition may respond more quickly to new or emerging client needs and marketplace conditions. the development of these service lines and business models requires close attention to emerging trends and proposed federal and state legislation related to the healthcare service industry. if we are unable to anticipate changing marketplace conditions, adapt our current business model to adequately meet changing conditions in the healthcare service industry and develop and successfully implement innovative services, we may not remain competitive.   the ability of our clients to retain and increase the productivity of their permanent staff may affect the demand for our services, which could negatively affect our revenues, results of operation and cash flows.   if our clients retain and increase the productivity of their permanent clinical staff, their need for our recruitment and placement services for temporary positions may decline. higher permanent staff retention rates and increased productivity of permanent staff members could result in increased efficiencies, thereby reducing the demand for both our recruitment and placement services for temporary positions, which could negatively affect our revenues, results of operation and cash flows.   regulatory and legal risk factors   we are subject to federal and state healthcare industry regulation including professional licensure, conduct of operations, and costs and payment for services and payment for referrals as well as laws regarding employment practices and government contracting.   the healthcare industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state laws and regulations related to professional licensure, conduct of operations, costs and payment for services and payment for referrals. we provide workforce solutions and services on a contract basis to our clients, who typically pay us directly. accordingly, medicare, medicaid and managed care reimbursement policy changes generally do not directly impact us. nevertheless, reimbursement changes in government programs, particularly medicare and medicaid, can and do indirectly affect the demand and the prices paid for our services. for example, our clients could receive reduced or no reimbursements because of a change in the rates or conditions set by federal or state governments, which would negatively affect the demand and the prices for our services. in addition, our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients could suffer civil and criminal penalties, and be excluded from participating in medicare, medicaid and other healthcare programs for failure to comply with the laws and regulations, which may negatively affect our profitability.   a significant portion of our hospital and healthcare facility clients are state and federal government agencies, where our ability to compete for new contracts and orders, and the profitability of these contracts and orders, may be affected by government legislation, regulation or policy. additionally, in providing services to state and federal government clients and to clients who participate in state and federal programs, we are also subject to specific laws and regulations, which government agencies have broad latitude to enforce. we could suffer civil and criminal penalties or be excluded from participating in medicare, medicaid and other healthcare programs for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. if we were to be excluded from participation in these programs, it would likely materially adversely affect our business and our consolidated operating results, financial condition and cash flows. additionally, any regulatory or policy changes or modification of application of existing regulations could adversely affect our ability to contract with these government agencies or the costs of operations of serving these clients, and, as a result, negatively affect our revenues and profitability.   12 table of contents the success of our business depends on our ability to quickly and efficiently qualify healthcare professionals in the various jurisdictions and settings in which we operate, where we are subject to extensive state regulation of healthcare professional licensure and conduct of operations. the costs and requirements to comply with these regulations may impact the revenues and profitability of our business.   we are also subject to certain laws and regulations applicable to recruitment and placement agencies. like all employers, we must also comply with various laws and regulations relating to employment and pay practices. there is a risk that we could be subject to payment of additional wages, insurance and employment and payroll related taxes if certain of our corporate employees classified as exempt from overtime and minimum wage requirements are re-classified as non-exempt from overtime and minimum wage requirements. because of the nature of our business, the impact of these laws and regulations may have a more pronounced effect on our business. these laws and regulations may also impede our ability to grow our operations.   legislation regarding the current delivery and third party payor system for healthcare may have significant and unforeseeable affects on our business.   in 2010, congress passed the ppaca, providing for extensive healthcare reform. the ppaca is currently subject to legal challenges. subject to the outcome of these legal challenges, many of its reforms are scheduled to be phased in over a number of years. many questions remain concerning the impact of ppaca, including to what extent it will cause the federal or one or more state governments to assume a larger role in the healthcare system, expand healthcare coverage of americans, and/or impose new and potentially significant restrictions on reimbursement. given the legal challenges and open questions, we cannot predict the effect of healthcare reform legislation on our clients or the direct or indirect effect on us. the implementation of such healthcare reforms in their current form would affect our clients and we believe certain aspects of our business, including through (1) changes to provider reimbursement methods and payment rates, which, in turn, could negatively affect demand for and pricing of our services; (2) the manner in which we contract with physicians and other healthcare professionals or with hospitals or other healthcare clients; (3) the imposition of additional medical, administrative, technology or other costs on us or our clients; and (4) the regulation of the collection, use, disclosure, maintenance and disposal of individually identifiable health information. these changes could have the long-term effect of reducing our revenues, increasing our costs, or requiring us to revise the way in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business. in addition, our results of operations, our financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by such changes.   the challenge to the classification of certain of our healthcare professionals as independent contractors could adversely affect our profitability.   although it is general industry standard to treat certain healthcare professionals, such as physicians, as independent contractors, federal or state taxing authorities may take the position that such professionals are employees exposing us to additional wage and insurance claims, and employment and payroll-related taxes. the state of california taxing authorities have taken the position that our healthcare professionals, including physicians, are employees and as such subject to payroll-related taxes. we are contesting the state of california’s position, as further described under “item 8. financial statements and supplementary data—notes to consolidated financial statements—note 12(a), commitments and contingencies—legal.” a reclassification of our locum tenens to employees from independent contractors could result in liability that would have a significant negative impact on the profitability of the period in which assessed, and would require changes to our payroll and related business processes, which could be costly. in addition, many states have laws that prohibit non-physician owned companies from employing physicians, referred to as the “corporate practice of medicine.” if our independent contractor physicians were classified as employees in states that prohibit the corporate practice of medicine, we may be prohibited from conducting our locum tenens business in those states under our current business model, which may have a substantial negative effect on our revenues, results of operations and profitability.   13 table of contents medical malpractice and other claims asserted against us could subject us to substantial liabilities.   our clients and healthcare professionals are subject to legal actions alleging malpractice or related legal theories. because we recruit and assist in credentialing of these healthcare professionals, and, in certain cases, employ these healthcare providers, claims are also brought against us relating to the recruitment and qualification of these healthcare professionals and the quality of medical care provided by our healthcare professionals while on assignment or after placement with our clients. at times, plaintiffs name us in these lawsuits regardless of our contractual obligations, the competency of the healthcare professional, the standard of care provided by the healthcare professional or the quality of service that we provided. in certain instances, we are contractually required to indemnify our clients against some or all of these potential legal actions. additionally, we may be subject to various employment claims from our corporate employees and healthcare professionals. we are subject to possible claims alleging discrimination, sexual harassment and other similar activities in which we or our hospital and healthcare facility clients and their agents have allegedly engaged.   we maintain various types of insurance coverage, including professional liability and employment practices, through insurance carriers, and/or we self-insure for these claims through accruals for retention reserves. however, the cost of defending such claims, even if groundless, could be substantial and the associated negative publicity could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and place qualified employees and healthcare professionals in the future. we may also experience increased insurance costs and reserve accruals and may not be able to pass on all or any portion of increased insurance costs to our clients, thereby reducing our profitability. additionally, our insurance coverage and reserve accruals may not be sufficient to cover all claims against us.   risk factors related to our operations, personnel and information systems   our inability to leverage our cost structure may adversely affect our profitability.   we have technology, operations and human capital infrastructures to support our existing business. we must continue to invest in these infrastructures to support our growth, and if we are unable to do so, it may impede our growth. additionally, if our business does not perform as expected, our inability to reduce these infrastructure costs, many of which are fixed costs, in a timely manner, or at all, would impair our results of operations and profitability. additionally, if we cannot leverage our infrastructure effectively, it may negatively affect our earnings growth rate.   difficulties in maintaining our management information and communications systems, or disruptions to our client and provider-facing self-service websites, may negatively affect our business operations.   our ability to deliver services to our clients and to manage our internal systems depends largely upon our access to and the performance of our management information and communications systems, including our client and provider-facing self-service websites. these systems also maintain accounting and financial information, upon which we depend to fulfill our financial reporting obligations. although we have risk mitigation measures, these systems, and our access to these systems, are not impervious to floods, fire, storms, or other natural disasters or service interruptions. if our systems do not adequately support our operations, are damaged or disrupted or if we are required to incur significant additional costs to repair, maintain or expand them, it may adversely affect our business operations, which, in turn, may affect our profitability.   if we do not continue to recruit and retain sufficient quality healthcare professionals at reasonable costs, it could increase our operating costs and negatively affect our business and our profitability.   we rely significantly on our ability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of healthcare professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our clients. we compete with healthcare staffing companies, recruitment and placement agencies and with hospitals, healthcare facilities and physician practice groups to attract healthcare professionals based on the quantity, diversity and quality of   14 table of contents assignments offered, compensation packages and the benefits that we provide to our healthcare professionals. we rely on our human capital intensive, relationship-oriented approach and national infrastructure to enable us to compete in all aspects of our business, but particularly in the permanent physician staffing business. we must continually evaluate and expand our temporary and permanent healthcare professional network to serve the needs of our clients.   currently, there is a shortage of certain qualified doctors, nurses and allied healthcare professionals in the united states. high general unemployment levels may reduce the number of healthcare professionals willing to take on temporary assignments as opposed to permanent positions, a tendency which may continue and lag a general economic recovery. we may be unable to continue to maintain or increase the number of temporary and permanent healthcare professionals that we recruit, decreasing the potential for growth of our business. our ability to recruit and retain temporary and permanent healthcare professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide our healthcare professionals with assignments and placements that they view as attractive and to provide our temporary healthcare professionals with competitive compensation packages and fees. the costs of attracting healthcare professionals and providing them with attractive compensation packages may be higher than we anticipate, or we may be unable to pass these costs on to our hospital and healthcare facility clients, which may reduce our profitability. moreover, if we are unable to recruit temporary and permanent healthcare professionals, our service execution may deteriorate and, as a result, we could lose clients.   the inability to properly screen and match quality healthcare professionals with suitable placements may negatively affect demand for our services.   our success depends on the quality of our healthcare professionals. a quality or licensure issue could adversely affect our business, client demand for our services, and potential for growth for us and our sector. an inability to properly screen, match, and monitor healthcare professionals for acceptable credentials, experience, and performance may cause clients to lose confidence in our services, which may damage our reputation and result in clients opting to utilize competitors’ services or rely on their own internal resources. our ability to ensure the quality of our healthcare professionals relies heavily on the effectiveness of our data and communication systems as well as properly trained and competent operational employees that screen and match healthcare professionals in suitable placements.   our operations may deteriorate if we are unable to continue to attract, develop and retain our sales and operations personnel.   our success is dependent upon the performance of our sales and operations personnel. the number of individuals who meet our qualifications for these positions is limited, and we may experience difficulty in attracting qualified candidates. in addition, we commit substantial resources to the training, development and support of our personnel. competition for qualified sales personnel in the line of business in which we operate is strong, and we may not be able to retain some of our sales personnel after we have expended the time and expense to recruit and train them.   the loss of key officers and management personnel could adversely affect our business and operating results.   we believe that the success of our business strategy and our ability to maintain our recent levels of profitability depends on the continued employment of our senior management team. we have an employment agreement with susan r. salka, our president and chief executive officer, through may 4, 2013, which is renewable on an annual basis. other senior members of the team are employees at will with standard severance agreements. if members of our senior management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.   15 table of contents our inability to maintain the positive brand identities that we have developed and acquired may adversely affect our results of operations.   we have invested substantial amounts in acquiring, developing and maintaining our brands, and our success depends substantially on our ability to maintain positive brand identities for existing services and effectively building up brand image for new services. we cannot assure that additional expenditures and our continuing commitment to marketing and improving our brands will have the desired effect on our brands’ value, which may adversely affect our results of operations.   we maintain a substantial amount of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles on our balance sheet that may decrease our earnings or increase our losses if we recognize an impairment to goodwill or indefinite lived intangibles.   we maintain goodwill on our balance sheet, which represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets and indefinite lived intangibles we acquired. we evaluate goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles for impairment annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. if we identify an impairment, we record a charge to earnings. an impairment charge to goodwill or indefinite lived intangibles would decrease our earnings or increase our losses, as the case may be, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock.   risk factors related to our indebtedness and other liabilities   we have substantial accruals for self-insured retentions and uncertain income tax liability on our balance sheet, and any significant adverse adjustments in these accruals may decrease our earnings or increase our losses and negatively impact our cash flow.   we maintain accruals for self-insured retentions for professional liability, health insurance, workers compensation and other employment practices related matters on our balance sheet. a significant increase to these self-insured retention accruals may decrease our earnings. we determine the adequacy of our self-insured retention accruals by evaluating our historical experience and trends, related to both insurance claims and payments, information provided to us by our insurance brokers, attorneys, third party administrators, and actuarial firms, as well as industry experience and trends. if such information collectively indicates that our accruals are overstated or understated, we reduce or provide for additional accruals, as appropriate.   in addition, we maintain uncertain income tax liability related to certain income tax positions that we have taken. as of december 31, 2011, the uncertain income tax liability including interest and penalties was $23.9 million. increases to the accrual may decrease our earnings and cash flow may be negatively impacted if there are payments associated with these reserves.   our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our future financial condition.   we are party to two credit agreements, which contain various financial covenants, restrict the payment of dividends, and limit the amount of repurchases of our common stock. as of december 31, 2011, our term loans outstanding, including the current portion, equaled $202.3 million.   our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition by, among other things:     •   increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or to increases in interest rates, particularly with respect to the portion of our outstanding debt that is subject to variable interest rates;     •   potentially limiting our ability to obtain additional financing or to obtain such financing on favorable terms;   16 table of contents   •   causing us to dedicate a portion of future cash flow from operations to service or pay down our debt, which reduces the cash available for other purposes, such as operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; and     •   possibly limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be less leveraged.   our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. additionally, if we are not in compliance with the covenants in our credit agreements, we would be in default, and the lenders could call the debt, which would have a material adverse affect on our business.   item 1b. unresolved