item 1a. risk factors   the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating us and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our company, operating results, financial condition, stock price, and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this annual report on form 10-k. certain statements in “risk factors” constitute “forward-looking statements.” our actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors and uncertainties set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. see “item 7. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—special note regarding forward-looking statements.”   a continued significant economic downturn and slow recovery could result in less demand from clients or otherwise negatively affect our clients, either of which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.   demand for staffing services is sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity. as economic activity slowed down, hospitals and other healthcare entities experienced decreased attrition and reduced their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees and increasingly relied on internal staff retention and recruitment efforts, resulting in decreased demand for our healthcare professionals. in times of economic downturn and high unemployment rates, permanent full time and part time healthcare facility staff were generally inclined to work more hours and overtime, resulting in fewer available vacancies and less demand for our services. fewer placement opportunities for our temporary healthcare professionals has impaired our ability to recruit and place both temporary and permanent placement healthcare professionals, and the continuing effect of the recession and the slow pace of recovery may continue to depress our revenues and profitability.   many healthcare facilities will utilize temporary healthcare professionals to accommodate an increase in hospital admissions. alternatively, when hospital admissions decrease, due to reduced consumer spending affecting elective surgery volume, general unemployment causing an increase in under- and uninsured patients and other factors, as we have seen in the recession, the demand for our temporary healthcare professionals may decline. this may have an even greater negative impact on demand for physicians in certain specialties such as surgery and anesthesiology. in addition, we may experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of patient occupancy and hospital admission downturns, negatively impacting our revenue and profitability. additionally, a continued economic downturn could result in higher unemployment claims. as a result, the significant economic downturn and slow recovery could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   over the past three years, general worldwide economic conditions resulted in a situation where there was limited availability and access to credit and capital markets, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending and higher unemployment. while indications are that our business has stabilized, it is unclear when the demand environment will return to normalized levels. these conditions make it difficult for our clients and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. furthermore, during challenging economic times, our clients, in particular our clients reliant on state government funding, may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make payments to us, timely or otherwise, for services rendered. if that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively   12 table of contents impacted. we cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery. if the economy or markets in which we operate continue to remain depressed or deteriorate further, we may record additional charges related to restructuring costs and the impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected.   if we are unable to continue to recruit and retain healthcare professionals for our healthcare staffing business at reasonable costs, it could increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business.   we rely significantly on our ability to recruit and retain healthcare professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our hospital, healthcare facility clients and physician practice groups. we compete for healthcare staffing personnel with other temporary healthcare staffing companies and with hospitals, healthcare facilities and physician practice groups based on the quantity, diversity and quality of assignments offered, compensation packages and the benefits that we provide to our healthcare professionals. we rely on our human capital intensive, relationship-oriented approach and national infrastructure to enable us to compete in all aspects of our business, but particularly in the permanent physician staffing business. we must continually evaluate and expand our temporary and permanent healthcare professional network to serve the needs of our hospital, physician practice groups and other clients.   currently, there is a shortage of qualified doctors, nurses and certain allied healthcare professionals in the united states. high general unemployment levels may reduce the number of healthcare professionals willing to take on temporary assignments as opposed to permanent positions, a tendency which may continue and lag a general economic recovery. we may be unable to continue to maintain or increase the number of temporary and permanent healthcare professionals that we recruit, decreasing the potential for growth of our business. our ability to recruit and retain temporary and permanent healthcare professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide our healthcare professionals with assignments and placements that they view as attractive and to provide our temporary healthcare professionals with competitive compensation packages and fees. the costs of attracting healthcare professionals and providing them with attractive compensation packages may be higher than we anticipate, or we may be unable to pass these costs on to our hospital and healthcare facility clients. if we are unable to charge rates to our hospital and healthcare facility clients to cover these costs, our profitability could decline. moreover, if we are unable to recruit temporary and permanent healthcare professionals, our service execution may deteriorate and, as a result, we could lose clients.   our operations may deteriorate if we are unable to continue to attract, develop and retain our sales and operations personnel.   our success is dependent upon the performance of our sales and operations personnel. the number of individuals who meet our qualifications for these positions is limited, and we may experience difficulty in attracting qualified candidates. in addition, we commit substantial resources to the training, development and support of our personnel. competition for qualified sales personnel in the line of business in which we operate is strong, and there is a risk that we may not be able to retain our sales personnel after we have expended the time and expense to recruit and train them.   our business depends upon our ability to secure and fill new profitable orders and searches from our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients because we generally do not have long-term, exclusive or guaranteed contracts.   we increasingly provide clinical staffing managed services programs and have preferred staffing relationships with our hospital clients, especially in our nursing business, under which we manage their clinical interim staffing needs. nevertheless, outside of our managed service program offering, we generally do not have long-term, exclusive or guaranteed order contracts for temporary healthcare staffing with our clients. our   13 table of contents hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients are generally free to award contracts, place orders and new searches with our competitors. therefore, we must maintain positive relationships with these clients to continually secure new profitable searches and orders from them and then fill those needs.   some hospitals and healthcare facility clients choose to utilize vendor management service companies or staffing associations owned by member healthcare facilities that may act as intermediaries with staffing firms such as us. while we are currently the largest provider of managed services programs in our industry, competition is expected to intensify with many new entrants appearing. the success of such competitors may impact both our managed services and our traditional staffing services sales opportunities. in addition, we provide services to some of our government clients through businesses such as small businesses or minority-owned contractors who have received set-aside awards. these various intermediary organizations may impact our ability to obtain new clients and maintain our existing client relationships by impeding our ability to access and contract directly with healthcare facility clients, as well as impact the profitability of these client relationships.   consolidation and concentration in buyers of healthcare staffing services could impact demand and pricing of our services, in addition to our ability to mitigate credit risk.   we extend credit and payment terms to our customers. in addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our clients’ financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our credit risk by managing client concentration. we have seen an increase in staffing customers’ use of intermediaries such as vendor management service companies and group purchasing organizations, which may provide these organizations enhanced bargaining power. similarly, our own success in winning managed services contracts means some larger health systems have grown and may continue to grow substantially relative to our other revenue sources. we have also seen some recent consolidation of healthcare systems. to the extent that these trends exist and continue, it could lead to a greater concentration of buyers of healthcare staffing services and less diversification of our customer base which could impact demand and pricing for our services, as well as our ability to mitigate credit risk.   the demand for our services, and therefore the profitability of our business, may be adversely affected by changes in staffing needs due to the adoption of alternative modes of healthcare delivery, staffing preferences of our healthcare facility clients and fluctuations in hospital admissions.   the settings for the delivery of patient services are continually evolving and implicate alternative modes of healthcare delivery, such as home based care. demand for our services is affected by government mandates and the public’s adoption and demand for such new modes of healthcare delivery, by our clients’ evolving needs in light of that demand, and by our ability to adapt to fill those needs. demand for our services is also affected by the staffing needs and preferences of our healthcare facility clients, as well as by fluctuations in patient occupancy at our client healthcare facilities due to economic factors and seasonal fluctuations that are beyond our control. historically, hospitals in certain geographical regions have experienced significant seasonal fluctuations in admissions, and needed to be able to adjust their staffing levels to accommodate the change in patient census; however, seasonal fluctuations have diminished in recent years, negatively impacting demand for our seasonal staffing services.   the ability of our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients to retain and increase the productivity of their permanent staff may affect the demand for our services.   if our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients retain and increase the productivity of their permanent staff, their need for our services may decline. higher permanent staff retention rates and increased productivity of permanent staff members could result in increased efficiencies, thereby reducing the demand for both our temporary staffing and permanent placement services, which could negatively impact our revenue and profitability.   14 table of contents we are subject to federal and state healthcare industry regulation including professional licensure, conduct of operations, and costs and payment for services and payment for referrals, as well as laws regarding employment practices, government contracting and immigration.   the healthcare industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state laws and regulations related to professional licensure, conduct of operations, costs and payment for services and payment for referrals.   we provide staffing, workforce management and recruitment services on a contract basis to our clients, and with the exception of our home healthcare services business, are paid directly by our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients. as a result, other than in our home healthcare services business, we are not directly impacted by medicare, medicaid and managed care reimbursement policy changes. nevertheless, reimbursement changes in government programs, particularly medicare and medicaid, can and do indirectly affect the demand and the prices paid for our services. for example, our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients could receive reduced reimbursements or be excluded from coverage, because of a change in the rates or conditions set by federal or state governments, as we have experienced in the radiology specialties. in addition, our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients could suffer civil and criminal penalties, as could the company, as a government contractor, and be excluded from participating in medicare, medicaid and other healthcare programs for failure to comply with the laws and regulations. such changes in federal reimbursement program laws and regulations, or the exclusion of our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients from such programs could adversely affect our clients which in turn could also adversely affect the prices and demand for our services. a significant portion of our hospital and healthcare facility clients are state and federal government agencies, where our ability to compete for new contracts and orders, and the profitability of these contracts and orders, may be affected by government legislation, regulation or policy. additionally, in providing services to state and federal government clients, we are also subject to specific laws and regulations which government agencies have broad latitude to enforce. any regulatory or policy changes or modification of application of existing regulations could adversely affect our ability to contract with these government agencies or the costs of operations of serving these clients, and as a result impact revenues and profitability.   for our home healthcare services, we are paid directly by medicare, medicaid and other state-funded programs, and thus regulations which reduce utilization rates, increase eligibility criteria or reduce reimbursement rates may all negatively directly impact a portion of this segment’s revenue opportunities. in addition, unfavorable audit results may impact our ability to do business under certain government funded programs and/or within a certain area or region.   the success of our business depends on our ability to quickly and efficiently qualify healthcare professionals in the various jurisdictions and settings in which we operate, where we are subject to extensive state regulation of healthcare professional licensure and conduct of operations. the costs and requirements to comply with these regulations may impact the revenues and profitability of our business.   we are also subject to certain laws and regulations applicable to healthcare staffing agencies and general temporary staffing services. like all employers, we must also comply with various laws and regulations relating to pay practices, workers compensation and immigration. there is a risk that we could be subject to payment of additional wages, insurance and employment and payroll related taxes if certain of our corporate employees classified as exempt from overtime and minimum wage requirements are re-classified as non-exempt from overtime and minimum wage requirements. because of the nature of our business, the impact of these laws and regulations may have a more pronounced effect on our business. these laws and regulations may also impede our ability to grow our operations.   state legislation exists, such as legislation in massachusetts that limits the hourly rate paid to temporary nursing agencies for registered nurses, licensed practical nurses and certified nurses’ aides. while our service offerings are exempt, in part, from this massachusetts regulation, similar regulations may be enacted in other   15 table of contents states in which we operate, and as a result revenue and margins could decrease. furthermore, third party payers, such as federal and state government and health maintenance organizations, significantly impact the prices charged for medical care. failure by hospitals, healthcare facilities and physician practice groups to obtain full reimbursement from those third party payers could reduce the demand or the price paid for our services, or result in some client solvency issues or cessation of business.   legislation impacting the current delivery and third party payor system for healthcare may have significant and unforeseeable impacts on our business.   in 2010, congress passed the affordable care act, providing for extensive healthcare reform. the measure is being legally challenged. if sustained, many of its reforms are scheduled to be phased in over a number of years. many questions remain concerning the impact of this legislation, including to what extent it will cause the federal or one or more state governments to assume a larger role in the healthcare system, expand healthcare coverage of americans, and/or impose new and potentially significant restrictions on reimbursement. given the legal challenges and open questions, we cannot predict the impact of healthcare reform legislation on our clients or the direct or indirect impact on us. the implementation of such healthcare reforms in their current form would impact our clients and may affect certain aspects of our business, including through: changes to provider reimbursement methods and payment rates which could impact demand for and pricing of our services; the manner in which we contract with physicians and other healthcare professionals or with hospitals and/or other healthcare clients; the imposition of additional medical, administrative, technology or other costs on us and/or clients; and the regulation of the collection, use, disclosure, maintenance and disposal of individually identifiable health information. these changes could have the long-term impact of reducing our revenues, increasing our costs, or requiring us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business. in addition, our results of operations, our financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by such changes.   our profitability is impacted by our ability to leverage our cost structure.   we have technology, operations and human capital infrastructures to support our existing business and contemplated growth. in the event that our business does not perform as expected, our inability to reduce these costs would impair our profitability. additionally, if we are not able to capitalize on this infrastructure, our earnings growth rate will be negatively impacted.   we may not be able to successfully implement our strategic growth, acquisition and integration strategies.   an effective growth management strategy is necessary to organically grow our current operations, and if we do not successfully execute on this growth strategy, our profitability could decline. our acquisition and integration strategy involves significant risks and uncertainties, including appropriate valuation of target companies, continuing severe liquidity issues in the credit markets, the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, significant expenditures of cash and other resources and assumption of debt that may ultimately negatively impact our overall financial performance. in 2010, we completed the acquisition of nfi, which presents risks including: difficulties integrating acquired personnel and corporate cultures into our business, the potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired companies, the diversion of management attention from existing operations and significant expenditures of cash and other resources. if we are not able to fully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our own in an efficient and cost-effective manner, including implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies at the acquired business, and integration of each company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems, this would negatively impact our financial performance. moreover, we continue to explore strategic acquisition opportunities to supplement our organic growth strategy. however, the disruption in the global financial markets may impact our ability to obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms.   16 table of contents difficulties in maintaining our management information and communications systems, or disruptions to our client and provider-facing self-service websites, may negatively impact our business operations and as a result, our financial performance.   our ability to deliver our staffing services to our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients and manage our internal systems depends to a large extent upon our access to and the performance of our management information and communications systems, including our client and provider-facing self-service web sites. these systems also maintain accounting and financial information, which we depend upon to fulfill our financial reporting obligations. if these systems do not adequately support our operations, these systems are damaged or service is disrupted or if we are required to incur significant additional costs to repair, maintain or expand these systems, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. although we have risk mitigation measures, these systems, and our access to these systems, are not impervious to floods, fire, storms, or other natural disasters or service interruptions, and the loss of systems information could result in disruption to our business.   the challenge to the classification of certain of our healthcare professionals as independent contractors could adversely impact our profitability.   although it is general industry standard to treat certain healthcare professionals, such as physicians, as independent contractors, federal or state taxing authorities may take the position that such professionals are employees subjecting the company to additional wage and insurance claims, and employment and payroll-related taxes. the state of california taxing authorities have taken the position that our healthcare professionals, including physicians, are employees and as such subject to payroll-related taxes. the company is contesting the state of california’s position, as further described under “item 8. financial statements and supplementary data—notes to consolidated financial statements—note 11(a), commitments and contingencies—legal.” a reclassification of our locum tenens to employees from independent contractors could result in liability that would have a significant negative impact on the profitability of the period in which assessed, and would require changes to our payroll and related business processes, which could be costly. in addition, many states have laws which prohibit non-physician owned companies from employing physicians, referred to as the “corporate practice of medicine.” if our independent contractor physicians are classified as employees, we could be found in violation of state laws that prohibit the corporate practice of medicine, which would have a substantial negative impact on our profitability.   the impact of medical malpractice and other claims asserted against us could subject us to substantial liabilities.   our clients and healthcare professionals are subject to legal actions alleging malpractice or related legal theories. because we recruit and assist in credentialing of these healthcare professionals, and in certain cases, employ these healthcare providers, claims may also be brought against us relating to the recruitment and qualification of these healthcare professionals and the quality of medical care provided by our healthcare professionals while on assignment or after placement with our clients. we are at times named in these lawsuits regardless of our contractual obligations, the competency of the healthcare professional, the standard of care provided by the healthcare professional or the quality of service that we provided. in some instances, we are contractually required to indemnify hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients against some or all of these potential legal actions.   also, we may be subject to various employment claims from our corporate employees and healthcare professionals. we are subject to possible claims alleging discrimination, sexual harassment and other similar activities by us, as well as our hospital and healthcare facility clients and their agents. we maintain various types of insurance coverage, including professional liability, and employment practices, through insurance carriers, and/or we self-insure for these claims through accruals for retention reserves. however, the cost of defending   17 table of contents such claims, even if groundless, could be substantial and the associated negative publicity could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and place qualified employees and healthcare professionals in the future. we may also experience increased insurance costs and reserve accruals and may not be able to pass on all or any portion of increased insurance costs to our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients, thereby reducing our profitability. our insurance coverage and reserve accruals may not be sufficient to cover all claims against us, and we may be exposed to substantial liabilities.   if we are unable to execute our business strategy, our profitability, cash flow and, consequently, our compliance with debt covenants and our liquidity could be negatively impacted.   our success is dependent on our ability to execute our business strategy, which necessarily involves the successful operation of a number of integral components and business objectives. our ability to execute these business objectives is dependent upon a sufficient cash flow and capital structure to support the business. if general economic conditions or other factors result in our margins or cash flow being significantly impaired, our compliance with our debt covenants could be negatively impacted. our credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain maximum leverage ratios, minimum fixed charge coverage ratios and minimum liquidity ratio as further described under “item 8. financial statements and supplementary data—notes to consolidated financial statements—note 7, notes payable and credit agreement.” our ability to comply with these covenants will depend in part upon our reported financial results, which as indicated above are dependent on our ability to execute our business strategy. if we are not in compliance with such covenants, we would be in default under our credit facility, the lender could call the debt and we could be unable to secure further borrowing.   the loss of key officers and management personnel could adversely affect our ability to remain competitive.   we believe that the success of our business strategy and our ability to maintain our recent levels of profitability depends on the continued employment of our senior management team. we have an employment agreement with susan r. salka, our president and chief executive officer, through may 4, 2012, which is renewable on an annual basis. other senior members of the team are employees at will with standard severance agreements. if members of our senior management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.   we have valuable brand identities we have developed and acquired, and a substantial amount of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles on our balance sheet that may have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in the event that we are required to recognize an impairment to goodwill or indefinite lived intangibles.   we have invested substantial amounts in acquiring, developing and maintaining our brands, and our success depends on our ability to maintain our brand identities for existing services and effectively build up brand image for new services. we cannot assure that additional expenditures and our continuing commitment to marketing will have the desired impact on our brands’ value. we have goodwill on our balance sheet, which represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets and indefinite lived intangibles acquired. we evaluate goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles for impairment annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. in the event impairment is identified, a charge to earnings would be recorded. although an impairment charge to earnings for goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles would not affect our cash flow, it would decrease our earnings or increase our losses, as the case may be, and our stock price could be adversely affected. due to the decline in our market capitalization resulting in such market capitalization being below our book equity value during the third quarter of 2010, we performed interim impairment testing at our reporting unit level as of august 31, 2010, prior to the acquisition of nfi, and finalized the interim impairment testing during the fourth quarter of 2010. as a result, we recorded total impairment charges of $50.8 million, pretax, pursuant to the interim impairment testing for the year ended december 31,   18 table of contents 2010. in addition, we performed our annual impairment testing on the goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles as of october 31, 2010, our annual impairment testing date, and no additional impairment was identified. the impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. if the current economic conditions continue to deteriorate causing further decline in our stock price, additional impairments to one or more reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the annual impairment analysis. we will continue to monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles. see additional information in “critical accounting principles and estimates in part ii, item 7.”   we have a substantial accrual for self-insured retentions on our balance sheet, and any significant adverse adjustments in these accruals may have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses.   we maintain accruals for self-insured retentions for professional liability, health insurance, workers compensation and other employment practices related matters on our balance sheet. generally, increases to these accruals do not immediately affect our cash flow, but a significant increase to these self-insured retention accruals may decrease our earnings. we determine the adequacy of our self-insured retention accruals by evaluating our historical experience and trends, related to both insurance claims and payments, information provided to us by our insurance brokers, attorneys, third party administrators, and actuarial firms, as well as industry experience and trends. if such information collectively indicates that our accruals are overstated or understated, we reduce or provide for additional accruals, as appropriate.   item 1b. unresolved