item 1a. risk factors you should carefully read the following risk factors in connection with evaluating us and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business or our consolidated operating results, financial condition and cash flows, which, in turn, could cause the price of our common stock to decline. the risk factors described below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are not the only risks we face. factors we currently do not know, factors that we currently consider immaterial or factors that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions, may also materially adversely affect our business or our consolidated operating results, financial 8 table of contents  condition or cash flows. the risk factors described below qualify all forward-looking statements we make, including forward-looking statements within this section entitled “risk factors.”   risk factors that may affect the demand for our services   economic downturns and slow recoveries could result in less demand from clients or otherwise negatively affect our clients, either of which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   demand for staffing services is sensitive to changes in economic activity. as economic activity slows, hospitals and other healthcare entities typically experience decreased attrition and reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees, which results in decreased demand for our services. in times of economic downturn and high unemployment rates, permanent full time and part time healthcare facility staff are generally inclined to work more hours and overtime, resulting in fewer available vacancies and less demand for our services. fewer placement opportunities for our temporary clinicians and physicians also impair our ability to recruit and place them both on a temporary and permanent basis.   many healthcare facilities utilize temporary clinicians and physicians to accommodate an increase in hospital admissions. alternatively, when hospital admissions decrease, due to reduced consumer spending affecting elective surgery volume, general unemployment causing an increase in under- and uninsured patients and other factors, the demand for our temporary clinicians and physicians typically declines. this may have an even greater negative impact on demand for physicians in certain specialties such as surgery, radiology and anesthesiology. in addition, we may experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of decreased patient occupancy and hospital admissions, negatively affecting our revenue and profitability. during challenging economic times, our clients, in particular our clients that rely on state government funding, may face issues gaining access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make payments to us, timely or otherwise, for services rendered. if that were to occur, we may increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively affected. if the economy or markets in which we operate deteriorate, we may record additional charges related to restructuring costs and the impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected.   our business depends upon our ability to maintain our clients and secure new ones and to fill new and profitable orders and searches for our clients because we generally do not have long-term, exclusive or guaranteed contracts.   we increasingly provide managed services programs for clinical staff with our hospital clients that are generally multi-year, exclusive contracts. outside of our managed services program offering, we generally do not have long-term, exclusive or guaranteed order contracts for our recruitment and placement services with our clients. our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients are generally free to award contracts, place orders and new searches with our competitors. therefore, we must maintain positive relationships with these clients to continually secure new profitable searches and orders from them and then fill those needs.   some hospitals and healthcare facility clients choose to utilize vendor management service technology companies or staffing associations owned by member healthcare facilities that may act as intermediaries with firms such as us. the success of such competitors may negatively affect both our managed services and our traditional staffing services sales opportunities. in addition, we provide services to some of our government clients through businesses such as small businesses or minority-owned contractors who have received set-aside awards. these various intermediary organizations may negatively affect our ability to obtain new clients and maintain our existing client relationships by impeding our ability to access and contract directly with clients and may also negatively affect the profitability of these client relationships.   consolidation and concentration in buyers of healthcare staffing services could negatively affect pricing of our services and our ability to mitigate credit risk.   we extend credit and payment terms to our clients. in addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our clients’ financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our credit risk by managing client concentration. we have seen an increase in our clients’ use of intermediaries such as vendor management service companies and group purchasing organizations as well as consolidation of healthcare systems, which may provide these organizations enhanced bargaining power. at the same time, our own success in winning managed services contracts means some larger health systems have grown and may continue to grow substantially relative to our other revenue sources. these dynamics could lead to a greater concentration of buyers of healthcare staffing services and less diversification of our customer base, which could negatively affect pricing for our services and our ability to mitigate credit risk.   if we are unable to quickly respond to changing marketplace conditions, such as alternative modes of healthcare delivery, and clients needs, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. 9 table of contents    the settings for the delivery of patient services continually evolve and implicate alternative modes of healthcare delivery, such as telemedicine. government mandates, third-party reimbursements and the public’s adoption and demand for such new modes of healthcare delivery may negatively affect our clients’ demand for our services, which, in turn, could negatively affect our revenues, results of operations and cash flows.   our success depends upon our ability to quickly adapt to changing marketplace conditions and client needs. the success of new service lines and business models will depend on many factors, including our ability to properly anticipate and satisfy client needs, quickly come into compliance with new federal or state regulations, and differentiate our services and abilities from those of our competitors. moreover, our competition may respond more quickly to new or emerging client needs and marketplace conditions. the development of these service lines and business models requires close attention to emerging trends and proposed federal and state legislation related to the healthcare service industry. if we are unable to anticipate changing marketplace conditions, adapt our current business model to adequately meet changing conditions in the healthcare service industry and develop and successfully implement innovative services, we may not remain competitive.   the ability of our clients to retain and increase the productivity of their permanent staff may affect the demand for our services, which could negatively affect our revenues, results of operation and cash flows.   if our clients retain and increase the productivity of their permanent clinical staff, their need for our recruitment and placement services for temporary positions may decline. higher permanent staff retention rates and increased productivity of permanent staff members could result in increased efficiencies, thereby reducing the demand for both our recruitment and placement services for temporary positions, which could negatively affect our revenues, results of operation and cash flows.   regulatory and legal risk factors   we are subject to federal and state healthcare industry regulation including professional licensure, conduct of operations, and costs and payment for services and payment for referrals as well as laws regarding employment practices and government contracting.   the healthcare industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state laws and regulations related to professional licensure, conduct of operations, costs and payment for services and payment for referrals. we provide workforce solutions and services on a contract basis to our clients, who pay us directly. accordingly, medicare, medicaid and managed care reimbursement policy changes generally do not directly impact us. nevertheless, reimbursement changes in government programs, particularly medicare and medicaid, can and do indirectly affect the demand and the prices paid for our services. for example, our clients could receive reduced or no reimbursements because of a change in the rates or conditions set by federal or state governments, which would negatively affect the demand and the prices for our services. in addition, our hospital, healthcare facility and physician practice group clients could suffer civil and criminal penalties, and be excluded from participating in medicare, medicaid and other healthcare programs for failure to comply with the laws and regulations, which may negatively affect our profitability.   a significant portion of our hospital and healthcare facility clients are state and federal government agencies, where our ability to compete for new contracts and orders, and the profitability of these contracts and orders, may be affected by government legislation, regulation or policy. additionally, in providing services to state and federal government clients and to clients who participate in state and federal programs, we are also subject to specific laws and regulations, which government agencies have broad latitude to enforce. if we were to be excluded from participation in these programs or should there be regulatory or policy changes or modification of application of existing regulations, it would likely materially adversely affect our business and our consolidated operating results, financial condition and cash flows. the success of our business depends on our ability to quickly and efficiently obtain licenses and privileges for our clinicians and physicians in the various jurisdictions and settings in which we operate. the costs to comply and obtain the necessary licensure may impact the revenues and profitability of our business.   we are also subject to certain laws and regulations applicable to recruitment and placement agencies. like all employers, we must also comply with various laws and regulations relating to employment and pay practices. there is a risk that we could be subject to payment of additional wages, insurance and employment and payroll related taxes. because of the nature of our business, the impact of these employment and payroll laws and regulations may have a more pronounced effect on our business. these laws and regulations may also impede our ability to grow the size and profitability of our operations.   legislation regarding the current delivery and third party payor system for healthcare may have significant and unforeseeable affects on our business.   10 table of contents  the ppaca was signed into law on march 23, 2010.  the ppaca was subsequently amended on march 30, 2010 by the reconciliation act. the ppaca and reconciliation act (collectively the “act”) entail sweeping health care reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 through 2018, and many provisions in the act require the issuance of additional guidance from the u.s. department of labor, the irs, the u.s. department of health & human services, and the states. beginning in 2014, a number of key provisions of the act take effect including, the establishment of state insurance exchanges (“exchanges”), insurance market reforms, “pay or play” penalties on large employers and the imposition of excise taxes on the health insurance industry and reinsurance taxes on insurers and third party administrators. collectively, these items have the potential to significantly change the insurance marketplace and how employers provide insurance to employees. in 2013, we intend to conduct an extensive evaluation to determine the impact of the act on our benefit plans for our corporate, travel and local staff employees and our future benefits offerings. in future periods, the changes may result in increased costs to us. additionally, contractual arrangements and competitive market conditions may limit or delay our ability to increase our prices to offset any associated potential increased costs.   the challenge to the classification of certain of our healthcare professionals as independent contractors could adversely affect our profitability.   we treat physicians and certain advanced practitioners, such as certified nurse anesthetists, nurse practitioners and physician assistants, as independent contractors. federal or state taxing authorities may take the position that such professionals are employees exposing us to additional wage and insurance claims, and employment and payroll-related taxes. a reclassification of our locum tenens clinicians and physicians to employees from independent contractors could result in liability that would have a significant negative impact on the profitability of the period in which assessed, and would require changes to our payroll and related business processes, which could be costly. in addition, many states have laws that prohibit non-physician owned companies from employing physicians, referred to as the “corporate practice of medicine.” if our independent contractor physicians were classified as employees in states that prohibit the corporate practice of medicine, we may be prohibited from conducting our locum tenens business in those states under our current business model, which may have a substantial negative effect on our revenues, results of operations and profitability. medical malpractice, violation of employment and wage regulations and other claims asserted against us could subject us to substantial liabilities.   we, along with our clients, clinicians and physicians are subject to investigations, claims and legal actions alleging malpractice or related legal theories. at times, plaintiffs name us in these lawsuits and actions regardless of our contractual obligations, the competency of the clinicians and physicians, the standard of care provided by the clinicians and physicians, the quality of service that we provided or our actions. in certain instances, we are contractually required to indemnify our clients against some or all of these potential legal actions. additionally, we may be subject to various employment claims, including wage and hour claims, by our corporate employees, clinicians and physicians. we are also subject to possible claims alleging discrimination, sexual harassment and other similar activities in which we or our hospital and healthcare facility clients and their agents have allegedly engaged.   we maintain various types of insurance coverage, including professional liability and employment practices, through insurance carriers, and/or we self-insure for these claims through accruals for retention reserves. however, the cost of defending such claims, even if groundless, could be substantial and the associated negative publicity could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and place qualified employees, clinicians and physicians in the future. we may also experience increased insurance costs and reserve accruals and may not be able to pass on all or any portion of increased insurance costs to our clients, thereby reducing our profitability. additionally, our insurance coverage and reserve accruals may not be sufficient to cover all claims against us. we are also subject to exam from various federal and state taxation authorities from time to time and an unforeseen negative outcome from such an exam could have a negative impact on the company's financial position, results of operations and cash flow.   risk factors related to our operations, personnel and information systems   our inability to implement new operating and back office systems may adversely affect our operating results and ability to manage our business effectively.   we have technology, operations and human capital infrastructures to support our existing business. we must continue to invest in these infrastructures including implementing new operating and back office systems to support our growth, and if we 11 table of contents  are unable to do so, it may impede our growth. additionally, implementing new systems is costly and involves risks inherent in the conversion to a new computer system, including loss of information, disruption to our normal operations, changes in accounting procedures and internal control over financial reporting, as well as problems achieving accuracy in the conversion of electronic data. failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in increased costs, the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention and resources and could materially adversely affect our operating results, internal controls over financial reporting and ability to manage our business effectively.   technology disruptions and obsolescence may negatively affect our business operations.   our ability to deliver services to our clients and to manage our internal systems depends largely upon our access to and the performance of our management information and communications systems, including our client- and clinician-facing self-service websites. these systems also maintain accounting and financial information, upon which we depend to fulfill our financial reporting obligations. although we have risk mitigation measures, these systems, and our access to these systems, are not impervious to floods, fire, storms, or other natural disasters, or service interruptions. additionally, these systems are subject to other non-environmental risks, including technological obsolescence and lack of strategic alignment with our evolving business. if our systems do not adequately support our operations, are damaged or disrupted or if we are required to incur significant additional costs to replace, repair, maintain or expand them, it may adversely affect our business operations and our profitability.   if we do not continue to recruit and retain sufficient quality clinicians and physicians at reasonable costs, it could increase our operating costs and negatively affect our business and our profitability.   we rely significantly on our ability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of clinicians and physicians who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our clients. we compete with healthcare staffing companies, recruitment and placement agencies and with hospitals, healthcare facilities and physician practice groups to attract clinicians and physicians based on the quantity, diversity and quality of assignments offered, compensation packages and the benefits that we provide. we rely on our human capital intensive, relationship-oriented approach and national infrastructure to enable us to compete in all aspects of our business, but particularly in the permanent physician staffing business. we must continually evaluate and expand our temporary and permanent healthcare professional network to serve the needs of our clients.   currently, there is a shortage of certain qualified clinicians and physicians in the united states. high general unemployment levels may reduce the number of clinicians and physicians willing to take on temporary assignments as opposed to permanent positions, a tendency that may continue and lag a general economic recovery. we may be unable to continue to maintain or increase the number of temporary and permanent clinicians and physicians that we recruit, decreasing the potential for growth of our business. our ability to recruit and retain temporary and permanent clinicians and physicians depends on several factors, including our ability to provide our clinicians and physicians with assignments and placements that they view as attractive and to provide competitive compensation packages and fees. the costs of attracting clinicians and physicians and providing them with attractive compensation packages may be higher than we anticipate, or we may be unable to pass these costs on to our hospital and healthcare facility clients, which may reduce our profitability. moreover, if we are unable to recruit temporary and permanent clinicians and physicians, our service execution may deteriorate and, as a result, we could lose clients.   the inability to properly screen and match quality clinicians and physicians with suitable placements may negatively affect demand for our services.   our success depends on the quality of our clinicians and physicians. a quality or licensure issue could adversely affect our business, client demand for our services, and potential for growth for us and our sector. an inability to properly screen, match, and monitor clinicians and physicians for acceptable credentials, experience, and performance may cause clients to lose confidence in our services, which may damage our reputation and result in clients opting to utilize competitors’ services or rely on their own internal resources. our ability to ensure the quality of our clinicians and physicians relies heavily on the effectiveness of our data and communication systems as well as properly trained and competent operational employees that screen and match clinicians and physicians in suitable placements.   our operations may deteriorate if we are unable to continue to attract, develop and retain our sales and operations team members.   our success is dependent upon the performance of our sales and operations team members. the number of individuals who meet our qualifications for these positions is limited, and we may experience difficulty in attracting qualified candidates. in addition, we commit substantial resources to the training, development and support of our team members. competition for 12 table of contents  qualified sales team members in the line of business in which we operate is strong, and we may not be able to retain some of our sales team members after we have expended the time and expense to recruit and train them.   the loss of key officers and management personnel could adversely affect our business and operating results.   we believe that the success of our business strategy and our ability to maintain our recent levels of profitability depends on the continued employment of our senior management team. we have an employment agreement with susan r. salka, our president and chief executive officer, through may 4, 2014, which is renewable on an annual basis. other senior members of the team are employees at will with standard severance agreements. if members of our senior management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. our inability to maintain the positive brand identities that we have developed and acquired may adversely affect our results of operations.   we have invested substantial amounts in acquiring, developing and maintaining our brands, and our success depends substantially on our ability to maintain positive brand identities for existing services and effectively building up brand image for new services. we cannot assure that additional expenditures and our continuing commitment to marketing and improving our brands will have the desired effect on our brands’ value, which may adversely affect our results of operations.   we maintain a substantial amount of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles on our balance sheet that may decrease our earnings or increase our losses if we recognize an impairment to goodwill or indefinite lived intangibles.   we maintain goodwill on our balance sheet, which represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets and indefinite lived intangibles we acquired. we evaluate goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles for impairment annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. if we identify an impairment, we record a charge to earnings. an impairment charge to goodwill or indefinite lived intangibles would decrease our earnings or increase our losses, as the case may be, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock.   risk factors related to our indebtedness and other liabilities   we have substantial accruals for self-insured retentions and uncertain income tax liability on our balance sheet, and any significant adverse adjustments in these accruals may decrease our earnings or increase our losses and negatively impact our cash flow.   we maintain accruals for self-insured retentions for professional liability, health insurance, workers compensation and other employment practices related matters on our balance sheet. a significant increase to these self-insured retention accruals may decrease our earnings. we determine the adequacy of our self-insured retention accruals by evaluating our historical experience and trends, related to both insurance claims and payments, information provided to us by our insurance brokers, attorneys, third party administrators, and actuarial firms, tax advisors as well as industry experience and trends. if such information collectively indicates that our accruals are overstated or understated, we reduce or provide for additional accruals, as appropriate.   in addition, we maintain an uncertain income tax liability related to certain income tax positions that we have taken. as of december 31, 2012, the uncertain income tax liability including interest and penalties was $24.6 million. adjustments in the amount or nature of accruals for tax matters may negatively impact our financial results and cash flow if there are payments to governmental agencies associated with these tax positions. our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our future financial condition.   we are party to a credit agreement, which contains various financial covenants, restricts the payment of dividends, and limits the amount of repurchases of our common stock. as of december 31, 2012, our term loans outstanding, including the current portion, equaled $158.2 million, net of discount.   our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition by, among other things: • increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or to increases in interest rates, particularly with respect to the portion of our outstanding debt that is subject to variable interest rates; • potentially limiting our ability to obtain additional financing or to obtain such financing on favorable terms; 13 table of contents  • causing us to dedicate a portion of future cash flow from operations to service or pay down our debt, which reduces the cash available for other purposes, such as operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; and • possibly limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be less leveraged. our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. additionally, if we are not in compliance with the covenants in our credit agreement, we would be in default, and the lenders could call the debt, which would have a material adverse affect on our business.   item 1b. unresolved