item 1a. risk factors   in addition to the other information in this report, you should consider carefully the following risk factors when evaluating our business. any of these risks, or the occurrence of any of the events described in these risk factors, could cause our actual future results, performance or achievements to be materially different from or could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently do not deem material could arise, any of which could also materially adversely affect us. if the automotive retail environment continues to be challenging and our dealerships are unable to generate sufficient cash, our liquidity position may be materially adversely affected. for the last three years, the automotive retail industry has experienced an unprecedented challenging environment. the seasonally adjusted annual rate (“saar”) of new vehicle sales in the u.s., which was over 16.0 million from 1999 to 2007, decreased to approximately 13.2 million in 2008 and 10.4 million in 2009. while the automotive retail industry experienced a modest recovery in 2010 with a 11.6 million saar, we believe improvement in the industry will continue to be slow, with saar expected to reach only 12.5 million to 13.0 million in 2011. our operations have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the continuance of uncertain economic conditions. we also expect continued difficulty for consumers in securing vehicle financing as unemployment remains higher than recent historical averages. if consumers are unable to secure financing to purchase vehicles, saar could be further negatively impacted, which in turn could adversely impact our cash flows. 13 table of contents if we are unable to generate sufficient operating cash flow, we may need to enter into certain extraordinary transactions in order to generate sufficient cash to sustain our operations, which may include, but not be limited to selling certain of our dealerships or other assets and borrowing under our existing credit facilities. there can be no assurance that, if necessary, we will be able to enter into any such transactions in a timely manner or on reasonable terms, if at all. furthermore, in the event we are required to sell dealership assets to enhance our liquidity, the sale of any material portion of such assets could have an adverse effect on our revenue stream, the size of our operations and certain corporate efficiencies. if we are unable to generate sufficient operating cash flow or enter into any such transactions in a timely manner, our liquidity may be materially adversely affected. our dealerships’ profitability depends in large part upon customer demand for the particular vehicle lines they carry. the profitability of our dealerships depends in large part on the overall success of the vehicle lines they carry. historically, we have generated most of our revenue through new vehicle sales. new vehicle sales also tend to lead to sales of higher-margin products and services such as finance and insurance products and parts and services. although we have sought to limit our dependence on any one vehicle brand, we have focused our new vehicle sales operations on mid-line import and luxury brands. our current brand mix is weighted 86% towards luxury and mid-line import brands, with the remaining 14% consisting of domestic brands. for the year ended december 31, 2010, brands representing 5% or more of our revenues from new vehicle sales were as follows:   brand % of total new vehicle revenues honda 23 % nissan 13 % toyota 10 % bmw 9 % mercedes-benz 8 % ford 8 % lexus 6 % acura 5 % infiniti 5 %   if a manufacturer fails to produce desirable vehicles or develops a reputation for producing undesirable vehicles, and we own dealerships that sell that manufacturer’s vehicles, our revenues at those dealerships could be adversely affected as consumers shift their vehicle purchases toward more desirable brands, makes and models. if the profitability at certain of our dealerships is adversely affected, there could be an significant reduction of our cash flows, which in turn could result in impairments of such dealership's properties and/or intangible assets. we depend on our ability to obtain a desirable mix of popular new vehicles from manufacturers. typically, popular vehicles produce the highest profit margins but are the most difficult to obtain from manufacturers. manufacturers generally allocate their vehicles among their franchised dealerships based on the sales history of each dealership, and in some instances on the level of capital expenditures associated with such dealerships. if our dealerships experience prolonged periods of sales declines, those manufacturers may cut back their allotments of popular vehicles to our dealerships and, as a result, our new vehicle sales and profits may decline. changes or declines in consumer demand, due to general economic conditions, changes in preferences, or otherwise, could adversely affect us. our business is heavily dependent on consumer demand and preferences. further, retail vehicle sales are cyclical and historically have experienced periodic downturns characterized by oversupply and weak demand. these cycles are often dependent on general economic conditions and consumer confidence, as well as levels of discretionary personal income, credit availability and interest rates. the current uncertain economic climate in the u.s. continues to have a significant impact on our retail business, particularly sales of new and used automobiles, especially as unemployment rates remain high and housing prices remain unstable. in addition, fuel prices have been unstable and have reached historically high levels in the recent past. significant increases in gasoline prices could cause a reduction in automobile purchases and a further shift in buying patterns from luxury or suv models (which typically provide higher profit margins to retailers like us) to smaller, more economical vehicles (which typically have lower profit margins). a continued shift in preferences by consumers for smaller, more economic vehicles may have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 14 table of contents while a decline in demand for new vehicles in some instances creates additional demand for parts and services due to the aging of and increased wear and tear on existing vehicles, in difficult economic conditions, people often delay nonessential service and repairs on their vehicles. continued delays on the service and repairs of vehicles due to general economic conditions or otherwise could have a further adverse effect on our parts and service business, which has traditionally produced higher profit margins for our business, and thus could also have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. conversely, in the recent past, we have seen the prices of used vehicles generally increase, which increase has created a demand for new vehicles. a continual increase in the number of new vehicle sales over the number of used vehicle sales could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations as used vehicle sales have traditionally produced higher profit margins for our business. furthermore, the general increase in the cost of vehicles to us, coupled with lower manufacturer incentives and customers who seek to pay the lowest price possible for vehicles, has resulted in continued pressure on our profit margins. a continued decrease in our profit margins could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, our results of operations and our business. we have significant debt, and the ability to incur additional debt may limit our flexibility to manage our business. furthermore, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash, our ability to service our debt may be materially adversely affected. we have substantial debt service obligations. as of december 31, 2010, we had total debt of $550.7 million, including $5.2 million classified as liabilities associated with assets held for sale, but excluding floor plan notes payable and the $1.7 million unamortized discount on our 3% convertible notes due 2012 (the "3% convertible notes") on our consolidated balance sheet. in addition, we and our subsidiaries have the ability to obtain additional debt from time to time to finance acquisitions, real property purchases, capital expenditures or for other purposes, subject to the restrictions contained in our bofa revolving credit facility, our jpmorgan used vehicle floor plan facility and the indentures governing our 8.375% senior subordinated notes due 2020 (the "8.375% notes") and our 7.625% senior subordinated notes due 2017 (the “7.625% notes”), as well as certain other agreements. we will continue to have substantial debt service obligations, consisting of required cash payments of principal and interest, for the foreseeable future. our significant indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: •     our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital or other general corporate purposes may be impaired;   •     a substantial portion of our current cash flow from operating activities must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations and other corporate purposes;   •     some of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which exposes us to certain risks of interest rate increases; and   •     we may be substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a relative competitive disadvantage and make us more vulnerable to changes in market conditions and governmental regulations. as a result of the foregoing and other potential limitations, our indebtedness obligations may limit our ability to take strategic actions that would otherwise enable us to manage our business, in a manner in which we otherwise would, absent such limitations, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. under various agreements to which we are a party, we are required to maintain compliance with certain financial and other covenants. our failure to comply with certain covenants in our debt, mortgage, lease and framework agreements could adversely affect our ability to access our revolving credit facilities and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. there are operating and financial restrictions and covenants in certain of our leases and in our debt instruments, including our revolving credit facilities with bank of america, n.a. and jpmorgan chase bank, n.a., the indentures governing our 8.375% notes and our 7.625% notes and the mortgage agreements or guarantees for mortgages held by wells fargo bank, n.a., successor to wachovia bank, national association, and wachovia financial services, inc., and certain of our other mortgage obligations. these limit, among other things, our ability to incur certain additional debt, to create certain liens or other encumbrances, and to make certain payments (including dividends and repurchases of our shares and investments). our revolving credit facilities, mortgages and/or guarantees related to such mortgages, and certain of our lease and framework agreements, require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios. if we are unable to comply with any applicable financial or other covenants, we may be required to seek waivers of or modifications to our covenants from our lenders, or we may need to undertake a transaction designed to generate proceeds sufficient to repay such debt. obtaining such waivers or modifications often requires the payment to the bank lenders of significant fees and requires significant time and attention of management. in light of continued uncertain conditions in the 15 table of contents automotive industry and the conditions in the credit markets generally, we cannot give any assurance that we would be able to successfully take any necessary actions at times, or on terms acceptable to us. we are currently in compliance with all applicable financial and other covenants. however, our failure to satisfy any of these covenants in the future would constitute a default under the relevant debt agreement, which would (i) entitle the lenders under such agreement to terminate our ability to borrow under the relevant agreement and accelerate our obligations to repay outstanding borrowings; (ii) require us to apply our available cash to repay these borrowings and/or (iii) prevent us from making debt service payments on our 8.375% notes, our 7.625% notes, and our 3% convertible notes. in many cases, a default under one of our debt agreements could trigger cross default provisions in one or more of our other debt and lease agreements. in addition to the financial and other covenants contained in our various financing agreements, a number of our dealerships are located on properties that we lease. certain of the leases governing such properties have certain covenants with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with the covenants under our leases, the respective landlords could, among other remedies, terminate the leases and seek damages which could equal the amount to which the accelerated rents under the applicable lease for the remainder of the lease term exceeds the fair market rent over the same period, or evict us from the property. similarly, our failure to comply with financial and other covenants in our framework agreements would give the relevant manufacturer certain rights, including the right to reject proposed acquisitions, and may give them the right to repurchase their franchises from us. events that give rise to such rights, and our inability to acquire additional dealerships or the requirement that we sell one or more of our dealerships at any time, could inhibit the growth of our business, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a general disruption in the credit markets could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in the recent past, global financial markets and economic conditions have been disruptive and volatile, and continue to be uncertain. these issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of certain credit risks and continued weak economic conditions in certain industries and sectors have made it difficult to obtain funding. we currently maintain revolving credit facilities with bank of america, n.a., jpmorgan chase bank, n.a., and a syndicate of other banks under those credit facilities, and we have hedge transactions in place with wells fargo bank, n.a., wachovia financial services, inc., goldman sachs & co. and deutsche bank ag, london branch. if any of these financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us or have entered into hedge or similar transactions with us are further adversely affected by the current uncertain conditions in the u.s. and international capital markets, they may become unable or unwilling to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to us or otherwise fulfill their obligations under the relevant agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to conduct our operations. furthermore, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased in connection with the uncertain financial markets, as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted more stringent lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. our inability to access necessary or desirable funding, or to enter into certain related transactions, when and at costs deemed appropriate by us could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and liquidity. our capital costs and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by changes in interest rates. we generally finance our purchases of new vehicle inventory and have the ability to finance the purchase of used vehicle inventory using floor plan credit facilities under which we are charged interest at variable rates. in addition, we have the ability to borrow funds under our various credit facilities at variable interest rates. therefore, our interest expense from variable rate debt will rise with increases in interest rates. in addition, a significant rise in interest rates may also have the effect of depressing demand in the interest rate sensitive aspects of our business, particularly new and used vehicle sales, because most of our customers finance their vehicle purchases. as a result, rising interest rates may have the effect of simultaneously increasing our costs and reducing our revenues. given our debt composition as of december 31, 2010, each one percent increase in market interest rates would increase our total annual interest expense, including floor plan interest, by as much as$4.8 million. when considered in connection with reduced expected sales as and if interest rates increase, any such increase could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   adverse conditions affecting the manufacturers of the vehicles that we sell may negatively impact our revenues and profitability. 16 table of contents our ability to successfully market vehicles to the public depends to a great extent on aspects of our manufacturers’ operations. vehicle manufacturers have been, and continue to be, adversely affected by the recent u.s. and global recession. there has been a significant decline in vehicle sales, and other factors, such as rising interest rates and the tightening of the credit markets, have contributed to a difficult retail environment. in addition, conditions which further negatively affect vehicle manufacturers in any of the following areas could have an adverse effect on their respective revenues and profitability:   •     financial condition;   •     marketing efforts;   •     reputation for quality;   •     manufacturer and other product defects, including recalls;   •     management;   •     disruption in manufacturing, importation and distribution; and   •     labor relations. adverse conditions that materially affect a vehicle manufacturer and impact its ability to profitably design, market, produce or distribute new vehicles could in turn materially adversely affect our ability to (i) sell vehicles produced by that manufacturer, obtain or finance our desired new vehicle inventories, (ii) access or benefit from manufacturer financial assistance programs, (iii) collect in full or on a timely basis any amounts due therefrom, and/or (iv) to obtain other goods and services provided by the impacted manufacturer. our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of any event that has an adverse effect on any vehicle manufacturers or distributors. in addition, if a vehicle manufacturer seeks protection from creditors in bankruptcy, among other things, (i) the manufacturer could seek to terminate or reject all or certain of our franchises, (ii) if the manufacturer is successful in terminating all or certain of our franchises, we may not receive adequate compensation for those franchises, (iii) our cost to obtain financing for our new vehicle inventory may increase or no longer be available from such manufacturer’s captive finance subsidiary, (iv) consumer demand for such manufacturer’s products could be materially adversely affected, especially if costs related to improving such manufacturer’s poor financial condition are imputed to the price of its products, (v) there may be a significant disruption in the availability of consumer credit to purchase or lease vehicles or negative changes in the terms of such financing, which may negatively impact our sales, or (vi) there may be a reduction in the value of receivables and inventory associated with that manufacturer. the occurrence of any one or more of the above-mentioned events could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if vehicle manufacturers reduce or discontinue sales incentive, warranties or other promotional programs, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. our dealerships benefit from certain sales incentives, warranties and other promotional programs of vehicle manufacturers that are intended to promote and support their respective new vehicle sales. some key incentive programs include:   •     customer rebates on new vehicles;   •     dealer incentives on new vehicles;   •     special financing or leasing terms;   •     warranties on new and used vehicles; and   •     sponsorship of used vehicle sales by authorized new vehicle dealers. manufacturers often make many changes to their incentive programs during each year. any reduction or discontinuation of key manufacturers’ incentive programs may reduce our sales volume which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our sales of vehicles, our results of operations and financial condition have been and may continue to be adversely affected by depressed levels of available consumer financing. the majority of vehicle purchase transactions are financed, particularly used vehicle transactions. during the recent global recession, consumers experienced a decline in the availability of credit due to a number of factors, including an overall tightening of the lending markets. in addition, manufacturers decreased the availability of leases or terminated leasing programs altogether. the reduced availability of credit and the increase in the cost to consumers for such credit has contributed to the decline in our vehicle sales. a continued reduction in credit availability, or continued high costs thereof, could result in a 17 table of contents decline in our vehicle sales that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. sub-prime lenders have historically provided financing to those buyers who, for a number of reasons, do not have access to traditional financing, including those buyers who have a poor credit history or lack the down payment necessary to purchase a vehicle. sub-prime lenders have recently become more stringent with their credit standards, which has made it more difficult for consumers needing sub-prime financing to obtain credit. furthermore, the sub-prime lenders may continue to apply higher credit requirements in the future. if the current levels of availability of credit in the sub-prime lending market continue, the ability of these consumers to purchase vehicles could remain limited, resulting in a decline in our used vehicle sales. retail sales of used vehicles generally have higher gross margins than new vehicles. a decline in our used vehicle sales could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and an adverse effect on our profitability. our business may be adversely affected by unfavorable conditions in one or more of our local markets, even if those conditions are not prominent nationally. our overall corporate results are also subject to local economic, competitive and other conditions prevailing in the various geographic markets in which we operate. our dealerships currently are located in the atlanta, austin, charlotte, charlottesville, dallas-fort worth, durham, fayetteville, fort pierce, fresno, greensboro, greenville, houston, jackson, jacksonville, little rock, orlando, princeton, richmond, st. louis and tampa markets. if economic conditions remain uncertain, consumer spending remains low or competition for services offered by automotive retailers remains significant in any of these markets, or any of these factors becomes exacerbated, our results of operations, revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. if we fail to obtain renewals of one or more of our dealer agreements on acceptable terms, if certain of our franchises are terminated, or if certain manufacturers’ rights under their agreements with us are triggered, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. each of our dealerships operates under the terms of a dealer agreement with the manufacturer (or manufacturer-authorized distributor) of each new vehicle brand it carries and/or is authorized to service, and we operate under additional framework agreements for some vehicle manufacturers, which contain additional requirements that govern the particular vehicle manufacturer’s franchises. our dealerships may obtain new vehicles from manufacturers, service vehicles, sell new vehicles and display vehicle manufacturers’ trademarks only to the extent permitted under these agreements. as a result of the terms of our dealer, framework and related agreements and our dependence on the rights, granted by the manufacturers, the manufacturers have the right to exercise a great deal of control over our day-to-day operations, and the terms of these agreements govern key aspects of our operations, acquisition strategy and capital spending. our dealer agreements may be terminated or not renewed by manufacturers for a number of reasons, and many of the manufacturers have the right to direct us to divest our dealerships if there is a default under the franchise agreement, an unapproved change of control, or certain other unapproved events. our dealer agreements are scheduled to expire at various times. although we expect that these agreements will be renewed, there can be no assurances that we will be able to renew these agreements on a timely basis or that we will be able to obtain renewals on acceptable terms. most of our dealer agreements also provide the manufacturer with a right of first refusal to purchase any of the manufacturer’s franchises we seek to sell. our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected to the extent that our rights become compromised or our operations are restricted due to the terms of our dealer agreements or if we lose franchises representing a significant percentage of our revenues. our failure to meet consumer satisfaction, financial or sales performance requirements specified by manufacturers may adversely affect our ability to acquire new dealerships and our profitability. many manufacturers attempt to measure customers’ satisfaction with their experience in our sales and service departments through rating systems that are generally known in the automotive retailing industry as consumer satisfaction indices (“csi”). the use of csi ratings by manufacturers is in addition to their right to monitor the financial and sales performance of our dealerships. at the time we acquire a dealership or enter into a new dealer or framework agreement, manufacturers will often establish sales or performance criteria for that dealership. in accordance with the terms of these agreements, these criteria have been modified by various manufacturers from time to time in the past, and we cannot assure you that they will not be further modified or replaced by different criteria in the future. some of our dealerships have had difficulty from time to time meeting these criteria in the past. we cannot assure you that any of our dealerships will be able to comply with these criteria in the future. in accordance with the terms of an applicable framework agreement, a manufacturer may use these criteria as factors in evaluating any application we may make for acquisitions of additional dealerships. a manufacturer may refuse to consent to our acquisition of one of its franchises if it determines our dealerships do not comply with its performance criteria. this would 18 table of contents impede our ability to execute acquisitions and limit our ability to grow. in addition, we receive payments and incentives from certain manufacturers based, in part, on our csi ratings, and future payments may be materially reduced or eliminated if our csi ratings do not meet stated criteria. manufacturers’ actions in connection with any proposed acquisitions or divestitures may limit our future growth and impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are generally required to obtain manufacturer consent before we can acquire any additional dealerships selling such manufacturer’s automobiles. in addition, many of our dealer and framework agreements require that we meet certain csi rating and sales performance criteria as a condition to additional dealership acquisitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these performance criteria at any applicable time or that manufacturers will consent to future acquisitions, which may prevent us from being able to take advantage of market opportunities, and may limit our ability to expand our business. the process of applying for and obtaining manufacturer consents can take a significant amount of time, generally between 60 and 90 days or more. delays in consummating acquisitions caused by this process may negatively affect our ability to acquire dealerships that we believe will produce acquisition synergies and integrate well into our overall strategy. in addition, manufacturers typically establish minimum capital requirements for each of their dealerships on a case-by-case basis. as a condition to granting consent to a proposed acquisition, a manufacturer may require us to remodel and upgrade our facilities and capitalize the subject dealership at levels we would not otherwise choose to fund, causing us to divert our financial resources away from uses that management believes may be of higher long-term value to us. furthermore, the exercise by manufacturers of their right of first refusal to acquire a dealership may prevent us from acquiring dealerships that we otherwise would acquire which could have an adverse effect on our ability to grow through acquisitions. likewise, from time to time, we may determine that it is in our best interest to sell one or more of our dealerships. parties that are interested in acquiring any dealership may also be required to obtain the consent of the manufacturer. the refusal by the manufacturer to approve a potential buyer may delay the sale of that dealership, and would require us to find another potential buyer or wait until the buyer is able to meet the requirements of the manufacturer. a delay in the sale of a dealership could have a negative impact on our profitability and an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, many vehicle manufacturers place limits on the total number of franchises that any group of affiliated dealerships may own. certain manufacturers place limits on the number of franchises or share of total brand vehicle sales that may be maintained by an affiliated dealership group on a national, regional or local basis, as well as limits on store ownership in contiguous markets. if we reach any of these limits, we may be prevented from making further acquisitions, which could negatively affect our future growth. if state laws that protect automotive retailers are repealed, weakened or superseded by our framework agreements with manufacturers, our dealerships will be more susceptible to termination, non-renewal or renegotiation of their dealer agreements. applicable state laws generally provide that an automobile manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a dealer agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth “good cause” and stating the grounds for termination or non-renewal. some state laws allow dealers to file protests or petitions or allow them to attempt to comply with the manufacturer’s criteria within a notice period to avoid the termination or non-renewal. though unsuccessful to date, manufacturers’ lobbying efforts may lead to the repeal or revision of applicable state laws. our framework agreements with certain manufacturers contain provisions that, among other things, attempt to limit the protections available to dealers under applicable state laws. if these laws are repealed in the states in which we operate, manufacturers may be able to terminate our franchises without providing advance notice, an opportunity to cure or a showing of good cause. without the protection of these state laws, it may also be more difficult for us to renew our dealer agreements upon expiration. changes in laws that provide manufacturers the ability to terminate our dealer agreements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, if a manufacturer seeks protection from creditors in bankruptcy, courts have held that the federal bankruptcy laws may supersede the state laws that protect automotive retailers resulting in either the termination, non-renewal or rejection of franchises by such manufacturers. manufacturers’ restrictions regarding a change in our stock ownership may result in the termination or forced sale of our franchises, which may have a number of impacts on us, including adversely impacting our business, financial condition and results of operations, or even deterring an acquisition of us. some of our dealer agreements and framework agreements with manufacturers prohibit transfers of any ownership interests of a dealership or, in some cases, its parent, without the applicable manufacturer’s consent. our agreements with some manufacturers provide that, under certain circumstances, the manufacturer would have the right to terminate our agreement or force a sale of our franchise if a person or entity acquires an ownership interest in us above a specified level or if a person or entity acquires the right to vote a specified percentage of our common stock without the approval of the applicable 19 table of contents manufacturer. triggers of these clauses are often based upon actions by our stockholders and are generally outside of our control, and may result in the termination or non-renewal of our dealer and framework agreements or forced sale of one or more franchises, which may have a material adverse effect on us. these restrictions may also prevent or deter prospective acquirers from acquiring control of us and, therefore, may adversely impact the value of our common stock. our business is seasonal, and events occurring during seasons that revenues are typically higher may disproportionately affect our results of operations and financial condition. the automobile industry is subject to seasonal variations in revenues. demand for vehicles is generally lower during the first and fourth quarters of each year. accordingly, we expect our revenues and operating results generally to be lower in the first and fourth quarters than in the second and third quarters of any year. if conditions occur during the second or third quarters that weaken automotive sales, such as severe weather in the geographic areas in which our dealerships operate, war, high fuel costs, depressed economic conditions or similar adverse conditions, our revenues for the year may be disproportionately adversely affected. our business may be adversely affected by import product restrictions, foreign trade risks and currency valuations that may impair our ability to sell foreign vehicles or parts profitably. a portion of our new vehicle business involves the sale of vehicles, parts or vehicles composed of parts that are manufactured outside the u.s. as a result, our operations are subject to customary risks of importing merchandise, including import duties, exchange rates, trade restrictions, work stoppages and general political and socio-economic conditions in other countries. the u.s. or the countries from which our products are imported may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duties or tariffs, which may affect our operations and our ability to purchase imported vehicles and/or parts at reasonable prices. relative weakness of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies in the future may result in an increase in costs to us and in the retail price of such vehicles or parts, which could discourage consumers from purchasing such vehicles and adversely impact our profitability. if we are unable to acquire and successfully integrate additional dealerships, we may be unable to realize desired results and be required to divert resources from comparatively more profitable operations. we believe that the automobile retailing industry is a mature industry whose sales are significantly impacted by the prevailing economic climate, both nationally and in local markets. accordingly, we believe that our future growth depends in part on our ability to manage expansion, control costs in our operations and acquire and effectively and efficiently integrate acquired dealerships into our organization. when seeking to acquire and acquiring other dealerships, we face risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisitions. these risks include, but are not limited to:   •     failing to obtain manufacturers’ consents to acquisitions of additional franchises;   •     incurring significant transaction related costs for both completed and failed acquisitions;   •     incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses;   •     failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired dealerships and impairing relationships with employees;   •     incurring undisclosed liabilities at acquired dealerships;   •     disrupting our ongoing business and diverting our management resources to newly acquired dealerships; and   •     impairing relationships with manufacturers and customers as a result of changes in management. we may not adequately anticipate all the demands that our growth will impose on our personnel, procedures and structures, including our financial and reporting control systems, data processing systems and management structure. moreover, our failure to retain qualified management personnel at any acquired dealership may increase the risks associated with integrating the acquired dealership. if we cannot adequately anticipate and respond to these demands, we may fail to realize acquisition synergies and our resources will be focused on incorporating new operations into our structure rather than on areas that may be more profitable. there is competition to acquire automotive dealerships, and we may not be able to grow our business through acquisitions if attractive targets are not available or if market values result in prices at levels that we do not believe offer an acceptable rate of return. we believe that the u.s. automotive retailing market is fragmented and offers many potential acquisition candidates. however, we often compete with several other national, regional and local dealer groups, and other strategic and financial 20 table of contents buyers, some of which may have greater financial resources, in evaluating potential acquisition candidates. competition for attractive acquisition targets may result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us, and increased acquisition costs. we may have to forego acquisition opportunities to the extent that we cannot negotiate such acquisitions on acceptable terms. substantial competition in automobile sales and services may adversely affect our profitability. the automotive retail and service industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location and selection. our competition includes:   •     franchised automobile dealerships in our markets that sell the same or similar new and used vehicles;   •     privately negotiated sales of used vehicles;   •     other used vehicle retailers, including regional and national vehicle rental companies;   •     internet-based used vehicle brokers that sell used vehicles to consumers;   •     service center chain stores; and   •     independent service and repair shops. we do not have any cost advantage in purchasing new vehicles from manufacturers. we typically rely on our advertising, merchandising, sales expertise, service reputation and dealership location to sell new and used vehicles. further, our dealer agreements do not grant us the exclusive right to sell a manufacturer’s product within a given geographic area. our revenues and profitability may be materially and adversely affected if competing dealerships expand their market share or additional franchises are awarded in our markets. property loss or other uninsured liabilities at some of our dealerships could impact our financial condition and results of operations. the automotive retail business is subject to substantial risk of property loss due to the significant concentration of property at dealership locations, including vehicles and parts. we have historically experienced business interruptions from time to time at several of our dealerships due to adverse weather conditions or other extraordinary events, such as hurricanes in florida and tornadoes and hail storms in texas and mississippi. other potential liabilities arising out of our operations may involve claims by employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or property damage and potential fines and penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements. to the extent we experience future events such as these, or others, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows may be materially adversely impacted. while we maintain insurance to protect against a number of losses, this insurance coverage often contains significant deductibles which we must pay prior to obtaining insurance coverage. in addition, we choose to “self-insure” for a portion of our potential liabilities, meaning we do not carry insurance from a third party for such liabilities, and are wholly responsible for any related losses. furthermore, the laws of some states prohibit insurance against certain types of liabilities, and so we self-insure for those liabilities. in certain instances, our insurance may not fully cover a loss depending on the applicable deductible or the magnitude and nature of the claim. additionally, changes in the cost or availability of insurance in the future could substantially increase our costs to maintain our current level of coverage or could cause us to reduce our insurance coverage and increase our self-insured risks. to the extent we incur significant additional costs for insurance, suffer losses that are not covered by in-force insurance or suffer losses for which we are self-insured, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. business interruptions at any of our dealerships due to a failure of any of our management information systems, including our inability to successfully convert our dealerships to a common dealer management system, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. we rely on management information systems at our dealerships which are licensed from third parties and are used in all aspects of our sales and service efforts, as well as in the preparation of our consolidated financial and operating data. in 2010, we began the conversion of our dealer management systems to a common dealer management system (“dms”) provided by adp. currently, approximately 30% of our dealerships have been successfully converted to the adp dms, and we expect to substantially complete the remaining conversions of our dealerships by the end of the summer of 2011. our business could be significantly disrupted if (i) we are unable to successfully convert the remaining dealerships to the adp dms, (ii) the adp dms fails to integrate with other third party management information systems, customer relations management tools or other software, or to the extent any of these systems become unavailable to us for any reason, or (iii) if our relationship deteriorates with adp or any of our other third-party providers. any such disruption in our business could materially adversely affect our 21 table of contents results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. government regulations and environmental regulation compliance costs may adversely affect our profitability. we are, and expect to continue to be, subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, including local licensing requirements. these laws regulate the conduct of our business, including:   •     motor vehicle and retail installment sales practices;   •     leasing;   •     sales of finance, insurance and vehicle protection products;   •     consumer credit;   •     deceptive trade practices;   •     consumer protection;   •     consumer privacy;   •     money laundering;   •     advertising;   •     land use and zoning; and   •     health and safety; and   •     employment practices.   environmental laws and regulations govern, among other things, discharges into the air and water, storage of petroleum substances and chemicals, the handling and disposal of wastes and remediation of contamination arising from spills and releases. in addition, we may also have liability in connection with materials that were sent to third-party recycling, treatment and/or disposal facilities under federal and state statutes. these federal and state statutes impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault or the legality of the conduct that contributed to the contamination. similar to many of our competitors, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with such federal and state statutes. in addition, we may be subject to broad liabilities arising out of contamination at our currently and formerly owned or operated facilities, at locations to which hazardous substances were transported from such facilities, and at such locations related to entities formerly affiliated with us. although for some such potential liabilities we believe we are entitled to indemnification from other entities, we cannot assure you that such entities will view their obligations as we do or will be able or willing to satisfy them. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or significant additional expenditures required to maintain compliance therewith, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and prospects. if we or our employees at the individual dealerships violate or are alleged to violate laws and regulations applicable to them or protecting consumers generally, we could be subject to individual claims or consumer class actions, administrative, civil or criminal actions investigations or actions and adverse publicity. such actions could expose us to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and civil fines and penalties, including suspension or revocation of our licenses and franchises to conduct dealership operations. some jurisdictions regulate finance fees and administrative or document fees that may be charged in connection with vehicle sales, which could restrict our ability to generate revenue from these activities. furthermore, the enactment of new laws and regulations that materially impair or restrict our sales, finance and insurance, or other operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and prospects. for example, in recent years, private plaintiffs and state attorneys general in the u.s. have increased their scrutiny of advertising, sales, and finance and insurance activities in the sale and leasing of motor vehicles. these activities have led many lenders to limit the amounts that may be charged to customers as fee income for these activities. if these or similar activities were to significantly restrict our ability to generate revenue from arranging financing for our customers, we could be adversely affected. in addition, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, which was signed into law on july 21, 2010, establishes a new consumer financial protection agency with broad regulatory powers. although automotive dealers are generally excluded from coverage within this agency, the dodd-frank act could lead to additional, indirect regulation of automotive dealers through its regulation of automotive finance companies and other financial institutions. likewise, employees and former employees are protected by a variety of employment laws and regulations. allegations of a 22 table of contents violation could subject us to individual claims or consumer class actions, administrative investigations or adverse publicity. such actions could expose us to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and civil fines and penalties. we are involved in various legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business, including litigation with employees and with customers regarding our products and services, and expect to continue to be subject to claims related to our existing business and any new business. a significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant license or permit or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future prospects. we further expect that, from time to time, new laws and regulations, particularly in the labor, employment, environmental and consumer protection areas will be enacted, and compliance with such laws, or penalties for failure to comply, could significantly increase our costs. healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect our future profitability and financial condition. rising healthcare costs and interest in universal healthcare coverage in the u.s. have resulted in government and private sector initiatives proposing healthcare reforms. the patient protection and affordable care act, which was signed into law on march 23, 2010, is expected to increase our annual employee health care costs , with the most significant increases commencing in 2014. we cannot predict the extent of the effect of this act, or any future state or federal healthcare legislation or regulation, will have on us. however, an expansion in government’s role in the u.s. healthcare industry could result in significant long-term costs to us, which could in turn adversely affect our future profitability and financial condition. governmental regulation pertaining to fuel economy (cafe) standards may affect a manufacturer’s ability to produce cost effective vehicles, which would impact our sales. the energy policy conservation act, enacted into law by congress in 1975, added title v, “improving automotive efficiency,” to the motor vehicle information and cost savings act and established corporate average fuel economy (“cafe”) standards for passenger cars and light trucks. cafe is the sales weighted average fuel economy, expressed in miles per gallon (mpg) of a manufacturer’s fleet of passenger cars or light trucks with a gross vehicle weight rating of 8,500 pounds or less, manufactured for sale in the u.s., for any given model year. the primary goal of cafe was to substantially increase passenger car fuel efficiency. congress has continuously increased the standards since 1974 and, since mid-year 1990, the passenger car standard was increased to 27.5 miles per gallon, a level at which it has remained through 2009. passenger car fuel economy is now required to rise to an industry average of 39 miles per gallon by 2016. likewise, significant changes to light truck cafe standards have been established over the years. the standard is expected to be increased to about 30 miles per gallon by 2016. the penalty for a manufacturer’s failure to meet the cafe standards is currently $5.50 per tenth of a mile per gallon for each tenth under the target volume times the total volume of those vehicles manufactured for a given model year. failure of a manufacturer to develop passenger vehicles and light trucks that meet cafe standards could subject the manufacturer to substantial penalties, increase the cost of vehicles sold to us, and adversely affect our ability to market and sell vehicles to meet consumer needs and desires. furthermore, congress may continue to increase cafe standards in the future and such additional legislation may have a further adverse impact on the manufacturers and our business operations.   climate change legislation or regulations restricting emission of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the vehicles we sell.   on december 15, 2009, the u.s. environmental protection agency (“epa”) published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. these findings allow the epa to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal clean air act. accordingly, the epa has proposed regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for greenhouse gas emissions from certain stationary sources. in addition, on october 30, 2009, the epa published a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the united states, including facilities that emit more than 25,000 tons of greenhouse gases on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. at the state level, more than one−third of the states, either individually or through multi−state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. the adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our facilities, equipment and operations or from the vehicles that we sell require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations and also could adversely affect demand for certain vehicles. 23 table of contents future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practices have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. the loss of key personnel may adversely affect our business. our success depends, to a significant degree, upon the continued contributions of our management team. manufacturer dealer or framework agreements may require the prior approval of the applicable manufacturer before any change is made in dealership general managers or other management positions. the loss of the services of one or more of these key employees may materially impair the profitability of our operations, or may result in a violation of an applicable dealer or framework agreement. in addition, we may need to hire additional managers or other key personnel from time to time. in some instances, potential acquisitions are more viable to us if we are able to retain experienced managers or obtain replacement managers should the owner or manager of an acquired dealership not continue to manage the business. the market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which we operate, particularly for general managers and sales and service personnel, is highly competitive and may subject us to increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. the loss of the services of key employees or the inability to attract additional qualified managers may adversely affect the ability of our dealerships to conduct their operations in accordance with the standards set by us or the manufacturers. we depend on our executive officers as well as other key personnel. although our ceo and coo entered into employment agreements with us, most of our key personnel are not bound by employment agreements, and those with employment agreements are bound only for a limited period of time. further, we do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key personnel. if we are unable to retain our key personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop and implement our business plans, which may have an adverse effect on our busines   24 table of contents item 1b. unresolved