item 1a.    risk factors the risks described below may materially impact your investment in our company or may in the future, and, in some cases already do, materially affect us and our business, financial condition and results of operations. you should carefully consider these factors with respect to your investment in our securities. we face intense competition and our failure to compete effectively may negatively affect sales of our products and services. the markets in which we operate, including the markets for medical diagnostic products and health information solutions, are rapidly evolving, and developments are expected to continue at a   18 table of contents rapid pace. competition in these markets is intense and expected to increase as new products, services and technologies become available and new competitors enter the market. our competitors in the united states and abroad are numerous and include, among others, diagnostic testing and medical products companies, universities and other research institutions, health information solutions providers, healthcare providers and health insurers. many of our existing or potential competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities, clinical, manufacturing, regulatory and marketing experience and financial and managerial resources than we do. our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected by:     •   customers’ perceptions of the comparative quality of our competitors’ products or services;     •   our ability to manufacture, in a cost-effective way, sufficient quantities of our products to meet customer demand;     •   the ability of our competitors to develop products, services and technologies that are more effective than ours or that render ours obsolete;     •   our competitors’ ability to obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would prevent us from offering competing products or services;     •   the ability of our competitors to obtain regulatory approval for the commercialization of products or services more rapidly or effectively than we do; and     •   competitive pricing by our competitors, particularly in emerging markets. in addition, as markets for our novel products become saturated with competing products, such as for our meter-based alere triage bnp test, the growth rates of sales unit volume and average selling prices for those products may decline, which may adversely impact our product sales, gross margins and overall financial results. this may occur even if we are able to successfully introduce new products in these markets, and achieve market acceptance of those products, in a timely manner. we face risks and uncertainties relating to the fda warning letter and oig subpoena. on october 9, 2012, we received a warning letter from the fda referencing inspectional observations set forth in an fda form 483 that we received in june 2012. the observations were the result of an inspection of our san diego facility conducted earlier during 2012 relating to our alere triage products, which resulted in two recalls of certain alere triage products and revised release specifications for our alere triage meter-based products. we have submitted evidence of our completion of most of the actions we committed to in response to the fda form 483 and warning letter. we intend to continue to work cooperatively with the fda in an effort to fully address each inspectional observation. in may 2012, alere san diego, inc. received a subpoena from the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services, or the oig, seeking documents relating primarily to the quality control testing and performance characteristics of our alere triage cardiac marker devices and the triage tox drug screen manufactured at alere san diego. we have provided documents in response to the oig subpoena, and the investigation is ongoing. we cannot assure you that the government will find our efforts to resolve the fda warning letter or the investigation initiated by the oig subpoena to be satisfactory. we may be unable to implement corrective actions within a timeframe or in a manner satisfactory to the fda. failure to do so can result in enforcement proceedings by the government, which may include potential civil or criminal fines and penalties, including disgorgement of amounts earned on any legally-adulterated products; injunctive relief, which could limit, modify or constrain our ability to manufacture, market and sell our products; and exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. we have received inquiries from regulatory authorities outside the united states regarding the alere triage recalls in the united states and, in at least one case, remedial or corrective action was required. we cannot predict whether other governments’ regulatory authorities will require additional remedial or   19 table of contents corrective actions in the future. the investigation initiated by the oig subpoena can result in civil or criminal fines or penalties, increased supervision of our business operations by the oig, or exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. we are unable to predict when these matters will be resolved or what action, if any, the government will take in connection with these matters. the issues arising out of the fda inspection and oig subpoena may be expanded to cover other matters. we can also face product liability, third-party payer, shareholder, or other litigation. any of these risks and uncertainties can adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. also, except for increases in manufacturing costs and decreased profitability for our alere triage products, we are unable to predict what impact these matters or ensuing proceedings, if any, will have on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. our related efforts to improve our production and quality control processes in accordance with the revised release specifications for the alere triage meter-based products and to increase production to offset lower yields have increased our manufacturing costs, and our costs may increase as we implement changes to enhance our quality control processes that we or the fda may deem necessary. because our efforts to improve our manufacturing processes at our san diego facility are ongoing and because we are continuing to seek to implement the remaining changes in accordance with the timelines set forth in our response to the fda, we cannot predict the continuing impact of the final quality control release specifications on our manufacturing yields. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to manufacture all of the impacted products at cost-effective yield rates under the final release specifications, in which case, we may be required to, or we may opt to, cease production and sale of the impacted products. in any case, we expect that our ability to supply certain alere triage products may continue to be limited, which we expect to adversely affect revenues from sales of these products. we are unable to predict the scope or the duration of any product shortage. our revenues and market share could continue to be adversely affected by customer decisions to switch to competing products due to product shortages or damage to our reputation resulting from these matters. we may experience difficulties that delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new or enhanced products or services. our success depends on our ability to effectively introduce new and competitive products and services. the development of new or enhanced products or services is a complex, costly and uncertain process and is becoming increasingly complex and uncertain in the united states. furthermore, developing and manufacturing new products and services require us to anticipate customers’ and patients’ needs and emerging technology trends accurately. we may experience research and development, manufacturing, regulatory, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent our introduction of new or enhanced products and services. the research and development process in the healthcare industry generally takes a significant amount of time from design stage to product launch. this process is conducted in various stages, and each stage presents the risk that we will not achieve our goals. we may have to abandon a product in which we have invested substantial resources. we cannot be certain that:     •   any of our products or services under development will prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials;     •   we will be able to obtain, in a timely manner or at all, necessary regulatory approvals;     •   the products and services we develop can be manufactured or provided at acceptable cost and with appropriate quality; or     •   these products and services, if and when approved, can be successfully marketed. these factors, as well as manufacturing or distribution problems or other factors beyond our control, could delay the launch of new products or services. any delay in the development, approval, production, marketing or distribution of a new product or service could materially and adversely affect our competitive position, our branding and our results of operations.   20 table of contents our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by international business risks. we generate a significant percentage of our net revenue from outside the united states, and a significant number of our employees, including manufacturing, sales, support, and research and development personnel, are located outside the united states, including in africa, australia, brazil, china, germany, india, ireland, israel, japan, norway, the philippines, south korea, and the united kingdom. conducting business outside the united states subjects us to numerous risks, including:     •   lost revenues as a result of macroeconomic developments, such as the current european budgetary issues, debt crisis and related european financial restructuring efforts, which may cause european governments to reduce spending and cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of european customers;     •   decreased liquidity resulting from longer accounts receivable collection cycles typical of foreign countries;     •   lower productivity resulting from difficulties we encounter in staffing and managing sales, support, and research and development operations across many countries;     •   lost revenues or unexpected expenses resulting from difficulties associated with enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems;     •   lost revenues or unexpected expenses resulting from disputes with third-party distributors of our products or from third parties claiming distribution rights to our products under foreign laws or legal systems;     •   lost revenues or unexpected expenses resulting from the imposition by foreign governments of trade barriers such as tariffs, quotas, preferential bidding, and import restrictions;     •   higher cost of sales resulting from import or export licensing requirements;     •   lost revenues or other adverse effects resulting from acts of war, terrorism, theft or other lawless conduct or otherwise resulting from economic, social or political instability in or affecting foreign countries in which we sell our products or operate;     •   lost revenues or other adverse effects resulting from international sanctions regimes;     •   adverse effects resulting from changes in foreign regulatory or other laws affecting sales of our products or our foreign operations;     •   greater tax liability resulting from international tax laws, including u.s. taxes on foreign subsidiaries;     •   increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;     •   increased costs to comply with changes in legislative or regulatory requirements;     •   lost revenues or increased expenses resulting from the failure of laws to protect our intellectual property rights; and     •   lost revenues resulting from delays in obtaining import or export licenses, transportation difficulties and delays resulting from inadequate local infrastructure. our international operations subject us to varied and complex domestic, foreign and international laws and regulations. compliance with these laws and regulations often involves significant costs or requires changes in our business practices that may reduce revenues and profitability. we could incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our global operations and could become subject to legal penalties if we do not comply with certain regulations. as a result of our international operations, we are subject to a number of legal requirements, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and the customs, export, trade sanctions and anti-boycott laws of the u.s., including those administered by the u.s. customs and border protection, the bureau of industry and security, the department of commerce and the office of   21 table of contents foreign assets control of the treasury department, as well as those of other nations in which we do business. compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and involves significant costs. in addition, our training and compliance programs and our other internal control policies may not always protect us from acts committed by our employees or agents. any violation of these requirements by us, our employees or our agents may subject us to significant criminal and civil liability. because our business relies heavily on foreign operations and revenues, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and our need to convert currencies may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. our business relies heavily on our foreign operations. eight of our ten largest manufacturing operations are located in canada, china, germany, japan, norway, south korea and the united kingdom, and we also have manufacturing operations in india, israel, south africa and spain. we have significant research and development operations in germany and the united kingdom, and we conduct additional research and development activities in china, israel, japan and south korea. in addition, for the year ended december 31, 2013, approximately 39% of our net revenue was derived from sales outside the united states. because of the scope of our foreign operations and foreign sales, we face significant exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. our primary exposures are related to the operations of our european and asia pacific subsidiaries and our manufacturing facilities in china, japan and south korea. these exposures may change over time as our business practices evolve and could result in increased costs or reduced revenue and could affect our actual cash flow. changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and, in some instances, may have a significant impact on our operating results. we cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the degree to which we can cost-effectively mitigate these risks. healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010 (as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010), or the aca, makes comprehensive reforms at the federal and state level affecting the coverage and payment for healthcare services in the united states. the aca contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and reduce the costs of medicare and medicaid. while certain provisions of the aca took effect immediately, others have delayed effective dates. given the scope of the changes made by the aca and the ongoing implementation efforts, we cannot predict the impact of every aspect of the new law on our operations. in particular, the aca significantly alters medicare advantage reimbursements by setting the federal benchmark payment closer to the payments in the traditional fee-for-service medicare program. this change could reduce our revenues from the medicare advantage plans for which we perform services, although the precise effect on any particular plan, much less the impact on us, is impossible to predict. effective january 1, 2013, the aca includes a 2.3% excise tax on the sale of certain medical devices sold outside of the retail setting. for the year ended december 31, 2013, we incurred $7.5 million in excise tax expense related to the domestic sale of our medical device products as a result of the implementation of this tax. legislative provisions impose federal reporting requirements regarding payments or relationships between manufacturers of covered drugs, devices or biological or medical supplies, and physicians, among others. the aca requires that sponsors of health insurance plans maintain specified minimum medical loss ratios; these plans are customers of our health information solutions. we believe that the majority of our health information solutions would qualify as “quality improving activities”, but there have been no regulations specifically classifying our services in such a manner. if our health information solutions are not classified as “quality improving activities” under the aca, health insurance providers will not be permitted to count expenditures on those services toward the calculation of their medical loss ratios, which may have a material adverse effect on demand for our health information solutions and the results of operations of our health information solutions business.   22 table of contents additionally, revenues associated with our diabetes business have been impacted by the durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics and supplies, or the dmepos, competitive bidding program operated by the centers for medicare & medicaid services, or cms. under this program, medicare no longer reimburses suppliers for certain products and services, including mail-order diabetes testing supplies, based on the medicare fee schedule amount. instead cms now provides reimbursement for those products and services based on a competitive bidding process. our arriva business was selected through the bidding process as one of 18 recipients of a contract to have its products reimbursed by medicare. while it limits the number of potential participants in the mail-order diabetes testing supplies market, the dmepos competitive bidding program also requires us to sell diabetes supplies subject to medicare reimbursement at significantly lower prices, which has had a material adverse effect on the profitability of these products. legislative and regulatory bodies are likely to continue to pursue healthcare reform initiatives and may continue to reduce the funding of the medicare and medicaid programs, including medicare advantage, in an effort to reduce overall healthcare spending. the ultimate impact of all of the reforms in the aca, and its impact on us, is impossible to predict. if all of the reforms in the legislation are implemented, or if other reforms in the united states or elsewhere are adopted, those reforms may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. if the results of clinical studies required to gain regulatory approval to sell our products are not available when expected, or do not demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of those products, we may be unable to sell those products. before we can sell certain of our products, we must conduct clinical studies intended to demonstrate that those products are safe and effective and perform as expected. the results of these clinical studies are used to obtain regulatory approval from government authorities such as the fda. clinical studies are experiments involving human patients having the diseases or medical conditions that the product is trying to evaluate or diagnose. conducting clinical studies is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. in some cases, we may spend several years completing the necessary clinical studies. if we fail to adequately manage our clinical studies, those clinical studies and corresponding regulatory approvals may be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our products altogether. even if we successfully manage our clinical studies, we may not obtain favorable results and may not obtain regulatory approval. if we are unable to market and sell our new products or are unable to obtain approvals in the timeframe needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. if we are unable to obtain required clearances or approvals for the commercialization of our products in the united states, we would not be able to sell those products in the united states. our future performance depends on, among other matters, the timely receipt of necessary regulatory approvals for new products. regulatory approval can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. in addition, regulatory processes are subject to change, and new or changed regulations can result in increased costs and unanticipated delays. in the united states, clearance or approval to commercially distribute new medical devices is received from the fda through clearance of a premarket notification 510(k), or 510(k), or through a premarket approval, or pma. the fda may deny 510(k) clearance because, among other reasons, it determines that our product is not substantially equivalent to another u.s. legally marketed device. the fda may deny a pma because, among other reasons, it determines that our product is not sufficiently safe or effective. as part of the clearance or approval process, if we intend to sell certain diagnostic tests for home use or for use by laboratories holding a clia certificate of waiver, including most physician office laboratories, we must generally provide data, demonstrating to the fda’s satisfaction, that the criteria for our tests are simple with a low risk of error. failure to obtain fda clearance or approval would preclude commercialization in the u.s. and failure to obtain or maintain clia-waived   23 table of contents status for any product would preclude us from selling that product for home use or to clia-waived laboratories, which could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations. modifications or enhancements that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or that constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, require new 510(k) or pma submissions. we have made modifications to some of our products since receipt of initial 510(k) clearance or pma. with respect to several of these modifications, we filed new 510(k)s describing the modifications and received fda 510(k) clearance. we have made other modifications to some of our products that we believe do not require the submission of new 510(k)s or pmas. the fda may not agree with any of our determinations not to submit a new 510(k) or pma for any of these modifications made to our products. if the fda requires us to submit a new 510(k) or pma for any device modification, we may be prohibited from marketing the modified products until the new submission is cleared or approved by the fda. as long as our san diego facility remains subject to the fda warning letter that we received in october 2012, that facility will be ineligible to receive pma approvals. while no pma submissions are currently pending for that facility and we do not plan any new submissions for that facility in 2014, if we are unable to resolve the warning letter in a timely manner, our ability to gain approval for new or enhanced products could be adversely impacted. we are subject to regulatory approval requirements of the foreign countries in which we sell our products, and these requirements may prevent or delay us from marketing our products in those countries. we are subject to the regulatory approval requirements for each foreign country in which we sell our products. the process for complying with these approval requirements can be lengthy and expensive. any changes in foreign approval requirements and processes may cause us to incur additional costs or lengthen review times of our products. we may not be able to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, and any failure to do so may cause us to incur additional costs or prevent us from marketing our products in foreign countries, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as long as our san diego facility remains subject to the fda warning letter that we received in october 2012, we may be unable to obtain certain export certificates from the fda. some foreign governments require these export certificates in order to market our products in their countries. if we are unable to obtain these certificates, we may be unable to market our products in certain foreign countries. our business is subject to substantial regulatory oversight and our failure to comply with applicable regulations may result in significant costs or, in certain circumstances, the suspension or withdrawal of previously obtained clearances or approvals. our businesses are extensively regulated by the fda and other federal, state and foreign regulatory agencies. these regulations impact many aspects of our operations, including development, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, physician interaction and record-keeping. the fda and foreign regulatory agencies may require post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the performance of approved products or may place conditions on any product approvals that could restrict the commercial applications of those products. the discovery of problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. in addition, in some cases we may sell products or provide services which are reliant on the use or commercial availability of products of third parties, including medical devices, equipment or pharmaceuticals, and regulatory restrictions placed upon any such third-party products could have a material adverse impact on the sales or commercial viability of our related products or services. we are subject to routine inspection by the fda and other agencies for compliance with the quality system regulation and medical device reporting requirements in the united states and other applicable regulations worldwide. our manufacturing facilities and those of our suppliers and distributors also are, or can be, subject to periodic regulatory inspections.   24 table of contents under clia, some of our drug testing laboratories in the united states are required to be certified to meet quality assurance, quality control and personnel standards. laboratories also must undergo proficiency testing and are subject to inspections. our laboratories that perform drug testing on employees of federal government contractors and some other entities are regulated by the united states samhsa, which has established detailed performance and quality standards that laboratories must meet in order to perform this work. portions of our health information solutions business are subject to unique licensing or permit requirements. for example, we may be required to obtain certification to participate in governmental payment programs, such as state or federal medicaid/medicare programs. we may need an operating license in some states, and some states have established certificate of need programs regulating the expansion of healthcare operations. in addition, we believe that some of the health improvement programs offered by our health information solutions are educational in nature, do not constitute the practice of medicine or provision of healthcare and, thus, do not require that we maintain federal or state licenses to provide these services. however, it is possible that federal or state laws regarding the provision of “virtual” or telephonic medicine could be revised or interpreted to include our services, or that other laws may be enacted which require licensure or otherwise relate to our health information solutions. in that event, we may incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations. we are also subject to laws relating to matters such as privacy, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. we may incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products or injunctions against our distribution of products, termination of our service agreements by our customers, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. changes in applicable laws, changes in the interpretation or application of such laws, or any failure to comply with existing or future laws, regulations or standards which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. moreover, new laws may be enacted, or regulatory agencies may impose new or enhanced standards, that would increase our costs, as well as expose us to risks associated with non-compliance. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations that could result in significant liability, require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. we are subject to laws regulating fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. the federal anti-kickback statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as medicare or medicaid. many states have also adopted laws similar to the anti-kickback statute. some of these state prohibitions apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any payer, not only the medicare, medicaid and veterans administration programs. these laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices and related services. other laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. these laws may also be triggered by failure to return identified overpayments to a payer. anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and/or criminal penalties for noncompliance that can be substantial including, in some   25 table of contents instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the united states, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs. furthermore, since we are reimbursed directly by federal healthcare programs for certain goods and services and, given that many of our customers rely on reimbursement from medicare, medicaid and other governmental programs to cover a substantial portion of their expenditures, our exclusion from such programs as a result of a violation of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to rapid change. billing and payment for healthcare services are highly regulated, and the failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations can result in civil or criminal sanctions, including exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs. a portion of our healthcare products and services are paid for by private and governmental third-party payers, such as medicare and medicaid. these third-party payers typically have different and complex billing and documentation requirements that we must satisfy in order to receive payment, and they carefully audit and monitor our compliance with these requirements. we must also comply with numerous other laws applicable to billing and payment for healthcare services, including privacy laws. failure to comply with these requirements may result in non-payment, refunds, exclusion from government healthcare programs, and civil or criminal liabilities, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. in addition, failure by third-party payers to properly process our payment claims in a timely manner could delay our receipt of payment for our products and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. the market for health information solutions is rapidly and continually evolving, and any such changes may impact our health information solutions business. the market for health information solutions is rapidly and continually evolving due to factors such as changes in federal and state regulations and cost reduction pressures. we cannot predict with certainty the future growth rate or the ultimate size of the market. our failure to manage any changes in this market may adversely affect the revenues and results of operations of our health information solutions business. the success of our health information solutions business, including our health improvement programs, depends on a number of factors. these factors include:     •   our ability to differentiate our health information solutions from those of competitors;     •   the extent and timing of the acceptance of our services as a replacement for, or supplement to, traditional managed-care offerings;     •   the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts with customers and their participants, employees or constituents;     •   our ability to devise new and additional products and services beneficial to health plans, employers and states and their respective participants, employees or constituents;     •   our ability to obtain and retain all necessary licenses, permits and regulatory clearances and approvals related to our services and any products used as part of our services, and to deliver effective, reliable and safe services to our customers and their participants, employees or constituents;     •   our ability to achieve, measure and effectively communicate cost savings for our customers through the use of our services; and     •   our ability to obtain, retain and renew contracts with customers and potential customers with favorable pricing as competition increases and to the extent that customers attempt to provide health information solutions themselves.   26 table of contents increasing health insurance premiums and co-payments or high-deductible health plans may cause individuals to forgo health insurance and avoid medical attention, either of which may reduce demand for our products and services. health insurance premiums, co-payments and deductibles have generally increased in recent years. these increases may cause individuals to forgo health insurance, as well as medical attention. this behavior may reduce demand for our point-of-care diagnostic products and also reduce the number of lives managed by our health information solutions, including our health improvement programs. increased unemployment may negatively impact the collectability of uninsured accounts and patient due accounts and/or reduce total health plan populations. some of the contracts for our health information solutions provide reimbursement to us based on total relevant populations managed by health plans. if unemployment rates rise, our revenues under these contracts may be reduced as managed lives may decrease and may also result in a smaller percentage of our patients being covered by an employer health group while a larger percentage are covered by lower paying medicare and medicaid programs. one of the primary collection risks of our health information solutions business’ accounts receivable relates to uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable insurance policy, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and co-payments) remain outstanding. if unemployment rates rise, these uninsured and patient due accounts could increase as a percentage of the health information solutions business’ accounts receivable. deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect the health information solutions business’ collection of accounts receivable, cash flows and results of operations. these financial pressures could have an adverse impact on our business. a portion of our health information solutions fees are contingent upon performance. some of our existing health information solutions agreements contain savings or other guarantees, which provide that our revenues, or a portion of them, are contingent upon projected cost savings or other quality performance measures related to our health information solutions programs. there is no guarantee that we will accurately forecast cost savings and clinical outcome improvements under our health information solutions agreements or meet the performance criteria necessary to recognize potential revenues under the agreements. additionally, untimely, incomplete or inaccurate data from our customers, or flawed analysis of such data, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to recognize revenues. if our costs of providing health information solutions increase, we may not be able to pass these cost increases on to our customers. many of our health information solutions are provided pursuant to long-term contracts that we may be unable to re-negotiate. if our costs increase, we may be unable to increase our prices, which would adversely affect our overall profit margin and net income. demands of third-party payers, cost reduction pressures among our customers and restrictive reimbursement practices may adversely affect our revenues. our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with non-governmental payers, including managed-care plans, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our health information solutions business. our customers continue to face cost reduction pressures that may cause them to curtail their use of, or reimbursement for, health information solutions, to negotiate reduced fees or other concessions or to delay payment. furthermore, the increasing leverage of organized buying groups among non-governmental payers may reduce market prices for our products and services, thereby   27 table of contents reducing our profitability. reductions in price increases or the amounts received from current customers or lower pricing for our services to new customers could have a material adverse effect on the financial position, cash flows and results of operations of our health information solutions business. in addition, the ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payers is critical to the success of our business because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. if we develop a new product but the product is not approved for reimbursement by private and governmental third-party payers, the product may not be successful. domestic and foreign healthcare reforms may further reduce reimbursement levels and adversely affect demand for and profitability of our products and services. these reforms, along with other cost-containment initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financing condition. future reductions in state spending on preventative care programs could reduce our net revenues, net income and cash flows. due to the continued pressure on state budgets, many states are considering, or have enacted, cuts to existing preventative care programs. these cuts have included, or may include, elimination or reduction of coverage for some or all of our preventative care programs. as an example, 2013 funding for the washington state tobacco quit line was cut by 62%, resulting in services being dramatically reduced and supported purely by funding from the centers for disease control, or cdc. we also understand that the cdc may delay its 2014 funding allocations to state agencies that provide our smoking cessation programs. during 2013, approximately 58% of the net revenue of our alere wellbeing business was derived from sales to state governments. continued state budgetary pressures could lead to further reductions in funding for our services which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. in addition, some states may reduce current spending on preventative care programs in order to conserve funds for use in anticipated future programs, which may or may not occur. for example, the cdc conducted successful anti-smoking campaigns in 2012 and 2013 and recently launched its 2014 campaign. we believe that, in anticipation of that ongoing campaign, many states are reducing spending on tobacco cessation programs so that they will have funds available to spend in conjunction with the cdc’s expected campaign. if the cdc cancels, delays or substantially modifies its annual campaign plans, if states do not spend the expected funds in conjunction with that campaign, or if tobacco users are reluctant to respond to the campaign, funding for our services could be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. we are also watching closely the impact the aca has on state funding of our smoking cessation programs. as states perceive that more individuals are ‘insured’, and therefore would be less likely to participate in state funded smoking cessation programs, states may take the position that state funding of smoking cessation programs is no longer needed or is no longer economical. our data management and information technology systems are critical to maintaining and growing our business. our business, particularly our health information solutions business, is dependent on the effective use of information technology and, consequently, technology failure or obsolescence may negatively impact our business. in addition, data acquisition, data quality control, data privacy, data security and data analysis, which are a cornerstone of our health information solutions programs, are intense and complex processes subject to error. untimely, incomplete or inaccurate data, flawed analysis of data or our inability to properly integrate, implement, protect and update systems could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. in particular, we are relying on our integrated care management system, our health information exchange and our clinical decision-   28 table of contents support software to provide the framework and supporting infrastructure for significantly enhanced future health information solutions programs and to provide a competitive advantage. these systems and software are relatively new and may not provide these expected benefits or meet our needs or the needs of our customers or program participants. we expect that we will need to continue to improve and further integrate our information technology systems on an ongoing basis in order to effectively run our business. if we fail to successfully manage our information technology systems, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our ability to protect our information systems and electronic transmissions of sensitive data from data corruption, cyber-based attacks, security breaches or privacy violations is critical to the success of our business. we are highly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to securely process, transmit and store electronic information, including personal information of our customers. security breaches of this infrastructure, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, malware attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can cause all or portions of our websites to be unavailable, create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. we invest in security technology to protect our data against risks of data security breaches and cyber-attacks and we have implemented solutions, processes, and procedures to help mitigate these risks, such as encryption, virus protection, security firewalls and comprehensive information security and privacy policies. however, despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. the age of our information technology systems, as well as the level of our protection and business continuity or disaster recovery capability, varies from site to site, and there can be no guarantee that any such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. in addition, a security breach or privacy violation that leads to disclosure of consumer information (including personally identifiable information or protected health information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate state breach notification laws and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. if we are unable to prevent further security breaches or privacy violations or implement satisfactory remedial measures, our operations could be disrupted, we may be subject to legal claims or proceedings, or we may suffer loss of reputation, financial loss and other regulatory penalties because of lost or misappropriated information, including sensitive consumer data, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see item 3 “legal proceedings.” while we currently expend resources to protect against cyber-attacks and security breaches, we may need to expend additional resources in the future to continue to protect against potential security breaches or to address problems caused by such attacks or any breach of our safeguards. in addition, a data security breach could distract management or other key personnel from performing their primary operational duties. in addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the united states, europe and elsewhere are often uncertain, contradictory and in flux. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, this could result in government-imposed fines or orders requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business. complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. our growth is subject to global economic and political conditions, and operational disruptions at our facilities. our business is affected by global economic conditions and the state of the financial markets. there can be no assurance that global economic conditions and financial markets will not worsen and   29 table of contents that we will not experience any adverse effects that may be material to our consolidated cash flows, results of operations, financial positions or our ability to access capital, such as the adverse effects resulting from a prolonged shutdown in government operations in both the united states and internationally. our business is also affected by local economic conditions, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. political changes, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. poor economic conditions may negatively impact our toxicology business. the high rates of unemployment that have recently affected the united states and other countries negatively impact the demand for pre-employment drug testing. additionally, reduced government funding for drug screening programs negatively impacts the market for our toxicology tests. finally, a portion of our domestic laboratory testing services is reimbursed by medicare and private payers and is subject to continued downward price pressure. if any, or all, of these trends continue or accelerate, they may have a material adverse impact on the results of our toxicology business operations. if we deliver products with defects, we may be subject to product recalls or negative publicity, our credibility may be harmed, market acceptance of our products may decrease and we may be exposed to liability. the manufacturing and marketing of professional and consumer diagnostics involve an inherent risk of product liability claims. for example, a defect in one of our diagnostic products could lead to a false positive or false negative result, affecting the eventual diagnosis. our product development and production are extremely complex and could expose our products to defects. manufacturing and design defects could lead to recalls (either voluntary or required by the fda or other government authorities) and could result in the removal of a product from the market. defects in our products could also harm our reputation, lead to negative publicity and decrease sales of our products. in addition, our marketing of monitoring services may cause us to be subjected to various product liability or other claims, including, among others, claims that inaccurate monitoring results lead to injury or death, or, in the case of our toxicology monitoring services, the imposition of criminal sanctions. any product liability or other claim brought against us, regardless of merit, could be costly to defend and could result in an increase to our insurance premiums. if we are held liable for a claim, that claim could materially damage our business and financial condition. we may experience manufacturing problems or delays due to, among other reasons, our volume and specialized processes, which could result in decreased revenue or increased costs. the global supply of our products depends on the uninterrupted efficient operation of our manufacturing facilities. many of our manufacturing processes are complex and involve sensitive scientific processes, including unique and often proprietary antibodies which cannot be replicated or acquired through alternative sources without undue delay or expense. other processes present difficult technical challenges to obtain the manufacturing yields necessary to operate profitably. in addition, our manufacturing processes may require complex and specialized equipment which can be expensive to repair or replace with required lead times of up to a year. the manufacturing of certain of our products is concentrated in one or more of our plants, with limited alternate facilities. any event that negatively impacts our manufacturing facilities, our manufacturing systems or equipment, or our contract manufacturers or suppliers could delay or suspend shipments of products or the release of new products or could result in the delivery of inferior products. our revenues from the affected products would decline and we could incur losses until such time as we or our contract manufacturers are able to restore our or their production processes or we are able to put in place alternative contract manufacturers or suppliers.   30 table of contents we rely on suppliers for raw materials and other products and services, and fluctuations in the availability and price of such products and services may adversely affect our business or results of operations. we rely on numerous third parties to supply raw materials and other components for our manufacturing processes. in some cases, these raw materials and components are available only from a sole supplier. we also rely on a number of significant third-party manufacturers to produce some of our professional diagnostics products. stringent requirements of the fda and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products may prevent us from quickly establishing additional or replacement sources for the raw materials, components or manufacturing services that we use or from doing so without excessive cost. as a result, a reduction or interruption in supply or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials, components or manufacturing services could have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations, financial condition and cash flows. compliance with the sec’s new conflict minerals rules will increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to the sec’s new disclosure requirements for public companies that manufacture, or contract to manufacture, products for which certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as “conflict minerals,” are necessary to the functionality or production of those products. these regulations require us to determine which of our products contain conflict minerals and, if so, to perform an extensive inquiry into our supply chain in an effort to determine whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo, or drc, or an adjoining country. we have incurred and expect to incur further additional costs to comply with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. because our supply chain is complex, the country of origin inquiry and due diligence procedures that we have implemented may not enable us to ascertain the origins of any conflict minerals that we use or determine that these minerals did not originate from the drc or an adjoining country, which may harm our reputation. we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as drc conflict-free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and lead to a loss of revenue. these new requirements could also have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. we could suffer monetary damages, incur substantial costs or be prevented from using technologies important to our products as a result of pending legal proceedings. we are involved in various legal proceedings arising out of our business. because of the nature of our business, we may be subject at any particular time to commercial disputes, product liability claims, negligence claims or various other lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of our business, including infringement and other licensing and intellectual property claims, distributor disputes, privacy claims, employment matters or investor matters. the lawsuits we face generally seek damages, sometimes in substantial amounts, for commercial or personal injuries allegedly suffered and can include claims for punitive or other special damages. an adverse ruling or rulings in one or more such lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, substantially harm our sales, operations or financial performance.   31 table of contents the rights we rely upon to protect the intellectual property underlying our products may not be adequate to prevent third parties from using our technology, which would reduce a competitive advantage provided by our proprietary technology. our success depends in part on our ability to develop or acquire commercially valuable intellectual property rights and to enforce those rights. the degree of present and future protection for our intellectual property is uncertain and may change. the risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other proprietary rights include the following:     •   pending patent applications we have filed, or to which we have exclusive rights, may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents;     •   patents licensed or issued to us or our customers may not provide a competitive advantage;     •   other parties may challenge patents or patent applications licensed or issued to us or our customers;     •   other companies may design around technologies we have patented, licensed or developed; and     •   all patents have a limited life, meaning at some point valuable patents will expire and we will lose the competitive advantage they provide. for example, certain patents related to our lateral flow technology expire in 2014 and 2015. in addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. if these measures do not protect our rights, third parties could access our technology and our competitive advantage in the market would be reduced. in addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. we also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection or prosecute potential infringements of our patents. our trade secrets may also become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors or customers may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or design around our proprietary technologies. claims by others that our products infringe their proprietary rights could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services and could increase our costs. substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the professional and consumer diagnostics industries and in the health information solutions marketplace. we expect that our products and services could be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number and functionality of our products grow and as we enter new and different industries and markets. third parties may have or obtain patents which our products and services or technology may actually or allegedly infringe. any of these third parties might assert infringement claims against us. any litigation could result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and resources. in addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement may result in negative publicity, have an impact on prospective customers, cause product delays, or require us to develop alternative technologies, make substantial payments to third parties or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. if a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license rights to the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, we may be forced to stop selling current products or abandon new products under development and we could be exposed to legal actions by our customers.   32 table of contents we may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights, which would reduce our ability to compete. in order to protect or enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights, we may initiate litigation or other proceedings against, or enter into negotiations or settlement discussions with, third parties. litigation may be necessary to:     •   assert claims of infringement;     •   enforce licensing terms and conditions;     •   protect our trade secrets or know-how; or     •   determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of ourselves or others. we have initiated a number of lawsuits against competitors whom we believe to be selling products that infringe our proprietary rights. these lawsuits and any other lawsuits that we initiate in the future could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. litigation can also put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. intellectual property law relating to the fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent and other intellectual property positions in our industry are subject to change and often uncertain. we may not prevail in any of these suits or other efforts to protect our technology, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. during the course of these suits, there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. if securities analysts or investors perceive any of these results to be negative, the trading prices of our securities may decline. our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of the risks associated with acquisitions. since our inception, we acquired numerous businesses, including axis-shield in 2011, escreen in 2012 and epocal in 2013. while our business strategy no longer focuses on acquisitions, we may acquire other businesses in the future. the ultimate success of our acquisitions depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating acquired businesses or assets into our existing businesses. however, the acquisition and successful integration of independent businesses or assets is a complex, costly and time-consuming process, and the benefits we realize may not exceed the costs of the acquisition. the risk and difficulties associated with acquiring and integrating companies and other assets include, among others:     •   the impact of the acquisition on our financial and strategic position and reputation;     •   consolidating manufacturing, research and development operations, quality systems and health information or other technology platforms, where appropriate;     •   integrating newly-acquired businesses or product lines into a uniform financial reporting system;     •   coordinating sales, distribution and marketing functions and strategies, including the integration of our current health information solutions products and services;     •   establishing or expanding manufacturing, sales, distribution and marketing functions in order to accommodate newly-acquired businesses or product lines or rationalizing these functions to take advantage of synergies;     •   preserving the important licensing, research and development, manufacturing and supply, distribution, marketing, customer and other relationships of acquired businesses;   33 table of contents   •   minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns;     •   the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business;     •   coordinating geographically separate operations; and     •   regulatory and legal issues relating to the integration of legacy and newly-acquired businesses. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, and managing multiple acquisitions or investments at the same time could exacerbate these risks. to the extent that we issue equity securities in connection with any acquisition or investment, existing shareholders may experience dilution. our acquisitions have often provided for future contingent payments, or earn-outs, based on the achievement of performance targets or milestones. these arrangements can impact or restrict integration of acquired businesses and can result in disputes, including litigation. additionally, regardless of the form of consideration we pay, acquisitions and investments could negatively impact our net income and earnings per share. if goodwill or other intangible assets that we have recorded in connection with our acquisitions of other businesses become impaired, we could have to take significant charges against earnings. as a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded, and may continue to record, a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other intangible assets has been impaired. for example, during the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2010, we determined that our goodwill related to our health information solutions business was impaired, resulting in non-cash impairment charges in the amount of approximately $383.6 million and $1.0 billion, respectively. any further reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in additional charges against earnings, which could materially reduce our reported results of operations in future periods. we do not have complete control over the operations of spd, our 50/50 joint venture with p&g. because spd is a 50/50 joint venture, we do not have complete control over its operations, including business decisions, which may impact spd’s profitability. additionally, certain subsidiaries of p&g have the right, at any time upon certain material breaches by us or our subsidiaries of our obligations under the joint venture documents, to acquire all of our interest in spd at fair market value less any applicable damages. our business has substantial indebtedness. we currently have, and will likely continue to have, a substantial amount of indebtedness. our indebtedness could, among other things, make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations, require us to use a large portion of our cash flow from operations to repay and service our debt or otherwise create liquidity problems, limit our flexibility to adjust to market conditions, place us at a competitive disadvantage and expose us to interest rate fluctuations. as of december 31, 2013, we had total debt outstanding of approximately $3.8 billion, which included approximately $2.3 billion in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding under our secured credit facility, consisting of “a” term loans (including “delayed draw” term loans) in the aggregate principal amount of $832.2 million, “b” term loans in the aggregate principal amount of $904.2 million, “incremental b-1” term loans in the aggregate principal amount of $245.0 million, “incremental b-2” term loans in the aggregate principal amount of $195.1 million and revolving credit loans in the aggregate principal amount of $170.0 million. our secured credit facility has various final maturity dates occurring in 2016 and 2017, but if any of our 3% convertible senior subordinated notes remain outstanding on the date that is six months prior to the maturity date thereof, our secured credit facility will mature on such prior date. at   34 table of contents december 31, 2013, we also had an aggregate of approximately $1.3 billion in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding under our 7.25% senior notes and our 8.625% and 6.5% senior subordinated notes, all of which mature in 2018 or 2020, as well as $150.0 million in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding under our 3% convertible senior subordinated notes, which matures in 2016. we expect to obtain the money to pay our expenses and pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness from cash flow from our operations and potentially from other debt or equity offerings. accordingly, our ability to meet our obligations depends on our future performance and capital raising activities, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our cash flow and capital resources prove inadequate to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations, restructure or refinance our debt, which we may be unable to do on acceptable terms, and forego attractive business opportunities. in addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives. the agreements governing our indebtedness subject us to various restrictions that may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. the agreements governing our indebtedness subject us to various restrictions on our ability to engage in certain activities, including, among other things, our ability to:     •   acquire other businesses or make investments;     •   raise additional capital;     •   incur additional debt or create liens on our assets;     •   pay dividends or make distributions or repurchase or redeem our stock or senior or subordinated debt;     •   prepay indebtedness; and     •   consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. these restrictions may limit or restrict our cash flow and our ability to pursue business opportunities or strategies that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. our secured credit facility contains certain financial and other restrictive covenants that we may not satisfy, and that, if not satisfied, could result in the acceleration of the amounts due under our secured credit facility and the limitation of our ability to borrow additional funds in the future. the agreements governing our secured credit facility subject us to various financial and other restrictive covenants with which we must comply on an ongoing or periodic basis. these include covenants pertaining to maximum consolidated secured leverage ratios, minimum consolidated interest coverage ratios and limits on capital expenditures. if we violate any of these covenants, we may suffer a material adverse effect. most notably, our outstanding debt under our secured credit facility could become immediately due and payable, our lenders could proceed against any collateral securing such indebtedness, and our ability to borrow additional funds in the future could be limited or terminated. alternatively, we could be forced to refinance or renegotiate the terms and conditions of our secured credit facility, including the interest rates, financial and restrictive covenants and security requirements of the secured credit facility, on terms that may be significantly less favorable to us.   35 table of contents a default under any of the agreements governing our indebtedness could result in a default and acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement could result in a default and acceleration of our repayment obligations under other agreements. if a cross-default were to occur, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. even if new financing were available, it may not be available on acceptable terms. if some or all of our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we may not be able to satisfy our debt obligations upon a change of control or fundamental change, which could limit our opportunity to enter into a change of control or fundamental change transaction. if we undergo a change of control, as provided in our secured credit facility, our 7.25% senior notes, our 8.625% senior subordinated notes or our 6.5% senior subordinated notes, or a fundamental change or termination of trading, as provided in the 3% convertible senior subordinated notes, we may be required to repay or repurchase some or all of such indebtedness. we may not have sufficient financial resources to satisfy all of our repayment and repurchase obligations. our failure to purchase notes as required under our 7.25% senior notes, our 8.625% senior subordinated notes, our 6.5% senior subordinated notes or our 3% convertible senior subordinated notes would constitute a default under the relevant indentures and under our secured credit facility and could have material adverse consequences for us and our stakeholders. our operating results may fluctuate for various reasons and, as a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations will not necessarily be meaningful. many factors relating to our business, such as those described elsewhere in this section, make our future operating results uncertain and may cause them to fluctuate from period to period. because our revenue and operating results are difficult to predict, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indicator of our future performance. if revenue declines in a quarter, our results of operations will be harmed because many of our expenses are relatively fixed. in particular, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses are not significantly affected by variations in revenue. if our quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. our effective tax rate may fluctuate, and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of amounts that have been accrued. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and we may take certain income tax positions on our tax returns that tax authorities may disagree with. we provide reserves for potential payments of tax to various tax authorities related to uncertain tax positions. however, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves the application of complex tax regulations to our global operations in many jurisdictions. therefore, a dispute with a tax authority may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities associated with our returns. changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. there are several proposals to reform u.s. tax rules being considered by u.s. law makers, including proposals that may reduce or eliminate the deferral of u.s. income tax on our unrepatriated earnings, potentially requiring those earnings to be taxed at the u.s. federal income tax rate, reduce or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminate various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the u.s. our future reported financial results may be adversely affected by tax rule changes which restrict or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits or deduct expenses attributable to foreign earnings, or otherwise affect the treatment of our unrepatriated earnings.   36 table of contents we may incur losses in excess of our insurance coverage. our insurance coverage includes product liability, property, healthcare professional and business interruption policies. our insurance coverage contains policy limits, specifications and exclusions. we believe that our insurance coverage is consistent with general practices within our industry. nonetheless, we may incur losses of a type for which we are not covered by insurance or which exceed the limits of liability of our insurance policies. in that event, we could experience a significant loss which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition. our future success depends on our ability to recruit and retain key personnel. our future success depends on our continued ability to attract, hire and retain highly qualified personnel, including our executive officers and scientific, technical, sales and marketing employees, and their ability to manage growth successfully. experienced personnel in our industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business may be harmed. in addition, the loss of any of our key personnel, particularly key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our research and development, operation or strategic objectives. future sales of our common stock, including shares issuable upon conversion of our series b convertible perpetual preferred stock, or series b preferred stock, or our 3% convertible senior subordinated notes, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities in the public market could depress the price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. the price of our common stock could be affected by possible sales of the substantial number of shares of our common stock potentially issuable upon conversion of our series b preferred stock or our 3% convertible senior subordinated notes and by other hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving our common stock. if the conditions applicable to the conversion of our series b preferred stock were satisfied, then subject to adjustment, each of the approximately 1.8 million shares of series b preferred stock outstanding as of december 31, 2013 could convert into 5.7703 shares of our common stock, or approximately 10.2 million shares of our common stock. upon certain extraordinary transactions, depending on the market price of our common stock at that time, the conversion rate could increase such that significantly more shares of common stock could be issued. our $150.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 3% convertible senior subordinated notes is convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of approximately $43.98 per share, or approximately 3.4 million shares. the holders of our series b preferred stock are entitled to receive liquidation payments in preference to the holders of our common stock. as of december 31, 2013, the outstanding shares of our series b preferred stock had an aggregate stated liquidation preference of approximately $709.8 million. dividends accrue on the shares of series b preferred stock at a rate of 3% per annum, and we have the option to pay these dividends in cash or in shares of common stock or additional shares of series b preferred stock. if we pay these dividends in shares of common stock or additional shares of series b preferred stock, the number of shares of common stock or series b preferred stock issued will be based upon market prices at the time of such payment. upon a liquidation of our company, the holders of shares of series b preferred stock will be entitled to receive a liquidation payment prior to the payment of any amount with respect to the shares of our common stock. the amount of this preferential liquidation payment is the aggregate stated liquidation preference, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. because of the substantial liquidation preference to which the holders of the series b preferred stock are entitled, the amount available to be distributed to the holders of our common stock upon a liquidation of our company could be substantially limited or reduced to zero.   37 table of contents the terms of the series b preferred stock may limit our ability to raise additional capital through subsequent issuances of preferred stock. for so long as any shares of series b preferred stock remain outstanding, we are not permitted, without the affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the series b preferred stock then outstanding, to authorize or designate any class or series of capital stock having rights on liquidation or as to distributions (including dividends) senior to the series b preferred stock. this restriction could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may limit the ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, which may not be in your best interests. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. these provisions include the following:     •   although we have amended our certificate of incorporation to declassify our board of directors, under delaware law 3 continuing directors have terms ending in 2015. by preventing stockholders from voting on the election of all of our directors at our annual meetings of stockholders in 2014, the longer terms of these continuing directors may have the effect of keeping the current members of our board of directors in control for a longer period of time than stockholders may desire; and     •   subject to the rights of the holders of our series b preferred stock, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock issued, which would allow the board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or change in control. in addition, our board of directors may in the future adopt other protective measures, such as a stockholder rights plan, which could delay, deter or prevent a change in control. item 1b.    unresolved