item 1a. risk factors. our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects are subject to a variety of significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. the following is a description of some of the important risk factors that may cause our actual results in future periods to differ substantially from those we currently expect or seek. the factors described below may not be the only risks that we face. additional risks that we have not yet identified or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, operating results, financial conditions, and prospects. factors that adversely affect the financial condition of the health care industry, in which our business is principally focused, could have a negative impact on us. we derive most of our revenue from members in the health care industry. as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations could be adversely affected by conditions affecting the health care industry generally and hospitals and health systems in particular. our ability to grow will depend upon the economic environment of the health care industry as well as our ability to increase the number of programs and services that we sell to our members. there are many factors that could affect the purchasing practices, operations, and, ultimately, the operating funds of health care organizations, such as reimbursement policies for health care expenses, consolidation in the health care industry, and regulation, litigation, and general economic conditions. because of current macro-economic conditions, many health care delivery organizations continue to experience deteriorating cash flow, access to credit, and budgets. it is unclear what long-term effects general economic conditions will have on the health care industry and in turn on us. the health care industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory, and other influences. existing and new federal and state laws and regulations affecting the health care industry could create unexpected liabilities for us, could cause us or our members to incur additional costs, and could restrict our or our members’ operations. many health care laws are complex and their application to us, our members, or the specific services and relationships we have with our members is not always clear. in addition, federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the u.s. health care system at both the federal and state level, such as the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010. due to the significant implementation issues arising under these laws, it is unclear what long-term effects they will have on the health care industry and in turn on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. among other effects, we could be required to make unplanned modifications of our products and services or could suffer delays or cancellations of orders or reductions in demand for our products and services as a result of changes in regulations affecting the health care industry, such as any increased regulation by governmental agencies of the purchase and sale of medical products, changes to the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1995, and the regulations that have been issued under it, which we refer to collectively as "hipaa," and other federal or state privacy laws, laws relating to the tax-exempt status of many of our members, or restrictions on permissible discounts and other financial arrangements. our failure to anticipate accurately the application of these laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with them, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity, and negatively affect our business. our revenue and results of operations may suffer if we are unable to sustain high renewal rates on our memberships. we derive most of our revenue from renewable memberships in our discrete annual programs. our prospects therefore depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high renewal rates on existing programs. our success in securing renewals depends upon the continuity of our principal contacts at a member organization, our members’ budgetary environment, and our ability to deliver consistent, reliable, high-quality, and timely research, tools, and analysis with respect to issues, developments, and trends that members view as important. we may not be able to sustain the level of performance necessary to achieve a high rate of renewals and, as a result, may not increase our revenue or even maintain our current revenue levels. if we are unable to maintain our reputation and expand our name recognition, we may have difficulty attracting new business and retaining current members. our professional reputation is an important factor in attracting and retaining our members and in building relationships with the progressive health care and education organizations that supply many of the best practices we feature in our research. we believe that establishing and maintaining a good reputation and name recognition are critical for attracting and retaining members. promotion and enhancement of our reputation will depend largely on our success in continuing to provide effective solutions. our brand name and reputation will suffer, and our ability to attract new members or retain existing members could be adversely affected, if members do not perceive our solutions to be effective or of high quality or if there inaccuracies or defects in our solutions. 11 table of contents if we are not able to offer new and valuable products and services, our business may suffer. our ability to increase our revenue depends on our ability to develop new products and services that serve specific constituencies, to anticipate changing market trends, and to adapt our research, tools, and analysis to meet the changing needs of our members. we may not be able to provide helpful and timely research and analysis of developments and trends in a manner that meets market needs. any such failure could cause some of our existing products and services to become obsolete, particularly in the health care industry, where needs continue to evolve rapidly with the introduction of new technology and the obsolescence of old technology, changing payment systems and regulatory requirements, shifting strategies and market positions of major industry participants, and changing objectives and expectations of health care consumers. this environment of rapid and continuous change presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our members with timely research, business intelligence and software tools, and consulting and management services for issues and topics of importance. as a result, we must continue to invest resources in development of new programs and services in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services that will appeal to members and potential members. many of our member relationships are non-exclusive or terminable after a specified term. if our new or modified product and service innovations are not responsive to user preferences or industry or regulatory changes, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, or are not effectively brought to market, we may lose existing members, be unable to obtain new members, or incur impairment of capitalized software development assets. because our programs offer a standardized set of services that allows us to spread our largely fixed program cost structure across our membership base of participating organizations, we may lose money on or terminate a program if we are unable to attract or retain a sufficient number of members in that program to cover our costs. terminating a program could adversely affect our business by causing dissatisfaction among members of the terminated program and impairing our reputation with current and potential members. competition may adversely affect our business. any failure by us adequately to identify, understand, or address competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business. we compete in discrete programs and for discretionary dollars against health care-focused, higher education-focused, and multi-industry firms. these include consulting and strategy firms; market research, data, benchmarking and forecasting providers; technology vendors and services firms; health care information technology firms; technology advisory firms; and specialized providers of educational and training services. other entities, such as state and national trade associations, group purchasing organizations, non-profit think-tanks, and database companies, may also offer research, consulting, tools, and education services to health care and education organizations that are competitive with our programs. we compete on the basis of several factors, including breadth, depth and quality of product and service offerings, ability to deliver clinical, financial and operational performance improvement through the use of products and services, quality and reliability of services, ease of use and convenience, brand recognition and the ability to integrate services with existing technology. some of our competitors are more established, benefit from greater name recognition, have larger member bases and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. other of our competitors have proprietary technology that differentiates their product and service offerings from ours. as a result of these competitive advantages, our competitors and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly to market forces, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands, products and services, and make more attractive offers to our members. we also compete on the basis of price. we may be subject to pricing pressures as a result of, among other things, competition within the industry, consolidation of healthcare industry participants, practices of managed care organizations, government action affecting reimbursement and financial stress experienced by our members. if our pricing experiences significant downward pressure, our business will be less profitable and our results of operations will be adversely affected. we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our current members or expand our member base in this competitive environment. if we do not retain current members or expand our member base, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. moreover, we expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation in both the healthcare information technology and healthcare industries. if one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could also adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our prospects will suffer if we are not able to hire, train, motivate, manage, and retain a significant number of highly skilled employees. our future success depends upon our ability to hire, train, motivate, manage, and retain a significant number of highly skilled employees, particularly research analysts, technical experts, and sales and marketing staff. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competition for professional personnel from management consulting firms and other 12 table of contents producers of research, technology, and analysis services. hiring, training, motivating, managing, and retaining employees with the skills we need is time-consuming and expensive. any failure by us to address our staffing needs in an effective manner could hinder our ability to continue to provide high-quality products and services, implement tools, complete existing member engagements, or attract new members. unsuccessful design or implementation of our software may harm our future financial results. software development and implementation can take long periods of time and require significant capital investments. if our business intelligence and software tools are less effective, cost-efficient, or attractive to our members than they anticipate or do not function as expected or designed, we may not recover the development costs, and our competitive position, operations, or financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, any defects in our business intelligence and software tools or other intellectual property could result in additional development costs, the diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, significant cost to resolve the defect, loss of members, harm to our reputation, risk of nonpayment, loss of revenue, and exposure to liability claims. we also rely on technology and implementation support provided by others in certain of our programs that offer business intelligence and software tools. our business could be harmed by defects in this technology or by the failure of third parties to provide timely and accurate services. some of our products and services are complex and require significant work to implement. if the member implementation process is not executed successfully or if execution is delayed, our relationships with some of our members may be adversely impacted, and our results of operations may be negatively affected. in addition, cancellation of any of our products and services after implementation has begun may involve loss to us of time, effort, and resources invested in the canceled implementation as well as lost opportunity for acquiring other members over the same period. we may experience significant delays in generating, or an inability to generate, revenue if potential members take a long time to evaluate our products and services. a key element of our strategy is to market our products and services directly to health care providers, such as health systems and acute care hospitals, and education institutions, such as colleges and research universities, to increase the number of our products and services utilized by existing members. if we are unable to sell additional products and services to existing hospital, health system, and education members, or enter into and maintain favorable relationships with other health care providers or education organizations, our ability to increase our revenue could be materially adversely affected. we do not control many of the factors that will influence the decisions of these organizations regarding the purchase of our products and services. the evaluation process can sometimes be lengthy and involve significant technical evaluation and commitment of personnel by these organizations. the use of our products and services may also be delayed due to reluctance to change or modify existing procedures. unsuccessful delivery of our consulting and management services may harm our future financial success. several of our programs provide strategic and operational support to our member institutions to help them achieve key clinical quality and financial performance goals, as well as, to accelerate the implementation of best practices profiled in our research studies. if the member delivery process is not executed successfully or if execution is delayed, our relationships with some of our members and our results of operations may be negatively affected. we also are subject to loss of revenue arising from the fact that these consulting and management memberships are not individually renewable. to maintain our annual revenue and contract value from these programs, we will have to enroll new members each year as other members complete their program terms. we may not be successful in selling these programs in the future as a result of lack of continued market acceptance of the programs or other factors. federal and state privacy and security laws may increase the costs of operation and expose us to civil and criminal sanctions. we must comply with extensive federal and state requirements regarding the use, disclosure, retention, and security of patient health care information. failure by us to comply with any of the applicable federal and state laws regarding patient privacy, identity theft prevention and detection, breach notification, and data security may subject us to penalties, including civil monetary penalties and, in some circumstances, criminal penalties and/or contractual liability under our agreements with our members. in addition, such failure may harm our reputation and adversely affect our ability to retain existing members and attract new members. the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (or the “hitech act,” which was enacted as part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009), and the implementing regulations that have been issued under these statutes contain substantial restrictions and requirements with respect to the use and disclosure of individuals’ protected health information. these restrictions and 13 table of contents requirements are set forth in the privacy rule and security rule portions of hipaa. the hipaa privacy rule prohibits a covered entity from using or disclosing an individual’s protected health information unless the use or disclosure is authorized by the individual or is specifically required or permitted under the privacy rule and requires covered entities to provide individuals with certain rights with respect to their protected health information. the privacy rule imposes a complex system of requirements on covered entities for complying with these basic standards. under the hipaa security rule, covered entities must establish administrative, physical, and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of electronic protected health information maintained or transmitted by them or by others on their behalf. the hipaa privacy and security rules have historically applied directly to covered entities, such as our members who are health care providers that engage in hipaa-defined standard electronic transactions or health plans. because some of our members disclose protected health information to us so that we may use that information to provide certain services to them, we are a “business associate” of those members. to provide members with services that involve the use or disclosure of protected health information, the hipaa privacy and security rules require us to enter into business associate agreements with our members. such agreements must, among other things, provide adequate written assurances: • as to how we will use and disclose the protected health information; • that we will implement reasonable administrative, physical, and technical safeguards to protect such information from misuse; • that we will enter into similar agreements with our agents and subcontractors that have access to the information; • that we will report security incidents and other inappropriate uses or disclosures of the information; and • that we will assist the covered entity with certain of its duties under the privacy rule. in february 2009, the u.s. congress enacted the hitech act. on january 25, 2013, the united states department of health and human services, office for civil rights published a final rule modifying the hipaa privacy, security, enforcement, and breach notification rules, which are referred to as the “final hipaa omnibus rule,” that implemented many of the provisions of the hitech act. under the final hipaa omnibus rule, the privacy and security requirements of hipaa have been modified and expanded. the final hipaa omnibus rule applies certain of the hipaa privacy and security requirements directly to business associates of covered entities. we must now directly comply with certain aspects of the privacy and security rules, and are also subject to enforcement for a violation of hipaa. the final hipaa omnibus rule also imposes mandatory federal requirements for both covered entities and business associates regarding notification of breaches of unsecured protected health information. the final hipaa omnibus rule became effective on march 26, 2013, and covered entities and business associates were required to comply with it by september 23, 2013. any failure or perception of failure of our products or services to meet hipaa and related regulatory requirements could expose us to risks of investigation, notification, litigation, penalty, and/or enforcement, could adversely affect demand for our products and services, and force us to expend significant capital and other resources to modify our products or services to address the privacy and security requirements of our members and hipaa. in addition to our obligations under hipaa, most states have enacted patient confidentiality laws that protect against the disclosure of confidential medical information, and many states have adopted or are considering adopting further legislation in this area, including privacy safeguards, security standards, and data security breach notification requirements. we may be required to comply with these state laws, if they are more stringent than hipaa requirements and therefore not preempted by the federal requirements. we are unable to predict what changes to hipaa or other federal or state laws or regulations might be made in the future or how those changes could affect our business, products, services, or the associated costs of compliance. federal or state governmental authorities may impose additional data security standards or additional privacy or other restrictions on the collection, use, transmission, and other disclosures of health information that would limit, forbid, or regulate the use or transmission of health information pertaining to u.s. patients outside of the united states. such legislation, if adopted, could render operations outside of the united states impracticable or substantially more expensive. in addition, although most of our business is conducted in the united states, some of our businesses and operations are international in nature and are consequently subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct those operations. we may be obligated to comply with these regulatory regimes, which include, among other matters, privacy and data protection regulations (including requirements for cross-border data transfers) that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. 14 table of contents we or our members or other third parties with whom we conduct business may experience difficulties in complying with or interpreting federal regulations governing certain electronic transactions, which may negatively affect our service levels or result in enforcement actions against us. hipaa and its implementing regulations mandate format, data content, and provider identifier standards that must be used in certain electronic transactions, such as claims, payment advice, and eligibility inquiries. although our systems are capable of transmitting transactions that comply with these requirements, some members or other third parties with whom we conduct business may interpret hipaa transaction requirements differently than we do or may require us to use legacy formats or include legacy identifiers as they make the transition to full compliance. in cases where members or other third parties require conformity with their interpretations or require us to accommodate legacy transactions or identifiers as a condition of successful transactions, we may attempt to comply with their requirements, but may be subject to enforcement actions as a result. we are actively working to modify our systems for the implementation of updated standard code sets for diagnoses and procedures that are currently scheduled to take full effect in october 2015. we may not be successful in responding to the new requirements and any changes that we make to our transactions and software may result in errors or otherwise negatively affect our service levels. we may also experience complications in supporting clients that have not fully complied with the revised requirements as of the applicable compliance date. we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm, and other serious negative consequences if we sustain cyber attacks or other data security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our members or other third parties. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. we may be subject to breaches of the information technology systems we use for these purposes. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber incident could be significant. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential members that may impede our critical functions. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our members or other third parties could expose us, our members, or other third parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we rely in certain limited capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. our business could be harmed by disruptions in service or operational or security failures at our data centers or at other service provider locations related to the storage, transmission, and presentation of member data. our data centers and service provider locations store and transmit critical member data that is essential to our business. while these locations are chosen for their stability, failover capabilities, and system controls, we do not directly control the continued or uninterrupted availability of every location. interruptions in service or damage to locations may be caused by natural disasters, power loss, internet or network failures, operator error, security breaches, computer viruses, denial-of-service, attacks, or similar events, and could result in service interruptions, delays in access, or the destruction of data. disaster recovery, data backups, and business continuity planning address many of these possible service interruptions, but the varied types and severity of the interruptions that could occur may render our safeguards inadequate. these service interruption events could impair our ability to deliver services or deliverables or cause us to miss service level agreements in our agreements with our members, which could negatively affect our ability to retain existing members and attract new members. we may be liable to our members and may lose members if we are unable to collect and maintain member data or if we lose member data. because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage from our members and other third parties and the increasing use of technology in our programs, hardware failures or errors in our processes or systems could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our members regard as significant. further, our ability to collect and report data may be interrupted or limited by a number of factors, including the failure of our network, software systems, or business intelligence tools, or the terms of our members’ contracts with their third- 15 table of contents party suppliers. in addition, computer viruses may harm our systems, causing us to lose data, and the transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation. in addition to potential liability, if we supply inaccurate information or experience interruptions in our ability to capture, store, supply, utilize, and report information, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose existing members and experience difficulties in attracting new members. failure by our members to obtain proper permissions and waivers for use and disclosure of the information we receive from them or on their behalf may result in claims against us or may limit or prevent our use of data, which could harm our business. we require our members to provide necessary notices and to obtain necessary permissions and waivers for use and disclosure of the information that we receive, and we require contractual assurances from them that they have done so and will do so. if they do not obtain necessary permissions and waivers, our use and disclosure of information that we receive from them or on their behalf may be limited or prohibited by state or federal privacy laws or other laws. any such failure to obtain proper permissions and waivers could impair our functions, processes, and databases that reflect, contain, or are based upon such data and may prevent our use of such data. in addition, such a failure could interfere with or prevent creation or use of rules and analyses or limit other data-driven activities that benefit us. moreover, we may be subject to claims or liability for use or disclosure of information by reason of our lack of a valid notice, permission, or waiver. these claims or liabilities could subject us to unexpected costs and adversely affect our operating results. our sources of data might restrict our use of or refuse to license us such data, which could adversely affect our ability to provide certain products or services. a portion of the data that we use is either purchased or licensed from third parties or is obtained from our members for specific engagements. we also obtain a portion of the data that we use from public records. if a substantial number of data providers, including our members, were to withdraw or no longer provide their data to us, our ability to provide products and services to our members could be materially adversely affected. we believe that we currently have the rights necessary to use the data that are incorporated into our products and services. in the future, however, data providers could seek to withdraw their data from us if there is a competitive reason to do so, if legislation is passed restricting the use of the data, or if judicial interpretations are issued restricting use of the data. further, our licenses for information may not allow us to use that information for all potential or contemplated applications and products. if our products or services fail to provide accurate information, or if our content or any other element of our products or services is associated with incorrect, inaccurate, or faulty coding, billing, or claims submissions to medicare or any other third-party payor, we could be liable for damages to customers or the government. our products and content were developed based on the laws, regulations, and third-party payor rules in existence at the time such software and content was developed. members could assert claims against us or the government, or qui tam relators on behalf of the government could assert claims against us under the federal false claims act or similar state laws, if we interpret those laws, regulations, or rules incorrectly; the laws, regulations, or rules materially change at any point after the software and content was developed; we fail to provide up-to-date, accurate information; or our products or services are otherwise associated with incorrect, inaccurate, or faulty coding, billing, or claims submissions by our members. the assertion of such claims and ensuing litigation, regardless of the resolution, could result in substantial costs to us, divert management’s attention from operations, damage our reputation, and decrease market acceptance of our services. although we attempt to limit by contract our liability to customers for damages, the allocations of responsibility and limitations of liability set forth in our contracts may not be enforceable or otherwise protect us from liability for damages. we cannot limit liability the government could seek to impose on us under the false claims act. if we fail to comply with federal and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse or reimbursement, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties or loss of eligibility to participate in government health care programs. a number of federal and state laws, including physician self-referral laws, anti-kickback restrictions, and laws prohibiting the submission of false or fraudulent claims, apply to health care providers, physicians, and others that make, offer, seek, or receive referrals or payments for products or services that may be paid for through any federal or state health care program and, in some instances, private programs. these laws are complex and change rapidly and may be applied to our business in ways that we do not anticipate. federal and state regulatory and law enforcement authorities have recently increased enforcement activities with respect to medicare and medicaid fraud and abuse regulations and other health care reimbursement laws and rules. from time to time, participants in the health care industry receive inquiries or subpoenas to produce documents in connection with government investigations. we could be required to expend significant time and resources to comply with these requests, and the attention of our management team could be diverted from operations by these efforts. 16 table of contents these laws and regulations may change rapidly, and it is frequently unclear how they apply to our business. errors created by our proprietary applications or that relate to claims or cost report information or services that relate to relationships between our members and other health care providers, including physicians, may be determined or alleged to be in violation of these laws and regulations. any failure of our proprietary applications or services to comply with these laws and regulations could result in substantial civil or criminal liability and could, among other things, adversely affect demand for our services, invalidate all or portions of some of our contracts with our members, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, cause us to be disqualified from serving customers doing business with government payors, and give our members the right to terminate our contracts with them. if we are unable to maintain our third-party providers or strategic alliances, or enter into new alliances, we may be unable to grow our current business. our business strategy includes entering into strategic alliances and affiliations with leading health care service providers. if existing alliances are terminated or we are unable to enter into alliances with such providers, we may be unable to maintain or increase our market presence. we work closely with our strategic partners either to expand our penetration in certain areas or to expand our market capabilities. we may not achieve our objectives through these alliances. many of these companies have multiple relationships and they may not regard us as significant to their business. moreover, these companies, in certain circumstances, may pursue relationships with our competitors or develop or acquire products and services that compete with our products and services. our business could be harmed if we are no longer able to license or integrate third-party technologies and data. we depend upon licenses from third-party vendors for some of the technology and data used in our business intelligence and software tools, for some of the technology platforms upon which these tools operate. we also use third-party software to maintain and enhance content generation and delivery, and to support our technology infrastructure. these technologies might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. most of these licenses can be renewed only by mutual agreement and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period. our inability to obtain any of these licenses could delay our ability to provide services until alternative technology can be identified, licensed, and integrated, which may harm our financial condition and results of operations. some of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive, and our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses to compete directly with us. our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology, and the generation of revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated procurement and maintenance costs. in addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future, we might not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions to operate as effectively without this technology. potential liability claims may adversely affect our business. our services, which involve recommendations and advice to organizations regarding complex business and operational processes, regulatory and compliance issues, and labor practices, may give rise to liability claims by our members or by third parties who bring claims against our members. health care and education organizations often are the subject of regulatory scrutiny and litigation, and we may also become the subject of such litigation based on our advice and services. any such litigation, whether or not resulting in a judgment against us, may adversely affect our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not have adequate insurance coverage for claims against us. if the protection of our intellectual property is inadequate, our competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and we may lose our competitive advantage. our success as a company depends in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. to accomplish this, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, copyrights, and trademarks, as well as customary contractual protections with employees, contractors, members, and partners. the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of our rights and may not be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to enforce our rights. our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we lose our competitive advantage because others are able to use our intellectual property. if unauthorized uses of our proprietary products and services were to occur, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our rights. we may not prevail in any such litigation. 17 table of contents if we are alleged to infringe, misappropriate, or violate the proprietary rights of third parties, we could incur unanticipated expense and be prevented from providing our products and services. we could be subject to intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or other intellectual property violation claims as our research content and applications' functionality overlaps with competitive products, and third parties may claim that we do not own or have rights to use all intellectual property rights used in the conduct of our business. we do not believe that we have infringed or are infringing on any valid or enforceable proprietary rights of third parties. however, we cannot assure you that infringement, misappropriation or claims alleging intellectual property violations will not be asserted against us. also, we cannot assure you that any such claims will be unsuccessful. we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources defending any such claims. furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide products or services. in addition, we cannot assure you that licenses for any intellectual property of third parties that might be required for our products or services will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. such claims also might require indemnification of our members at significant expense. in addition, a number of our contracts with our members contain indemnity provisions whereby we indemnify them against certain losses that may arise from third-party claims that are brought in connection with the use of our products. our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have limited visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. in addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition. our use of open source technology could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our software applications. many of our software applications incorporate open source software components that are licensed to us under various public domain licenses. some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of these licenses and therefore the potential impact of such terms on our business is somewhat unknown. there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market our software applications. while we monitor our use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose our source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur and we may be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our offering, discontinue sales of our offering in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could cause us to breach customer contracts, harm our reputation, result in customer losses or claims, increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.” in addition, as discussed in note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for uncollectible revenue, income taxes, and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, our reported operating results could be materially adversely affected. any significant increase in bad debt in excess of recorded estimates would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations may incur unexpected losses from unforeseen exposures to member credit risk. we initially evaluate the collectability of our accounts receivable based on a number of factors, including a specific member’s ability to meet its financial obligations to us, the length of time the receivables are past due, and historical collections experience. based on these assessments, we record a reserve for specific account balances as well as a general reserve based on our historical experience for bad debt to reduce the related receivables to the amount we expect to collect from members. if circumstances related to specific members change as a result of the current economic climate or otherwise, such as a limited ability to meet financial obligations due to bankruptcy, or if conditions deteriorate to the extent that our past collection experience is no longer relevant, 18 table of contents the amount of accounts receivable that we are able to collect may be less than our previous estimates as we experience bad debt in excess of reserves previously recorded. we may pursue acquisition opportunities, which could subject us to considerable business and financial risk. we evaluate potential acquisitions of complementary businesses on an ongoing basis and may from time to time pursue acquisition opportunities. we may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, assessing the value, strengths, and weaknesses of these opportunities, or consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. future acquisitions may result in dilution to earnings, including acquisitions involving potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or issuances of debt. acquisitions may expose us to particular business and financial risks, including risks that we may: • suffer the diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • incur indebtedness and assume additional liabilities, known and unknown, including liabilities relating to the use of intellectual property we acquire; • incur significant additional capital expenditures, transaction expenses, operating expenses, and non-recurring acquisition-related and integration charges; • experience an adverse impact on our earnings from the amortization or impairment of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets; • fail to integrate successfully the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • enter new markets or market new products with which we are not entirely familiar; and • fail to retain key personnel of, vendors to, and clients of the acquired businesses. if we are unable to manage the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we experience unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, we may fail to achieve expected cost savings, revenue opportunities, and other expected benefits of our acquisition strategy and may be required to focus resources on integrating the acquired operations rather than on our primary product and service offerings. any significant impairment of our goodwill would lead to a decrease in our assets and a reduction in our net operating performance. as of march 31, 2014, we had goodwill of approximately $129.4 million, which constituted approximately 12.4% of our total assets as of that date. if we make changes in our business strategy or if market or other conditions adversely affect our business operations, we may be forced to record an impairment change, which would lead to a decrease in our assets and a reduction in our net operating performance. if the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we will be required to record an impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill in the period in which the determination is made. the testing of goodwill for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about the future performance and cash flows of our company, as well as other assumptions. these estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry, or market conditions, changes in underlying business operations, future reporting unit operating performance, existing or new product market acceptance, changes in competition, or changes in technologies. any changes in key assumptions, or actual performance compared with those assumptions, about our business and its future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value of one or more reporting units, and result in an impairment charge. we may invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. from time to time, we may make investments in companies to further their strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. as of march 31, 2014, we held approximately $21.4 million of such investments. such investments could include equity or debt instruments in private companies, and many of these instruments may be non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. these companies may range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. the success of these companies may depend on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business factors. the companies 19 table of contents in which we invest may fail because they may not be able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or take advantage of liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private sales. if any of these private companies fails, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. if we determine that impairment indicators exist and that there are other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of the investments, we may be required to write down the investments to their fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. if we are required to collect sales and use taxes on the programs we sell in additional jurisdictions, we may be subject to liability for past sales and incur additional related costs and expenses and may experience a decrease in our future sales. we may lose sales or incur significant expenses if states are successful in imposing state sales and use taxes on our services. a successful assertion by one or more states that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with software vendors subject to sales and use taxes, and otherwise harm our business. each state has different rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. we review these rules and regulations periodically and, when we believe that our services are subject to sales and use taxes in a particular state, may approach state tax authorities to determine how to comply with their rules and regulations. we may become subject to sales and use taxes and related interest and penalties for past sales in states where we believe no compliance is necessary. if we are required to collect and pay back taxes and the associated interest and penalties, and if our members fail or refuse to reimburse us for all or a portion of these amounts, we will incur unplanned expenses that may be substantial. moreover, imposition of such taxes on our future services will effectively increase the cost of such services to our members and may adversely affect our ability to retain existing clients or to gain new members in the states in which such taxes are imposed. we may not be able to fully realize our deferred tax assets. for tax purposes, we have deferred income tax assets consisting primarily of state income tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards. as of march 31, 2014, our deferred income tax assets totaled approximately $43.0 million, which constituted approximately 4.1% of our total assets as of that date. if our future taxable income is less than we believe it will be, we may not be able to fully realize our deferred tax assets. in estimating future tax consequences, we do not consider the effect of future changes in existing tax laws or rates in the determination and evaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities until the new tax laws or rates are enacted. we have established our deferred income tax assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax laws and rates, including the estimated effects of our status as a qualified high technology company on our washington, d.c. deferred tax assets. we will recognize an adjustment to income for the impact of new tax laws or rates on the existing deferred tax assets and liabilities when and if new tax laws or rates are enacted that have an impact on our deferred income taxes. if our members who operate as not-for profit entities lose their tax-exempt status, those members would suffer significant adverse tax consequences which, in turn, could adversely affect their ability to purchase products or services from us. state tax authorities have challenged the tax-exempt status of hospitals and other health care facilities claiming such status on the basis that they are operating as charitable and/or religious organizations. the outcome of these cases has been mixed with some facilities retaining their tax-exempt status and others being denied the ability to continue operating as not-for profit, tax-exempt entities under state law. in addition, many states have removed sales tax exemptions previously available to not-for-profit entities, and both the internal revenue service and the u.s. congress are investigating the practices of non-for profit hospitals. those facilities denied tax exemptions could be subject to the imposition of tax penalties and assessments which could have a material adverse impact on their cash flow, financial strength, and, in some cases, continuing viability. if the tax exempt status of any of our members is revoked or compromised by new legislation or interpretation of existing legislation, that member’s financial health could be adversely affected, which could negatively affect our sales to those members. we could become subject to regulation by the food and drug administration if functionality in one or more of our software tools causes the software to be considered a medical device. the overall framework of the laws and regulations administered by the food and drug administration, or “fda,” applies to all products that meet the definition of a “medical device.” to the extent that functionality in one or more of our current or future software products causes the software to be considered a medical device under existing fda regulations or policies or under regulations and policies now under active consideration by the fda, we, as a provider of application functionality, could be required, depending on the functionality, to: • register our company and list products with the fda; • notify the fda and demonstrate substantial equivalence to other products on the market before marketing our functionality; 20 table of contents • obtain fda approval by demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of the regulated products prior to marketing; and • comply with various fda regulations, including the agency’s quality system regulation, medical device reporting regulations, corrections and removal reporting regulations, and post-market surveillance regulations. the fda can impose extensive requirements governing pre- and post-market conditions, such as service investigation and conditions relating to approval, labeling, and manufacturing. in addition, the fda can impose extensive requirements governing development controls and quality assurance processes. any application of fda regulations to our business could adversely affect our financial results by increasing our operating costs, slowing our time to market for regulated software products, and making it uneconomical to offer some software products. our growing operations in india expose us to risks that could have an adverse effect on our costs of operations. as of march 31, 2014, we employed approximately 8% of our 2,800 employees in india through our indian subsidiary, abco advisory services india private ltd., which expects to continue adding personnel. while there are cost advantages to operating in india, significant growth in the technology sector in india has increased competition to attract and retain skilled employees and has led to a commensurate increase in compensation expense. in the future, we may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure in india. in addition, our reliance on a workforce in india exposes us to disruptions in the business, political, and economic environment in that region. maintenance of a stable political environment is important to our operations, and terrorist attacks and acts of violence or war may directly affect our physical facilities and workforce or contribute to general instability. our operations in india require us to comply with complex local laws and regulatory requirements and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk. our indian operations may also subject us to trade restrictions, reduced or inadequate protection for intellectual property rights, security breaches, and other factors that may adversely affect our business. negative developments in any of these areas could increase our costs of operations or otherwise harm our business. item 1b. unresolved