item 1a.   risk factors our business faces significant risks, some of which are set forth below to enable readers to assess, and be appropriately apprised of, many of the risks and uncertainties applicable to the forward-looking statements made in this annual report on form 10-k. you should carefully consider these risk factors as each of these risks could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business may suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. in assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, including our financial statements and related notes. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. 12 table of contents risks related to our business we have recently recalled omontys nationwide due to safety concerns and omontys may not be reintroduced to the market unless we are able to rapidly identify and successfully address the causes of the safety concerns with the fda. omontys is our only product and the recall has severely harmed our business. we face significant challenges to our business. we may have to abandon or relinquish some or all of our product rights. accordingly, we may not be able to continue the business and operations of the company as a result of these safety concerns.   we recently announced the voluntary nationwide recall of omontys from the market resulting from serious allergic reactions reported in patients receiving omontys, including anaphylaxis related to deaths occurring after first administration of omontys. while we continue to investigate these cases and the nature and causes of the safety concerns, if we are unable to rapidly identify and rectify the causes, the product could be permanently withdrawn from the market and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. the recall has severely harmed our business and financial condition and prospects as a going concern and we may not be able to continue the business and operations of the company. in order to address the safety concerns resulting in the recall of omontys, we would have to complete our ongoing thorough investigation, identify the causes of the serious allergic reactions and provide a suitable plan to the fda for approval. we are unable to predict if or when this process may be completed or the associated costs, but we expect that that investigation may be lengthy and are uncertain as to whether our available limited resources, particularly in light of our recent reductions in our workforce, which may not allow us to complete the process in a timely manner. further, in an effort to continue our operations in the near term with our limited resources, we will need to continue to substantially reduce our operating costs, including further reductions in force of critical personnel and functions, even those directly related to the conduct of the investigation and support of our new drug application or nda for omontys. there can be no assurance that our business can continue or omontys can be shown to be sufficiently safe to meet the requirements of the fda for reintroduction. moreover, even if omontys could be reintroduced, the commercial prospects for this product may be permanently diminished, coverage and reimbursement may not be available, and the product may no longer be commercially viable. we have incurred significant operating losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future without revenues from omontys, which was our only product. we have undertaken a reorganization and if we are unable to substantially further reduce our expenses, we may need to cease operations.   we have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 2001. at december 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $543.7 million. due to the recent recall of omontys and the uncertainty of when or if we may receive any revenues from omontys, we anticipate that we will incur substantial losses in future periods. in particular, we expect to continue to spend substantial amounts in order to:   • investigate the causes of reported patients' hypersensitivity reactions to omontys; • if we are able to identify and address the safety concerns with omontys, meet the requirements of the fda in an effort to reintroduce and commercialize omontys; • support and maintain our organizations and infrastructure to manage and comply with our ongoing regulatory and legal obligations as well as to support our existing and potential future litigation; and • maintain or manage our ongoing contractual commitments to third parties including to omontys contract manufacturing organizations, or cmos to reduce our obligations pending the outcome of the investigation. as a result of the recall and the suspension of all marketing activities, there is significant uncertainty as to whether we will have sufficient cash, cash equivalents, and investments to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. even with the recent reorganization, further reductions in our workforce and cash outflows, there is no assurance that we will be able to reduce our operating expenses enough to meet our existing obligations and conduct ongoing operations.  if we are not able to reintroduce the product or obtain additional funding in the near future, our cash resources will rapidly be depleted and we will be required to significantly reduce or suspend operations, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, stock price and our relationships with third parties with whom we have business relationships. further, we may be in breach under our loan and security agreement, or the loan agreement, with oxford finance llc and silicon valley bank, or, collectively, the lenders as the voluntary recall may be considered a material adverse event under the loan agreement. under the loan agreement, the lenders have various rights, including the right to not extend further credit of the remaining $20.0 13 table of contents million under the loan agreement, require immediate repayment of the outstanding principal plus accrued and unpaid interest, a final payment fee and prepayment fee of approximately $2.2 million as of february 28, 2013 and other remedies available under the terms of the loan agreement. in order to maintain our efforts to identify and address the safety concerns with omontys, we are undertaking a significant restructuring of the business and operations of the company, but we plan to continue to make efforts to substantially reduce our operating costs, which will likely include further reductions in force as we endeavor to conserve our cash resources. to date, our sources of cash have been limited primarily to the proceeds from the sale of our securities to private and public investors and payments by takeda under our collaboration agreements. further challenges or delays to potential reintroduction of omontys could require us to raise additional funds to continue our operations. we cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. to the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, if available, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. our current debt financing involves security interests on our assets and restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business.   if we are unable to identify quickly the causes of the omontys safety concerns or raise additional funds when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to: • abandon the investigation, nda, and any potential to reintroduce omontys ; • significantly delay, scale back, or discontinue operations;   • abandon or relinquish some or all of our existing rights to omontys;   • eliminate or defer manufacturing efforts that may negatively impact omontys; or   • pursue alternatives such as a sale of the company or its assets, a corporate merger, restructuring, winddown of operations or even bankruptcy proceedings.   our ability to generate product sales and continue as a going concern depends heavily on our ability to successfully reintroduce and commercialize omontys, which is highly uncertain and challenging.  omontys will require significant marketing efforts and substantial investment before it can provide us with any meaningful revenue, if ever. we expect to incur substantial expenses associated with the recall and the ongoing investigation. even if the underlying causes of the safety concerns can be identified, which is uncertain, the timelines associated with the investigation and the feasibility and costs associated with implementing solutions to address the safety concerns to the satisfaction of the fda are highly uncertain. our recent reorganization and future reductions in force of critical personnel and functions may substantially impair the investigation and our ability to maintain our operations and support the nda. accordingly, we may never be able to reintroduce omontys or generate significant revenues and, even if omontys is reintroduced so as to generate product sales, we may never achieve or sustain profitability. our independent registered public accounting firm has indicated that our financial condition raises substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. our independent registered public accounting firm has included in their audit opinion on our financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2012, a statement with respect to substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. our financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue to operate as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. if we became unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets and the values we receive for our assets in liquidation or dissolution could be significantly lower than the values reflected in our financial statements. the reaction of investors to the inclusion of a going concern statement in the report of our independent registered public accounting firm, our lack of cash resources, and our potential inability to continue as a going concern may materially adversely affect our share price and our ability to raise new capital or continue our operations. we will be unable to proceed with next steps for omontys without amendment of our collaboration arrangement with takeda and the cooperation and support of takeda in the u.s.  if we fail to successfully renegotiate our arrangement or otherwise maintain our existing collaboration with takeda, such termination would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and our ability to meet our obligations and may result in our having to cease operations. 14 table of contents    the maintenance and successful performance of our strategic collaboration with takeda for omontys is an important part of our business and operations, in particular with respect to the omontys recall and investigation. our collaboration with takeda is extremely complex and we both have obligations to the fda and one another with respect to the manufacture, development and approval of omontys, including a sharing of the costs associated with the collaboration which have been significantly impacted by the recall of product and related write-offs of assets and third party commitments. the complexity of our collaboration creates significant risk and uncertainty as to how and when we might be in position to address the safety concerns of omontys  that resulted in our product recall.  in addition, as our cost-sharing arrangement with takeda proceeds, without significant renegotiation and support from takeda, we may be unable to continue in the collaboration which may result in our having to cease operations. moreover, takeda has the ability to terminate our collaboration upon an uncured material breach by us or even in the absence of a material breach with six months notice.  currently, takeda could terminate either or both of our collaboration agreements, which termination in the u.s. would have a material adverse effect on omontys and our business and operations.  in the past, events such as the suspension of the omontys oncology program, the impact of the phase 3 results on the renal program particularly on the non-dialysis indication, and the decreased market opportunity for esas increase the possibility that takeda may elect to terminate the collaboration or limit the resources takeda is willing to commit to omontys. the safety concerns with omontys combined with the recent u.s. recall may negatively impact the ema decision and takeda's view of the collaboration and its overall commitment to omontys, including in the u.s., our major market opportunity. under our collaboration, takeda currently provides funding and performs important functions, including contracting, pricing, accounting for the collaboration revenue and profit equalization and conducting manufacturing activities, all of which are essential to our continuation as a going concern in the near-term. even in the absence of termination by takeda, the significant resources and commitment that may be required to successfully address omontys safety concerns with the fda and to reintroduce and commercialize omontys in the u.s. may result in limited commercial opportunity, and takeda's failure to provide funding or timely cooperate in our investigation of the causes of the safety concerns with omontys would have a significant adverse effect on our efforts and our business.   we are currently subject to securities class action litigation and derivative litigation and may be subject to similar or other litigation such as products liability litigation in the future. we and certain of our officers as well as takeda pharmaceutical company limited, takeda pharmaceuticals u.s.a., inc. and takeda global research & development center, inc. have been named defendants in two lawsuits filed in february 2013 in the united states district court for the northern district of california, brought on behalf of stockholders of the company that alleges violations of the securities exchange act of 1934 in connection with allegedly false and misleading statements made by the defendants regarding our business practices, financial projections and other disclosures between december 8, 2011 and february 22, 2013, or the class period. the plaintiffs seek to represent a class comprised of purchasers of our common stock during the class period and seek damages, costs and expenses and such other relief as determined by the court. in addition, in march 2013, a derivative lawsuit was filed purportedly on behalf of the company in california superior court for the county of santa clara naming certain of our officers and directors as defendants.  the lawsuit alleges that certain of our officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties related to the clinical trials for omontys and for representations regarding our business health, which was tied to the success of omontys.  the lawsuit also asserts claims for unjust enrichment and corporate waste.  while we believe we have meritorious defenses and intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits. we believe that there may be additional suits or proceedings brought in the future. monitoring and defending against legal actions, whether or not meritorious, is time-consuming for our management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities and we cannot predict how long it may take to resolve these matters. in addition, legal fees and costs incurred in connection with such activities may be significant and we could, in the future, be subject to judgments or enter into settlements of claims for significant monetary damages. a decision adverse to our interests on these actions or resulting from these matters could result in the payment of substantial damages and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial position.  likewise, if product liability lawsuits are brought against us for injuries or deaths due to patients' adverse reactions to omontys, we may be subject to additional liability. in any event, a potential product liability lawsuit would require significant financial and management resources. regardless of the outcome, product liability claims may result in injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial participants, significant costs, diversion of management's attention and 15 table of contents resources, substantial monetary awards, loss of revenue, and additional distractions from our efforts to address safety concerns that may allow us to reintroduce omontys. our inability to obtain and retain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the reintroduction of omontys. with respect to any litigation, our insurance may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for the expenses or losses we may suffer in contesting and concluding such lawsuits. substantial litigation costs or an adverse result in any litigation may adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition. our success depends on our ability with takeda to effectively and profitably commercialize omontys, when and if we reintroduce omontys.   our success depends on our ability with takeda to reintroduce omontys and effectively and profitably commercialize omontys when and if we reintroduce omontys. there is no assurance that we can identify and address the underlying cause of the serious hypersensitivity reactions described under the caption “omontys voluntary recall” in “item 1.business” of this annual report on form 10-k. if we fail to demonstrate the safety of omontys, we will not be able to reintroduce omontys and our business will be materially and adversely affected. when and if we reintroduce omontys, our success will depend on our ability to: • create market demand for omontys through our education, marketing and sales activities, as well as through our co-promotion agreement with takeda pharmaceutical company limited, or takeda, including our ability to establish or demonstrate the safety of omontys;  • re-build a qualified commercial and medical affairs organization and field force;  • achieve market acceptance and generate product sales through takeda's execution of agreements with the major operators of dialysis clinics on commercially reasonable terms; • support the efforts of dialysis clinics to safely and effectively administer omontys to dialysis patients on a different treatment plan than for the other approved erythropoiesis stimulating agents, or esas; • receive adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors, including government healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid and private insurance programs; • comply with the post-marketing requirements established by the fda, including the risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or rems, and any other requirements established by the fda in the future; • comply with other healthcare regulatory requirements; • ensure that the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or api, for omontys and the finished product are manufactured in sufficient quantities and in compliance with requirements of the fda and similar foreign regulatory agencies and with an acceptable quality and pricing level in order to meet commercial demand; and • ensure that the entire supply chain for omontys - from api to finished product - efficiently and consistently delivers omontys to our customers.   when and if we are able to reintroduce omontys, which is highly uncertain, it will be even more challenging for us to accomplish these activities in view of the recall and related safety concerns particularly due to the long-term experience with currently marketed products and negative perceptions of omontys' safety. if we are unable to successfully reintroduce and commercialize omontys, we will not receive any sales revenue from the product, which will have a material adverse impact on our business and our prospects. even if we are able to reintroduce omontys, we may not be able to commercialize omontys successfully.   if we are able to reintroduce omontys, we must have internal sales, marketing, medical affairs, contracting, reimbursement and distribution capabilities. if we are not successful in re-building a commercial and medical affairs organization, then we will have difficulty commercializing omontys when and if it is reintroduced, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. if we are unable to successfully address these responsibilities ourselves, then we may need to identify third-party providers to support these efforts, which may lead to delays and additional costs as well as potential confusion to our customers.  to the extent that we enter into additional co-promotion or other arrangements, any 16 table of contents revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of both parties, which may not be successful and are only partially in our control. our product revenues would likely be lower than if we marketed and sold our products directly. even if we are able to reintroduce omontys, we would need to attain significant market acceptance for the product among physicians, patients, health care payors, and the major operators of dialysis clinics, and we would need to reach a long-term agreement with either or both of the largest operators of dialysis clinics.   until the approval of omontys, only epogen and aranesp, the esas of our competitor amgen, inc., or amgen, have been used for the treatment of anemia due to chronic kidney disease in adult patients on dialysis in the u.s. this dialysis market is highly established and concentrated, with epogen and aranesp serving a significant majority of all dialysis patients on medicare. these two products are the current standard of care, and it may be difficult to encourage healthcare providers to consider omontys, should it be reintroduced, as an alternative to these products with which they and their patients have a longstanding relationship.  physicians, who make the ultimate decision to prescribe a product, may not prescribe omontys, in which case our ability to sell the product would be adversely impacted.  similarly, dialysis clinics using epogen or aranesp could incur substantial expense in administration and training if they were to convert to omontys. finally, healthcare providers may not receive adequate levels of reimbursement for omontys from third-party payors, including government healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid and private insurance programs.  some or all of these factors may hinder our efforts to attain significant market acceptance of omontys should it be reintroduced, which would pose a risk to our ability to obtain revenues or favorable margins for the product.   even if we are able to reintroduce and achieve market acceptance of omontys, if we are unable to reach a long-term supply agreement with either or both of the largest operators of dialysis clinics in the u.s, fresenius medical care north america and davita, inc. or fresenius and davita, respectively, on favorable terms or on a timely basis, then the revenue opportunity for omontys could be significantly reduced. we may not be able to reach a long-term supply agreement with either fresenius or davita because both entered into a long-term supply agreement with amgen that began in january 2012.  in particular, fresenius entered into a “multi-year” agreement with amgen whereby amgen would supply epogen on a “non-exclusive” basis to fresenius, and davita entered into a seven-year agreement with amgen whereby amgen would supply epogen to meet at least 90% of davita's requirements for esas used in providing dialysis services in the u.s.  the specific terms of the amgen-fresenius agreement and the amgen-davita agreement have not been publicly disclosed, and we cannot predict how these agreements may impact the commercial opportunity for omontys should it be reintroduced. but these agreements may limit the market opportunity for the product and adversely impact our ability to generate product sales. in july 2012, fresenius entered into a short-term supply agreement with takeda pharmaceuticals america, inc., or tpa, a subsidiary of takeda, whereby tpa supplied omontys to fresenius for use in certain u.s. dialysis clinics within its organization. on february 13, 2013, fresenius communicated that it had accumulated experience with omontys in more than 56,600 administrations in over 18,000 patients in its dialysis facilities and that it had decided to pause further expansion of its omontys pilot program. fresenius indicated that it would analyze the full set of efficacy and safety profile information regarding omontys and that the current scale of their experience with use of the product was adequate to complete this analysis. even if we are able to successfully address the recent safety concerns for omontys with the fda, we believe it may be more challenging to continue with or expand upon the short-term supply agreement with fresenius in the near term. in any event, amgen's long-term supply agreements with davita and fresenius and the potential introduction of mircera and biosimilars may limit the market opportunity for omontys and adversely impact our ability to generate product sales should we reintroduce the product. the opportunity to reintroduce omontys is highly uncertain and challenging as a result of the negative perception of the safety of omontys.      the safety concerns resulting in the recent omontys recall and the safety concerns for esas as a class may make it challenging to identify and rectify the causes of the safety concerns to the satisfaction of the fda and may significantly reduce the market for omontys if and when it is reintroduced  for example:   • in 2007, as a result of concerns associated with administering esas to target higher hemoglobin levels, the fda required that revised warnings, including boxed warnings, be added to the labels of currently marketed esas advising physicians to monitor hemoglobin levels and to use the lowest dose of esa to increase the hemoglobin concentration to the lowest level sufficient to avoid the need for red blood cell transfusions.   • in late 2009, amgen announced the results from the trial to reduce cardiovascular endpoints with aranesp therapy, or treat, its large, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 study of patients with chronic kidney disease (not requiring dialysis), anemia and type-2 diabetes. in this study, aranesp was used to 17 table of contents treat anemia to a target hemoglobin of 13 g/dl, which was higher than the 10 g/dl - 12 g/dl range previously approved by the fda in the label.  study results reportedly failed to show benefit compared to the control group with regard to composite of time to all-cause mortality or cardiovascular morbidity (including heart failure, heart attack, stroke, or hospitalization for myocardial ischemia) and a composite of time to all-cause mortality or chronic renal replacement. in addition, higher rates of stroke were reported among patients treated with aranesp compared to the control group. finally, among a subgroup of patients with a history of cancer at baseline, a statistically significant increase in deaths from cancer was observed in the aranesp-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients.   • in january 2010, fda officials published an editorial in the new england journal of medicine noting that a number of randomized trials, including treat, had attempted to show that using esas to raise hemoglobin concentrations to higher targets improves clinical outcomes but rather suggested the opposite. accordingly, the article indicated that more conservative hemoglobin targets (well below 12 g/dl), more frequent hemoglobin monitoring, and more cautious dosing, should be evaluated.   • in february 2010, the fda announced that esas must be prescribed and used under a rems to ensure the safe use of the drugs. as part of the rems, a medication guide explaining the risks and benefits of esas must be provided to all patients receiving esas for all indications, and the manufacturer has reporting and monitoring obligations to ensure compliance.   • in june 2011, the fda cited increased risks of cardiovascular events as a basis for more conservative dosing guidelines for use of esas in chronic kidney disease and announced related changes to esa labeling.  the fda removed the prior target range of 10-12 g/dl and while separately issuing guidance for non-dialysis patients, the fda recommended that dialysis patients initiate treatment when the hemoglobin is less than 10 g/dl and to reduce or interrupt dosing if hemoglobin level approaches or exceeds 11 g/dl. the fda also required amgen to conduct additional clinical trials to explore dosing strategies, including in dialysis patients to minimize hemoglobin variability, rates of change and excursions. • in february 2013, in connection with the recall, the fda announced that due to the severity of the public health risk, the fda wanted to be certain that health care providers stop using omontys and that it would investigate products and facilities associated with the recall and would provide updates. the controversy surrounding esas and fda safety concerns has, and may, further negatively affect omontys. in addition, recent and future fda actions represent additional challenges to the market for esas as a class and may affect the timing or costs associated with implementing a solution to address the cause of patients' hypersensitivity reactions to omontys when and if a cause is available that is satisfactory to the fda. we cannot predict what additional actions, if any, the fda may take, which may include additional label restrictions, the use of informed consents, further lowering or removal of target hemoglobin levels, or even the removal of indications from the label. further, regardless of whether or not the fda takes additional action, the centers for medicare and medicaid services, or cms, and other third-party payors may still decide separately to discontinue or limit coverage or lower reimbursement as cms has recently adopted changes and continues to evaluate coverage and reimbursement policy for esas as class. any of these factors could significantly delay or negatively impact the commercialization of omontys when and if we reintroduce it. in addition, any negative perception of the safety of omontys relative to other esas as a result of our phase 3 clinical results could significantly reduce the market opportunity for our product when and if we reintroduce it.  specifically, in june 2010, we announced preliminary top-line results from the omontys phase 3 clinical program for the treatment of patients with anemia associated with chronic kidney disease. our phase 3 clinical program included four open-label, randomized controlled clinical trials: pearl 1 and pearl 2 conducted in non-dialysis patients and emerald 1 and emerald 2 conducted in dialysis patients.  analysis of efficacy and safety for all of the phase 3 trials were based primarily on assessments of non-inferiority to the comparator drugs.  while omontys met the statistical criterion for non-inferiority for the assessment of safety for the cardiovascular composite safety endpoint, or cse, which was composed of death, stroke, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, unstable angina and arrhythmia from a pooled safety database across the four phase 3 trials, some differences were observed when secondary analyses were conducted, including a difference in a subgroup analysis conducted in the pearl trials where the frequency of cse events was higher in the omontys group relative to the comparator in non-dialysis patients.  since omontys was launched, over 25,000 patients have been treated with omontys. serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, which can be life-threatening or fatal, have been recently reported as described under the caption “omontys voluntary recall” under “item 1. business” of this annual report on form 10-k. on february 23, 2013, we and takeda announced a nationwide voluntary recall of omontys and suspended the promotional activities and marketing of omontys. this has severely harmed our business and future financial 18 table of contents results. any negative perception of omontys' safety relative to other esas could further significantly limit any potential opportunity for us to reintroduce and successfully commercialize omontys.   finally, any negative perception of the safety of omontys relative to other esas as a result of any new medical data or product quality issues that suggest new risks or side effects, or increase concern over previously identified risks or side effects would significantly negatively impact the commercial potential as well as any possible reintroduction of omontys.   we have continuing obligations with respect to omontys and fda approval remains subject to certain post-marketing requirements that could significantly increase costs or delay or limit our ability to successfully commercialize the product when and if it is reintroduced. if results, data or information with respect to our continuing obligations are negative or we are unable to fulfill our continuing obligations to regulatory authorities or our post-marketing requirements, there may be changes to our product label or we may be required to withdraw the product from the market.   the fda approved omontys subject to certain post-marketing requirements.  for example, we are required to conduct an observational study and a randomized controlled trial to be completed with final reports submitted in 2018 and 2019, respectively, to evaluate cardiovascular safety and assess safety of long-term use in adult patients on dialysis.  we are also required to initiate pediatric studies with target dates for completion between 2016 and 2027.  in addition, we are required to comply with a rems, which includes a requirement to send “dear healthcare provider” letters to nephrology healthcare providers informing them that omontys is not indicated in patients with chronic kidney disease not on dialysis.   even if we are able to address the safety concerns resulting in our recall of omontys to the satisfaction of the fda, maintaining regulatory approval for omontys will be increasingly difficult.  if we are unable to fulfill the requirements of regulatory authorities or our post-marketing requirements or to the extent there are other unfavorable results, data or other information arising therefrom, then there may be limitations imposed on our product label or we may be required to permanently withdraw the product from the market.   we have relied on numerous third parties to conduct and complete our development program for omontys, and we will continue to rely on third parties to maintain approval of the product.   due to the size and limited experience of our organization, we have relied heavily on third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise conducting our clinical trials. even though we have completed our phase 3 clinical program and omontys was approved by the fda, we will continue to require the assistance of third parties in the future, particularly with respect to completing our post-marketing requirements.  for example, fda and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. our reliance on third parties in connection with conducting our post-marketing trials does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements, and regulatory authorities may find remediation efforts by us or such third parties insufficient.  in addition, we have had significant difficulties obtaining necessary and quality third-party assistance. we continue to compete with larger and other companies for the attention and assistance of these third parties. if we are unsuccessful in obtaining the needed assistance on acceptable terms, we will have difficulty commercializing omontys and completing our post-marketing requirements.   competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. our recent product recall means that omontys will have to overcome significant competitive issues relative to other approved esas on the market.   we face competition from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, in particular companies that have an approved esa on the market. our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than omontys. our recent setback with the omontys recall and the uncertainty of whether omontys will be available on the market at all may mean that omontys will be at a significant disadvantage upon the entry of competing products.   when and if omontys is reintroduced, we anticipate that it will compete with epogen and potentially aranesp, which are both marketed by amgen, and neorecormon and mircera, which are currently marketed outside the u.s. by roche.  mircera reportedly has greater plasma stability and is longer acting than any repo product that was on the market in the u.s. prior to omontys. as a result of the patent litigation between roche and amgen, mircera was found to infringe several u.s. patents owned by amgen and was enjoined from being sold in the u.s. until the expiration of these patents in mid-2014 under a limited license.  if mircera enters the u.s. market, we believe it will be in direct competition with omontys, if we are able to reintroduce the product, because of mircera's ability to be long-acting; therefore, it could potentially limit the market for omontys. 19 table of contents the introduction of biosimilars into the esa market could also prove to be a significant threat if and when we reintroduce omontys as biosimilars could not only limit the market for the product, but could also drive down the price of esas. we may also face competition from potential new anemia therapies if and when we reintroduce omontys.  there are several product candidates in various stages of active development for anemia indications by potential competitors that may promote the production of naturally-occurring epo in patients, and some of these product candidates may enter the market as early as 2015.  if these product candidates enter the market they may be in direct competition with omontys if and when it is reintroduced.  in addition, certain companies are developing potential new therapies for renal-related diseases that could reduce esa utilization and thus limit the market for omontys if and when it is reintroduced. most of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources and expertise in obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. current marketers of esas also have the ability to bundle sales of existing esa products with their other products, potentially disadvantaging omontys, which we anticipate to sell on a stand-alone basis when and if we reintroduce it. established pharmaceutical and large biotechnology companies may invest heavily to discover and develop novel compounds or drug delivery technology that could make omontys obsolete. smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through strategic partnerships with large and established companies. these third parties may compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent or other intellectual property protection or discovering, developing and commercializing products before we do.   when and if we reintroduce omontys, the u.s. market opportunity for omontys may deteriorate significantly after the entry of biosimilars in the u.s.   in march 2010, federal legislation gave the fda authority to create an abbreviated approval path for biological products that are demonstrated to be “biosimilar” to, or “interchangeable” with, an fda-approved biological product. in february 2012, the fda released three draft guidance documents regarding this abbreviated approval path for biosimilar products and the fda accepted public comments on these documents. a biosimilar product would be a subsequent version of an existing, branded fda-approved biologic product. the patent for the existing branded product must expire in a given market before biosimilars may enter that market.   the patents for epoetin alfa, a version of recombinant human erythropoietin, or repo, expired in 2004 in the european union, or e.u., and the remaining patents expire from 2012 through 2015 in the u.s. several biosimilar versions of repo are available for sale in the e.u. and biosimilar versions of repo are currently being studied in clinical trials in the u.s. for example, in january 2012, hospira, inc. announced the beginning of its phase 3 clinical program for its biosimilar with results anticipated in 2013, and in october 2012, sandoz announced the beginning of its phase 3 clinical program for its biosimilar with results anticipated in 2014. we expect that biosimilars, including repo, will be sold at a discount to existing branded products when they are launched in the u.s. as in the e.u. the introduction of biosimilars into the repo market in the u.s. could prove to be a significant threat to omontys if they are able to demonstrate biosimilarity to existing repo. biosimilars will constitute additional competition for omontys should it be reintroduced, and are expected to drive down its price and sales volume, which would adversely affect our revenues.   the reintroduction and commercial success of omontys in the u.s. depends in significant part on the efforts of takeda, over which we have limited control in the u.s.  the corporate governance structure and division of roles and responsibilities with takeda under our co-promotion agreement is complex and requires substantial coordination and focus on the part of takeda to successfully execute our plans.  outside of the u.s. in the takeda territory, we are solely dependent on the efforts and commitments of takeda, either directly or through third parties, to reintroduce or further commercialize omontys.  if our collaborations are unsuccessful, our ability to commercialize products through our collaborations, and to generate future product sales, would be significantly reduced.   our dependence on takeda for our global collaboration subjects us to a number of risks, including our ability to successfully reintroduce and commercialize omontys in the u.s. and sole reliance on takeda, either directly or through third parties, to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of the product in the takeda territory.   20 table of contents under our collaboration with takeda, we have co-commercialized omontys in the u.s., and will further co-commercialize the product in the u.s. when and if it is reintroduced.  because we share responsibility with takeda for commercialization activities in the u.s., which involves a complex corporate governance structure and division of roles and responsibilities, the conduct and success of the omontys program is substantially dependent on the efforts of takeda over which we have limited or no control. further, as takeda has significant rights, responsibilities and decision-making authority over commercialization of omontys in the u.s., including final decision-making authority with respect to pricing, contracting and distribution activities, any failure of takeda to act in a timely manner or make adequate investments of funds or resources may delay the reintroduction and further commercialization of omontys, which may result in a negative impact on our planned timelines, require us to contribute more resources to reintroduce and successfully commercialize omontys and decrease the likelihood of reintroduction and commercial success for omontys in the u.s.   outside of the u.s., takeda holds an exclusive license to develop and commercialize omontys and has primary responsibility for filing regulatory submissions and obtaining product approvals in those territories, including in europe and japan. as a consequence, any progress and commercial success in those territories is dependent solely on takeda's efforts and commitment to the program. takeda's decision in december 2011 not to commercialize the product in japan and the delay or failure to secure a third party to commercialize the product in a timely manner may significantly reduce the commercial opportunity in that territory when and if we reintroduce omontys.  in addition, takeda may delay, reduce or terminate development efforts relating to the product elsewhere, independently develop products that compete with the product, or fail to commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of the product. competing products or programs, either developed by takeda or to which our collaboration partners have rights or acquire in the future, may result in our partners' withdrawal of support for the product.   in the event that takeda fails to diligently commercialize omontys, our collaboration and co-promotion agreements provide us the right to allege breach and if successfully asserted, terminate our partner's rights in certain instances. however, our ability to enforce the diligence provisions and establish breach of takeda's diligence or other obligations so as to obtain meaningful recourse within a reasonable timeframe is uncertain. further, any decision to pursue available remedies including termination would impact the potential success of omontys, and we may choose not to terminate as we may not be able to find another partner and any new collaboration likely will not provide comparable financial terms to those in our arrangement with takeda.  in the event of our termination, this may require us to commercialize the product on our own, which is likely to result in significant additional expense and delay.  significant changes in takeda's business strategy, resource commitment and the willingness or ability of takeda to complete its obligations under our arrangement could materially affect the potential success of the product, including the reintroductionof omontys when and if it occurs. we have limited ability to control and influence takeda in its strategic decisions.  this is particularly important should we reintroduce and further commercialize omontys in the u.s. if takeda were to breach or terminate either of our collaboration agreements or otherwise inadequately perform or fail to perform its obligations thereunder in a timely manner, the reintroduction and commercialization of omontys would be delayed, terminated or negatively impacted.  moreover, if takeda fails to successfully develop and commercialize omontys outside of the u.s., our potential to generate future revenue in the takeda territory would be significantly reduced.   significant challenges remain with us and takeda to manufacture omontys on a commercial scale should we reintroduce omontys. our dependence upon third parties for manufacture and supply may cause delays in, or prevent us from, successfully reintroducing and commercializing omontys. in accordance with the terms of our collaboration, takeda has responsibility for manufacture of finished product and as a consequence, we have limited ability to control risks associated with that portion of the manufacturing process.  manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our product sales and have a material adverse effect on our business. in connection with the recall and in consultation with takeda, we plan to suspend manufacturing activities to the extent practicable pending consideration of next steps with omontys. if we are successful in identifying the cause of the recent safety concerns and addressing it, we and takeda will determine the next appropriate steps to take with omontys. prior to such time, we plan to evaluate strategies to decrease our ongoing manufacturing costs and commitments, including but not limited to, termination of orders and agreements, which may negatively impact our ability to reintroduce omontys. if we are able to reintroduce omontys, we intend to continue to rely on third-party manufacturers to produce api, which may require significant effort and validation of new cmos. while we and takeda are actively investigating to determine the cause of the recent safety concerns, we cannot give any assurances as to whether we can be successful in doing so. our inability to determine the cause of the recent safety concerns and find and implement a solution to address it may render us unable to reintroduce and manufacture omontys.   21 table of contents even if we are able to reintroduce omontys, the omontys manufacturing process is complicated and time consuming. manufacture of omontys api involves long lead times with our cmos and suppliers. manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our product.  we do not currently have the infrastructure or capability internally to manufacture the omontys needed to conduct our clinical trials or to commercialize the product. we have relied, and will continue to rely, on cmos to produce our clinical trial materials for the foreseeable future and we expect to continue to rely on cmos, partners and other third parties to produce sufficient quantities of omontys for all our uses, including commercialization. when and if we reintroduce omontys, if our cmos or other third parties fail to deliver materials for the manufacture of omontys, or omontys itself, on a timely basis, with sufficient quality and at commercially reasonable prices, and if we fail to find replacement manufacturers or to develop our own manufacturing capabilities, we may have to delay or suspend future clinical trials or otherwise delay or discontinue commercialization or production.   omontys is a new chemical entity and the manufacturing process for commercial scale production in accordance with applicable regulatory guidelines remains challenging and as such, there are risks associated with the commercial scale manufacture of the api. similar challenges exist for the manufacture of finished product that must meet a variety of regulatory requirements that vary from country to country and continue to change. any of these risks and others may prevent or delay us from successfully reintroducing and commercializing omontys, including the following:  • product quality issues;  • cost overruns, process scale-up, process reproducibility;  • changes in demand forecasts that result in inventory write-offs; • difficulties in maintaining or upgrading equipment and manufacturing facilities on a timely basis; and  • regulatory issues or changes that may cause significant modifications in the manufacturing process or facilities or otherwise impact our ability to offer competitive product presentations or formulations.   while we continue to be responsible for the manufacture of api based on takeda's forecasts, we have transferred responsibility for the manufacture of omontys finished product to takeda, and we therefore have limited control and ability to address risks associated with that portion of the manufacturing process. further, some of our, and takeda's, operations, suppliers and manufacturers are currently, and planned to be, single-sourced, leaving us at greater risk of supply interruptions, potential delays and failure to successfully commercialize.   we, takeda, and our third-party manufacturers are required to comply with applicable fda manufacturing practice and other applicable regulations. if there is any failure by us, takeda or one of our third-party manufacturers or suppliers to maintain compliance with these regulations, the production of omontys could be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs should we reintroduce omontys. due to the product recall of omontys, manufacturing activities have also been significantly reduced. if for any reason these third parties are unable or unwilling to perform under our agreements or enter into new agreements with us, we may not be able to locate alternative manufacturers or enter into favorable agreements with them in an expeditious manner. this could result in further losses and reduced profits that we share from the sale of omontys. any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of omontys or components thereof in a timely manner from third parties could delay clinical trials or result in product shortages and prevent us from reintroducing and commercializing omontys in a cost-effective manner or on a timely basis. further, our lack of experience providing reliable supply of product may deter health care providers and dialysis centers from selecting, or switching to, omontys from our competitors' products or from continuing to use omontys should it be reintroduced. it is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection.   our success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of omontys and any other product candidates we may pursue, their use and the methods used to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. our ability to protect omontys from unauthorized making, using, selling, offering to sell or importation by third parties is dependent upon the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents, or have trade secrets that cover these activities.   we have licensed from third parties rights to numerous issued patents and patent applications. the rights that we acquire from licensors or collaborators are protected by patents and proprietary rights owned by them, and we rely on the patent protection and rights established or acquired by them. the remaining patent terms may not provide meaningful protection. 22 table of contents moreover, third parties may challenge the patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights held by our licensors or collaborators. we generally do not unilaterally control the prosecution of patent applications licensed from third parties. accordingly, we are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we may exercise over internally developed intellectual property.   even if we are able to obtain issued patents, any patent may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. the existence of a patent will not necessarily protect us from competition or from claims of a third party that our products infringe their issued patents. no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the u.s. the biotechnology patent situation outside the u.s. is even more uncertain. competitors may successfully challenge our patents, produce similar drugs or products that do not infringe our patents, or produce drugs in countries where we have not applied for patent protection or that do not respect our patents. accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our licensed patents, in our patents or in third-party patents or applications therefor.   the degree of future protection to be afforded by our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. for example:   • others may be able to make similar compounds but that are not covered by the claims of our patents, or for which we are not licensed under our license agreements;   • we or our licensors or collaborators might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our pending patent applications or the pending patent applications and issued patents of our licensors;   • we or our licensors or collaborators might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions;   • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing our intellectual property rights;   • it is possible that our pending patent applications will not result in issued patents;   • our issued patents and the issued patents of our licensors or collaborators may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties;   • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or   • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business.   we also may rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. however, trade secrets are difficult to protect. although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. in addition, courts outside the u.s. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. our r&d collaborators may have rights to publish data and other information to which we have rights. in addition, we sometimes engage individuals or entities to conduct research that may be relevant to our business. the ability of these individuals or entities to publish or otherwise publicly disclose data and other information generated during the course of their research is subject to certain contractual limitations. these contractual provisions may be insufficient or inadequate to protect our trade secrets and may impair our patent rights. if we do not apply for patent protection prior to such publication or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be jeopardized.   we may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or use, our technology.   our ability, and the ability of our commercial partners, to reintroduce and commercialize omontys will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, enforce those patents and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. 23 table of contents the patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. we have filed multiple u.s. patent applications and foreign counterparts related to omontys and other programs as well as underlying platform technologies and may file additional u.s. and foreign patent applications related thereto. there can be no assurance that any issued patents we own or control will provide sufficient protection to conduct our business as presently conducted or as proposed to be conducted, that any patents will issue from the patent applications owned by us, or that we will remain free from infringement claims by third parties.   the failure to obtain adequate patent protection would have a material adverse effect on us and may adversely affect our ability to enter into, or affect the terms of, any arrangement for the further development and marketing of any product. there can also be no assurance that patents owned by us will not be challenged by others. we could incur substantial costs in proceedings, including interference proceedings before the u.s. patent and trademark office and comparable proceedings before similar agencies in other countries in connection with any claims that may arise in the future. these proceedings could result in adverse decisions about the patentability of our inventions and products, as well as about the enforceability, validity or scope of protection afforded by our patents.   patent applications in the u.s. and elsewhere are published only after 18 months from the priority date. the publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made. therefore, patent applications relating to products similar to omontys and any future products may have already been filed by others without our knowledge. in the event an infringement claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay substantial legal and other expenses to defend such a claim and, if we are unsuccessful in defending the claim, we may be prevented from pursuing related product development and commercialization and may be subject to damage awards.   any future patent litigation, interference or other administrative proceedings will result in additional expense and distraction of our personnel. an adverse outcome in such litigation or proceedings may expose us or our collaborators to loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially acceptable terms or at all. in addition, we may be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or reintroducing and commercializing omontys or from developing, manufacturing and selling any future products in the event of an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or if we fail to obtain necessary licenses. if it is determined that we have infringed an issued patent, we could be compelled to pay significant damages, including punitive damages.   virtually all of our competitors are able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. in addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations, in-license technology that we need, out-license our existing technologies or enter into collaborations that would assist in commercially exploiting any technology. we may be unable to continue our operations, meet our obligations, and reintroduce and commercialize omontys as a result of our recent reorganization plan, further reductions in force or any loss of services of senior management and key personnel.    we are highly dependent upon our senior management and key personnel, however, due to the significant challenges to our business, our recent reorganization and further reductions in force, or the loss of any of their services, for any reason, could negatively impact our operations. we will need to maintain personnel as we investigate the cause of the safety concerns related to omontys, search for and implement a solution to address it, potentially reintroduce and further commercialize omontys and conduct post-marketing studies and trials. competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals field is intense. we may not be able to maintain personnel on acceptable terms. in addition, each of our officers and key personnel may terminate his/her employment at any time without notice and without cause or good reason.    risks related to our industry   even though omontys approval by the fda has not been permanently withdrawn, the omontys approval is subject to continued fda inspection of the safety concerns leading to the recall. ongoing fda review may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to reintroduce and successfully commercialize omontys.   although the fda approval of omontys has not been withdrawn, the fda may choose to do so as the investigation continues or to subject us to various post-marketing requirements, including additional clinical trials, and the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. the recent cases of reported patients' serious hypersensitivity reactions to 24 table of contents omontys and any other subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in withdrawal or restrictions on the marketing of the product, and could include regulatory actions from the fda.  the actions the fda may take include, permanent withdrawal, additional studies or label restrictions, the use of informed consents, the addition of more restrictive rems, further lowering of target hemoglobin levels, or even the removal of indications from the label altogether. in addition, the fda's policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay successful reintroduction and commercialization of omontys. we cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the u.s. or abroad. if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market omontys, or any future product, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability.   if we fail to comply with federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse and healthcare privacy and security laws, we could face substantial penalties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   we are subject to federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse and healthcare privacy and security laws.  the healthcare laws that may affect our ability to operate include:   • federal “sunshine” laws that require transparency regarding financial arrangements with healthcare providers, such as the reporting and disclosure requirements imposed on drug manufacturers by the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act, or collectively, ppaca, regarding any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other health care providers; • the federal healthcare programs' anti-kickback law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the medicare and medicaid programs; • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters; • the federal food, drug and cosmetic act, which prohibits, among other things, individuals or entities from introducing into interstate commerce any food, drug, device or cosmetic that has been adulterated or misbranded; and • state law equivalents of certain of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers.   in addition, california, and other states such as massachusetts and vermont, mandate implementation of comprehensive compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws.   many of these laws have not been fully interpreted by applicable regulatory authorities or the courts and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations, which increases the risk that we may be found in violation of these laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including medicare and medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of operations. the recall has severely harmed our business and financial condition and prospects as a going concern and we may not be able to continue the business and operations of the company. accordingly, we may face challenges to maintain operations and a compliance program that are in material compliance with these laws. because of the far-reaching nature of these laws and the significant disruption to our operations resulting from the recall, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance, or that the occurrence of one or more violations would not result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad and obtaining certain regulatory milestones through our takeda collaboration.   25 table of contents we co-marketed omontys in the u.s. before our recent recall of omontys, and have exclusively licensed takeda to market the product in foreign jurisdictions. when and if we reintroduce omontys, in order to market the product in the e.u. and other foreign jurisdictions, takeda or a sublicensee must obtain separate regulatory approvals. we have had limited interactions with foreign regulatory authorities, and the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain fda approval. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries. the foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining fda approval. in addition, there are a number of esas available in the e.u. and other foreign markets, and therefore it may be more challenging to obtain regulatory approval in such markets because the risk/benefit analysis for approval may be different than in the u.s. foreign regulatory approvals may not be obtained on a timely basis, if at all. if we or takeda, as part of our collaboration, are not able to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign market, then we will not be able to commercialize omontys in any foreign market, and we will not obtain certain regulatory milestones from takeda.   foreign governments often impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability.   when and if we reintroduce omontys in the u.s., we intend to seek approval to market the product, through our takeda collaboration, in foreign jurisdictions. if we obtain approval in one or more foreign jurisdictions, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to our product. in some foreign countries, particularly in the e.u., prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. in these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a drug candidate. to obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of the product to other available therapies or a clinical trial that studies pharmacoeconomic benefits. if reimbursement of the product is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability.   we may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities.   we use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business and are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials and waste products comply with these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages. we are uninsured for third-party contamination injury. risks related to the ownership of our common stock we have been named as a defendant in a purported securities class action lawsuit. this lawsuit could result in substantial damages and may divert management's time and attention from our business and operations. on february 27, 2013, a purported securities class action complaint was filed in the u.s. district court for the northern district of california, naming as defendants us, certain of our officers, takeda, takeda pharmaceuticals u.s.a., inc. and takeda global research & development center, inc. the complaint, filed on behalf of a putative class of persons who purchased our common stock between december 8, 2011 and february 22, 2013, or the class period, alleges violations of sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, in connection with allegedly false and misleading statements made by the defendants regarding our company's business practices, financial projections and other disclosures during the class period. the complaint seeks damages, costs and expenses and such other relief as determined by the court, and the complainant seeks to represent a class comprised of purchasers of our common stock during the class period. a response to the complaint is not yet due. our management believes that we have meritorious defenses and intends to defend this lawsuit vigorously. however, this lawsuit is subject to inherent uncertainties, and the actual cost will depend upon many unknown factors. the outcome of the litigation is necessarily uncertain, we could be forced to expend significant resources in the defense of the suit and we may not prevail. monitoring and defending against legal actions is time consuming for our management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities. in addition, we may incur substantial legal fees and costs in connection with the litigation and, although we believe our company is entitled to coverage under the relevant insurance policies, subject to a retention, coverage could be denied or prove to be insufficient. we are not currently able to estimate the possible cost to us from this matter, as this lawsuit is currently at an early stage and we cannot be certain how long it may take 26 table of contents to resolve this matter or the possible amount of any damages that we may be required to pay. we have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to this lawsuit. it is possible that we could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages. a decision adverse to our interests on these actions could result in the payment of substantial damages, or possibly fines, and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial position. in addition, the uncertainty of the currently pending litigation could lead to more volatility in our stock price.   the market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and is likely to remain highly volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price.   the trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. for the 52 weeks ended december 31, 2012, the closing price of our common stock ranged between a high of $27.46 per share and a low of $6.50 per share. the closing price for our common stock as reported by the nasdaq global select market on february 28, 2013 was $2.65 per share. our stock is expected to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our ability to rapidly identify and address the cause of the safety concerns related to omontys; • our ability to demonstrate safety of omontys to the satisfaction of the fda and reintroduce such product; • our ability to fund our operations and continue as a going concern; • litigation, including the purported securities class action lawsuit pending against us and certain of our officers;  • changes in the market valuations of similar companies;  • actual or anticipated results from, and any delays in, commercialization of omontys should we reintroduce omontys; • actual or anticipated contractual arrangements for omontys should we reintroduce omontys or competing products; • actual or anticipated changes in our funding requirements, capital resources and our ability to obtain financing and the terms thereof; • actual or anticipated actions taken by regulatory agencies including the fda and cms with respect to esas generally or omontys specifically; • new products or services introduced or announced by us or our collaboration partners, or our competitors, including roche's mircera or biosimilars, and the timing of these introductions or announcements;  • actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to clinical trials, manufacturing process or sales and marketing activities;  • changes in laws or regulations applicable to omontys;  • the success of our efforts to discover, acquire or in-license additional products or product candidates;  • developments concerning our collaborations, including but not limited to those with our sources of manufacturing supply and our commercialization partners; •  actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;  • announcements of technological innovations by us, our collaborators or our competitors; • actual or anticipated changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries; 27 table of contents • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • general economic and market conditions and other factors that may be unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; • sales of common stock or other securities by us or our stockholders in the future;  • additions or departures of key management or other personnel;  • developments relating to proprietary rights held by us or our competitors;  • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; and • trading volume of our common stock.   in addition, the stock market in general and the market for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. raising funds through our current credit arrangement may restrict our operations or place further restrictions on our operations.   in march 2012, we entered into a $30.0 million loan agreement with oxford finance llc and silicon valley bank.  we initially drew $10.0 million under this agreement and are subject to a variety of affirmative and negative covenants, including required financial reporting, limitations on certain dispositions of assets, limitations on the incurrence of additional debt and other requirements. to secure our performance of our obligations under this loan and security agreement, we granted a security interest in substantially all of our assets, other than intellectual property assets, to the lenders. our failure to comply with the terms of the loan and security agreement, the occurrence of a material impairment in our prospect of repayment or in the perfection or priority of the lender's lien on our assets, as determined by the lenders, or the occurrence of certain other specified events could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt, potential foreclosure on our assets, and other adverse results. further, we may be in breach as the voluntary recall may be considered a material adverse event under the loan agreement. failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.   the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. we have not identified any material weaknesses in our internal controls during the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 or 2010. we did identify a material weakness in the operation of our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the second quarter of 2008 which has been fully remediated. we cannot assure you that material weaknesses in our internal controls will not be identified in future periods. there can be no assurance that we will successfully and timely report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future periods. if we do experience a material weakness in internal controls in future periods, then investor confidence, our stock price and our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected.   a control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. because of inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues, if any, within an organization have been detected. we continue to implement, improve and refine our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting. the recall of omontys has severely harmed our business and financial condition so we may have challenges in maintaining our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting.   future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall.   28 table of contents sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market that were previously restricted from sale, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. in the event that we do raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities, the dilution represented by the additional shares of our equity securities in the public market could cause our stock price to fall, in which case investors may not be able to sell their shares of our equity securities at a price equal to or above the price they paid to acquire them.   our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income or future tax will be limited and may be further limited in the future due to ownership changes that have occurred or may occur in the future.   in general, under sections 382 and 383 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses, or nols, and certain other tax assets to offset future taxable income. in general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). an ownership change could limit our ability to utilize our nol and tax credit carryforwards for taxable years including or following such “ownership change”. prior to 2012, we experienced ownership changes as defined by sections 382 and 383 of the internal revenue code. due to our announcement of our voluntary recall of omontys in february 2013, there has been an extremely high volume of trading of our stock, which has caused a significant drop in the value of our stock. as a result of the high trading volume, there may be a shift of ownership amongst our 5% stockholders that could result in an ownership change, under section 382 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. limitations imposed on the ability to use nols and tax credits to offset future taxable income could require us to pay u.s. federal income taxes earlier than would otherwise be required if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such nols and tax credits to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such nols and tax credits. similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. some provisions of our charter documents and delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders.   provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders.   these provisions include:   • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval;  • limiting the removal of directors by the stockholders;  • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;   • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders;  • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; and  • our board of directors is classified, consisting of three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms, with each class consisting as nearly as possible of one third of the total number of directors.   in addition, we are subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which generally prohibits a delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. this provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. item 1b.    unresolved