item 1a. risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this report, and in other documents we file with the sec, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and in our other public statements. because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. these risks are not presented in order of importance or probability of occurrence. risks related to our business and industry risks relating to our finances and operations our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance and could cause our stock price to fluctuate. our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future results. these fluctuations may be due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. as a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and investors should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. in general, our product revenue reflects orders shipped in the same quarter that orders are received. in addition, we receive a substantial portion of our orders for each fiscal quarter in the last month of that fiscal quarter, which is a trend we expect to continue. we face risks of both under-estimating and over-estimating the amount and timing of orders from our customers. on the one hand, even though we may have business indicators about customer demand during a quarter, if we are unable to ship enough product to fulfill the orders we receive in the last month of each fiscal quarter, we would be forced to delay those shipments and the revenue that goes with those orders. on the other hand, because our budgeted expense levels depend in part on our expectations of future revenue, if the orders we receive in the last month of each fiscal quarter do not meet our expectations, we may not be able to reduce our costs quickly enough to compensate for the amount of unexpected revenue shortfall. if either of these eventualities were to occur, we would expect our revenue to be adversely affected, and we might fail to meet securities analysts' and investors' expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. in addition to other risks listed in this “risk factors” section, factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • the impact of unfavorable worldwide economic and market conditions; • the amount of orders booked but not shipped in prior quarters that are shipped in the current quarter; • reductions in customers' budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; • the sale of our products in the timeframes we anticipate, including the number and size of orders in each quarter; • our dependence on several large vertical markets, including the government, health care, retail, enterprise and education vertical markets; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses, and the costs of the components we purchase; • product mix and average selling prices, as well as increased discounting of products by us and our competitors; • our ability to maintain volume manufacturing pricing from our contract manufacturers and component suppliers; • our contract manufacturers' and component suppliers' ability to meet our product demand forecasts; • any decision to increase or decrease operating expenses in response to changes in the marketplace or perceived marketplace opportunities; • our ability to derive benefits from our investments in sales, marketing, engineering or other activities; • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock compensation expenses; • the timing of revenue recognition in any given quarter as a result of timing of the orders meeting the relevant revenue recognition criteria; • fluctuations in our tax rate due to various factors, including the mix of our domestic and international revenue; • the impact of one-time events, such as acquisitions and litigation settlements; • the regulatory environment for the certification and sale of our products; and • seasonal demand for our products, some of which may not be currently evident due to our revenue growth during recent fiscal years. our prospects should be considered and evaluated in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in rapidly evolving markets characterized by rapid technological change of our size, resources and operating history. because our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict even in the near term, in one or more future quarterly periods, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors or below any guidance we may 12 table of contents provide to the market. if this were to occur, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. stock price declines could occur, and have occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenue and/or earnings guidance. our business, operating results and growth rates may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. our business depends significantly on economic conditions generally and the demand for products and services in the enterprise mobility market specifically. global economic conditions have been challenging due to the recent recession, adverse global credit conditions, low economic growth, high unemployment rates, reduced capital spending, and uncertainty regarding the u.s. federal budget and the recent sequestration. in addition, the sovereign debt default risks in certain european union countries as well as conflicts in the middle east and elsewhere have created political and economic uncertainties that have impacted, and continue to impact, worldwide markets. economic growth in the u.s. and many other countries remains low and the length of time these adverse economic conditions may persist is unknown. these global and regional adverse economic conditions directly and indirectly impact our customers and the decisions they make regarding whether to make capital commitments and spend resources on it generally and our solutions in particular. a customer's decision to purchase our solutions, or to replace existing infrastructure, tends to be discretionary and generally involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources. as a result, when our customers and potential customers are faced with weak economic conditions, we can expect one or more of the following reactions: reductions in overall it expenditures, longer sales cycles, demand for lower prices, requests for longer payment terms, reduced unit sales, and purchases of lower cost solutions with fewer features. these types of customer reactions have in the past resulted in (and may in the future continue to result in) delayed sales cycles, canceled sales and lower overall revenues, which have (as we experienced in the third quarter of fiscal 2013) negatively impacted (and may again negatively impact) our ability to meet our financial forecasts and achieve our expected rates of growth. although we would expect the impacts of these customer reactions to ameliorate as economic conditions improve, one or all of these reactions could continue or increase even if global and regional economic and market conditions become more favorable. although demand for products and services in the enterprise mobility market has continued to grow despite the global economic slowdown, the rate of that growth has slowed. we believe that the adverse global economic climate has played (and will continue to play) a roll in the slower growth rates for products and services in the enterprise mobility market, including our suite of solutions. if the overall market demand for the types of solutions we sell does not grow or fails to grow at the rates we expect (and we do not otherwise increase our share of the market), then our revenue, business and operating results would likely be adversely impacted. in addition, if interest rates were to rise or foreign exchange rates were to weaken for our international customers, overall demand for our solutions could be further dampened, and related it spending might be reduced. furthermore, any increase in worldwide commodity prices might result in higher component prices and increased shipping costs, both of which would be likely to negatively impact our financial results. we expect our gross margin to vary over time and our recent level of product gross margin may not be sustainable. fluctuations and/or declines in our gross margin could cause our stock price to decline. our product gross margins vary from quarter to quarter. for example, our level of product margins declined in fiscal 2013 relative to fiscal 2012 and may continue to decline and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including: changes in the mix of products sold in our channel, the percentage of revenue we receive from international regions, increased price competition and discounting pressures, increases in material, labor or other manufacturing-related costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, write-downs for obsolete or excess inventory, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if our forecasts do not accurately anticipate product demand, timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals, warranty-related issues, product discounting, freight charges, or our introduction of new products or new product platforms or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. if one or more of these factors were to impact our results, our gross margin may be adversely affected, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. access to capital and ability to bid for acquisitions against much larger capitalized competitors could prevent us from making acquisitions, which could cause us to forego opportunities that would otherwise have increased our market share or expanded our product portfolio. we have in the past, and may in the future, seek to acquire businesses or technologies to stimulate our growth, enhance our existing solutions, acquire additional talented employees and/or foster our ability to bring new solutions to market. we intend to address these needs through acquisitions of other companies, business divisions, technologies, and personnel. 13 table of contents however, even if we are able to identify attractive acquisition targets, we may not be able to complete those acquisitions, which could negatively impact our growth strategy and cause us to unnecessarily expend management time and other resources. in any competitive bidding contest for an attractive acquisition target, we may not be able to provide the most attractive offer because several of our competitors have significantly greater cash available for acquisitions. as a result, we may be required to make our offer contingent upon obtaining outside equity or debt financing, which could be perceived by the target as inferior to a non-contingent cash offer, even if our offer were higher. in addition, our larger competitors have greater resources than we do to devote to identifying potential acquisition targets, which also puts us at a competitive disadvantage. if our larger competitors are successful in identifying more candidates and/or placing more favorable bids for target companies, we would be compelled to forego opportunities that otherwise might have increased our market share, employee count or technologies. we may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. in the event we are successful in acquiring new businesses, products or technologies, we will face additional risks, including the following: • difficulties in integrating the personnel, operations, systems (including financial reporting and internal control systems), technologies and products of the acquired companies, particularly companies located in foreign jurisdictions or with widespread operations and/or complex products; • challenges in retaining and motivating key personnel from these acquired businesses, particularly those critical to the continued success of those businesses; • markets not evolving as we anticipated or acquired technologies not proving to be those needed to be successful in our markets; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations, or in managing geographically or culturally diverse locations; • acquired product quality complications; • diversion of management attention from normal daily operations; • challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations; • difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development (r&d) intangibles; • challenges in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience that have strong competitors; • challenges of creating a new go-to market sales action for acquired products outside our traditional area of expertise; • increased expenses without sufficient offsetting revenue from the acquired business; • failure to achieve targeted cost and revenue synergies; • acquired business liabilities, including claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement; • initial dependence on unfamiliar or small supply partners; and • loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of both us and the companies we acquire. in addition, even if we manage these integration and other risks, the acquisition may fall short of our expectations and may not strengthen our competitive position or otherwise achieve our goals. moreover, any future acquisition could be viewed negatively by financial markets or investors, which could cause a decline in our stock price. depending on the terms of the acquisitions, we could be required to take one or more of the following actions: • issue shares of our common stock, which would cause dilution; • use a substantial portion of our cash resources, or incur debt, which may require us to agree to restrictive financial covenants; • assume known or unknown liabilities; • record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that are subject to potential periodic impairment charges; • incur amortization expenses related to intangible assets; • incur tax expenses related to the acquisition effect on our intercompany cost sharing arrangement and legal structure; or • incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring expenses. certain acquisition candidates in the industries in which we participate, particularly in the software business, may carry higher relative valuations (based on earnings multiples) than we do. acquiring a business may be dilutive to our earnings, especially if the acquired business has little or no revenue. ultimately, mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and we cannot assure investors that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful. 14 table of contents if we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business would be harmed. we have expanded our operations and anticipate that further expansion will be required in order to sustain and increase our growth. we intend to increase our market penetration and extend our geographic sales reach both domestically and internationally through our network of channel partners and by increasing our direct sales force. we have increased our offshore operations by establishing additional offshore capabilities for certain engineering and general and administrative functions in china, india and ireland, which we plan to continue. this growth has placed and, we expect it will continue to place, significant demands on our management, infrastructure and other resources. to manage any future growth, we will need to hire, integrate and retain highly skilled and motivated employees. we will also need to continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may experience a wide variety of negative impacts to our business. for example, we expect that our continued growth will require us to make significant investments in information technology, or it, infrastructure. if we do not timely purchase or properly implement these it infrastructure purchases, we could inaccurately forecast customer demand for a particular product, which could lead to insufficient inventory and then lost sales opportunities. alternatively, if our it systems fail to operate as we intend, we could overestimate demand and finish a quarter with obsolete or excess inventory. if any of these were to occur, our growth rate could be impeded. in addition, if our it systems and related control environments are insufficient to scale with the growth of our operations, we may identify one or more significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. if this were to occur, we could miss a filing deadline for one of our periodic reports, which could in turn cause investors to lose confidence in us, negatively impact our ability to access the capital market and cause our stock price to decline. also, any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination within our organization. we may not be able to successfully implement improvements to our systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner to manage our increasingly disparate and complex organization, which could result in additional operating inefficiencies and could cause our costs to increase more than planned, negatively impact our ability to provide high quality products and services, damage our reputation and brand, and ultimately reduce our rate of growth and harm our business. in our recent history we have incurred net losses and we may not achieve profitability in the future. we have a history of losses, with a few quarters of profitability during fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011. we reported a net loss of $31.6 million for fiscal 2013, a net loss of $8.9 million for fiscal 2012 and net income of $70.7 million for fiscal 2011. as of july 31, 2013 and 2012, our accumulated deficit was $145.4 million and $113.8 million, respectively. expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business, including expenditures to hire and retain additional personnel for sales and marketing and technology development, as well as costs of investing in infrastructure and it systems to sustain our business, could limit our ability to sustain operating profits. if we fail to increase revenue or manage our cost structure, we may not achieve profitability again in the future. as a result, our business could be harmed, and our stock price could decline. impairment of our goodwill or other assets would negatively affect our results of operations. our acquisitions have resulted in total goodwill of $67.2 million and intangible assets, net of $26.9 million as of july 31, 2013. goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually. other intangible assets that are deemed to have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives but reviewed for impairment upon certain events or changes in circumstances. screening for and assessing whether impairment indicators exist, or if events or changes in circumstances have occurred, requires significant judgment. therefore, it is possible that a charge to operations might occur as a result of future goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests. if goodwill or intangible assets were deemed to be impaired, an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the assets would be recognized, which would result in incremental expenses for that quarter and a reduction to any earnings or an increase to any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. if and when these write-downs occur, they could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. no goodwill or long-lived assets impairment charges were recorded during fiscal 2013, 2012, or 2011. as in the past, any future economic weakness could cause price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that might also reduce the market price of our common stock. declines in our stock price, level of revenues or gross margins would increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets might become impaired in future periods, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, in response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. any decision to 15 table of contents limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. we may need to raise additional funds in the future and those funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. we may, however, need to raise substantial additional capital to: fund our operations, continue our research and development, develop and commercialize new products, acquire companies, license products or other intellectual property, expand sales and marketing activities, or repurchase shares of our common stock. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including:  customer acceptance of our solutions, cost of our research and development efforts, cost of establishing additional sales, marketing and distribution channels, cost of defending and prosecuting intellectual property infringement claims, competition from our competitors, including pricing pressures that negatively affect our gross margins, the market for different types of funding and overall economic conditions, and the cost of building out our infrastructure. we may require additional funds in the future, and we may not be able to obtain those funds on acceptable terms, or at all. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. any debt or additional equity financing that we might raise could contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. if we do not have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient funds, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our products, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. if we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to liquidate some or all of our assets, or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our development programs. we also may have to reduce sales, marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations. any of these actions could harm our operating results. risks relating to our products, target market and competition the market in which we compete is highly competitive, and competitive pressures from existing and new companies may have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, growth rates and market share. the enterprise mobility market in which we compete is highly competitive and is influenced by the following factors: • comprehensiveness of our solutions; • performance, reliability and features of our solutions; • average sales price (including the size of any discounts), total cost of ownership, and return-on-investment; • ability to introduce new products quickly and efficiently; • ability to easily deploy and operate our solutions in our customers' existing networks; • interoperability of our solutions with other devices; • scalability of our solutions; • ability to reduce production costs; • brand awareness and reputation; • strength and scale of sales and marketing efforts, professional services and customer support; • ability to provide secure mobile access to the network; • speed of mobile connectivity offering; • ability to allow centralized management of products; and • ability to conform to standards and obtain regulatory and other industry certifications. currently, we compete with a number of large and well-established public companies in the broader edge-access market (primarily in the wlan space), including cisco systems, inc., hewlett-packard company and motorola solutions, inc., as well as smaller public and private companies and new market entrants. a number of our current or potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. as a result, these competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services, better initiate or withstand substantial price competition, more readily take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities, more quickly develop and expand their product and service offerings, more quickly anticipate, influence or adapt to new or emerging technologies and customer requirements than we can. 16 table of contents competitors offering a broader range of products than we offer have in the past bundled (and may in the future continue to bundle) products in a manner that makes it challenging for us to compete based on price. some of these competitors also may have the ability to leverage their relationships with customers based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products to gain business in a manner that discourages customers from purchasing our products. we expect competition to intensify in the future based on the following factors: • continued consolidation among our competitors; • emergence of new companies as competitors in our markets or new markets in which we elect to participate; • expansion by us into new geographic and product markets with new competitors (including companies outside of the traditional infrastructure market) as we broaden our offering of solutions; • introduction by other companies of new products in the markets we serve or intend to enter; • marketing of competitive products and services by our channel partners; and • the rapid pace of technological advancement. for example, some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships with one another to offer more comprehensive solutions than they individually had offered. we expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions. the companies resulting from these consolidations could create more compelling product offerings and offer greater pricing flexibility, either or which would make competing on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, technology or product functionality more difficult for us. continued industry consolidation may adversely impact customers' perceptions of the viability of medium-sized technology companies and, consequently, customers' willingness to purchase from such companies. in addition, we can expect competition to develop from new market entrants, which could include our channel partners and customers. if our channel partners purchase companies that compete with us or otherwise begin to market products and services that compete with our products and services, the resulting pressures could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition in a material way and may even result in the termination of our relationship with those channel partners. any actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and/or resellers by competitors, is likely to increase the competitive pressures faced by us as customers may delay spending decisions or not purchase our products at all. as we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions from existing companies with strong technological, marketing and sales positions in those markets. in particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in asia, especially from china, and we anticipate this will continue. moreover, companies with whom we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, which could negatively impact our existing business relationship with these companies and harm our business. competitive products may have better performance, more and/or better features, lower prices and broader acceptance than our products. as a result, if we do not keep pace with product and technology advances, there could be a material adverse effect on our competitive position, revenue and prospects for growth. even if we keep pace with technological advances and market products with better performance or features than our competitors, potential customers may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers (or a single provider) rather than a new supplier, regardless of product performance or features. each of these competitive factors could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margin, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase (or the loss of) market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. if the market for our products and services does not continue to grow as we expect, our sales, future operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. we develop and provide enterprise mobility products and services. the success of our business depends substantially on the continued growth and reliance on wi-fi in these markets. the recent growth of the market for wi-fi networks is being driven by the increased use of wi-fi-enabled mobile devices and the use of wi-fi as a preferred connectivity option to support video, voice and other higher-bandwidth uses. as one of the leading providers of enterprise mobility products and services that operate in a wi-fi environment, our year-over-year sales growth depends in part on the growth of the wi-fi market as a whole. we expect the market for wi-fi in general to continue to grow in the near future, but there can be no guarantee that future growth rates will be consistent with average historical growth rates. moreover, even though we have continued to grow with the wi-fi market, growth in the wi-fi market as a whole may be driven in any given year by particular segments of the market in which we have a less significant presence, in which case we would not expect to necessarily grow in lock step with the larger market. there are a number of reasons why the wi-fi market as a whole and the enterprise mobility market in particular may not continue to grow at the rate we expect, including: lower customer adoption rates than we forecast for our new technologies, customer use of alternative technologies (such as 4g and licensed spectrum) to address mobility requirements, increased use by 17 table of contents enterprise customers of low-cost, consumer-grade, or customers purchasing wi-fi products or managed services from partners with whom we do not have broad, or any, relationships. in the event that continued growth and reliance on wi-fi slows in the markets we serve, we would expect that our sales, future operating results and financial condition would be negatively impacted. our products are highly technical and may contain undetected hardware errors or software bugs, which could cause harm to our reputation and adversely affect our business. our products are highly technical and complex and, when deployed, are critical to the operation of many networks. we have focused, and intend to focus in the future, on getting our new products to market quickly. due to our rapid product introductions, defects and bugs that may be contained in our products may not have manifested prior to shipment. we cannot provide assurance that our pre-shipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects. as a result, some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers. any errors, bugs, defects, malware or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in temporary or permanent withdrawal of a product, monetary penalties, decreased customer satisfaction, loss of current or prospective customers, damage to our brand and reputation, reduced sales opportunities, loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, reduction in the market acceptance of our new products or new versions of our products, increased development costs, incurrence of product reengineering expenses, increased inventory costs and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, including claims relating to changes to our products made by our channel partners. our contracts with customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention and adversely affect the market's perception of us and our products. in addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. we depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to our existing products. if we fail to predict and respond to the end-customers' changing needs or to emerging technological trends and industry standards, we may not be able to remain competitive and our business, operating results, financial condition and market share could be adversely affected. the enterprise mobility market in which we participate is characterized by quickly changing end-customer needs and rapidly evolving technological trends and industry standards, which result in the frequent introduction of new products and services. for example, changes in customer network architectures are driving a demand for, among other things, cloud-based solutions. to succeed, we must accurately anticipate and rapidly adapt to the new device purchases and application preferences of our end-user customers, quickly react to other technological advances that affect our market, and out-pace our competitors by bringing new products, features and services to market that will meet the latest customer demands, market trends and regulatory requirements. if, for any reason, we fail to successfully react to these market pressures and do not bring competitive new products to market in a timely fashion, then we may not be able to remain competitive and our business, operating results, financial condition and market share could be adversely affected. adaptability to changing end-customer habits and needs we expend significant resources on research and development attempting to drive or otherwise anticipate and react to our customers' needs. in addition, from time to time, we acquire other companies to expedite our ability to more rapidly bring products to market and enhance our range of product offerings. for example, for the fiscal year ended july 31, 2013, we spent approximately $139.7 million dollars on r&d of new products and technologies and on enhancements to our existing products, as well as an additional cash payment of $16.8 million to acquire meridian apps, inc. in addition, we are obligated to pay additional cash consideration of up to $10.2 million to certain former meridian employees who became our employees, which will be made over a period of approximately three years from the closing date, subject to certain continued employment restrictions. both r&d in the enterprise mobility industry and the process of acquiring and integrating new technologies are complex and filled with uncertainties, including: • loss of opportunities due to r&d; • delays in customer purchases due to budgetary concerns, lengthy evaluation cycles or internal decisions to rely on older technologies or defer purchases until newer technologies are available; • failure of new products or enhancements to achieve anticipated acceptance rates by our channel partners and the market; or • incompatibility of new products with our existing solutions in terms of technical integration and/or go-to-market strategy. 18 table of contents as a result, we cannot guarantee that any of our significant research and development or acquisition expenditures will lead to the successful or timely introduction of high quality products that will be adopted in our market or compete successfully against the offerings of our competitors. response to technological advances and evolving industry standards we also expend significant resources on research and development so that we can rapidly respond to the latest technological advances and industry standards in the enterprise mobility market. we manufacture our products to comply with standards established by various standards bodies, including the institute of electrical and electronics engineers, inc., or the ieee, to ensure that our products are designed to be compatible with industry standards for secure communications over wireless and wireline networks. if we are not able to adapt to new or changing standards that are ratified by these bodies, our ability to sell our products may be adversely affected. in addition, if we adapt too quickly to an evolving standard, we face the risk that the adaptation we make may not be aligned with the final adopted standard. for example, recently we began shipping products that comply with the new 802.11ac wireless lan standard, or the .11ac standard. although these products are backwards compatible with the .11n standard, we cannot guarantee that the new .11ac standard will be widely adopted or that the ieee will not modify the .11ac standard in the future. we remain subject to any changes adopted by various standards bodies, which would require us to modify our products to comply with the new standards, require additional time and expense and could cause a disruption in our ability to market and sell the affected products. race to market and marketplace pressures even if we accurately anticipate customer needs and react in a timely way to evolving industry standards and technological advances, we may not be successful in developing new products or new product enhancements, or our competitors could beat us to market with their solutions or offer better functionality than we are able to provide. additionally, even if we are successful in bringing a product to market, once a product is in the marketplace, its selling price often decreases over the life of the product, especially after a new competitive product is publicly announced. to lessen the effect of price decreases, our product management team attempts to reduce development and manufacturing costs in order to maintain or improve our margin. however, if cost reductions do not occur in a timely manner, there could be a material adverse effect on our operating results and market share. further, the introduction of new products may decrease the demand for older products currently included in our inventory balances. as a result, we may need to record incremental inventory reserves for the older products that we do not expect to sell. in addition, the introduction of new products and software updates may negatively affect our reputation if customers with legacy products become dissatisfied because the legacy products are unable to support and benefit from our software updates. any of these challenges may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and market share. if we are unable to recruit and retain key employees, including members of our senior management, on a cost-effective basis, or if we fail to effectively integrate new key personnel into our organization, we will not be able to compete effectively and our business would be harmed. our ability to compete is substantially dependent upon the performance of our key employees, including members of our senior management. as a result, our success is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract and retain talented personnel for all areas of our organization, particularly in our sales, research and development, and customer service departments. experienced management and technical, sales, marketing and support personnel in the it industry are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense, especially in the san francisco bay area. additionally, fluctuations or a sustained decrease in the price of our stock could affect our ability to attract and retain such personnel. in the event our competitors offer more attractive salaries, benefits or equity grants, we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. the loss of, or the inability to recruit, such employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. all of our executive officers are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-man life insurance policies. the loss of the services of any members of our management team may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our product development and other business objectives and could harm our business. risks related to tax changes in our tax rates could adversely affect our future results. our provision for income taxes could be adversely affected by lower than anticipated earnings in countries that have lower tax rates, and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates. this factor can result in our effective tax rate being volatile from year to year and from quarter to quarter. our provision for income taxes also could be adversely affected by non-deductible stock-based compensation, changes in research and development tax credit laws, transfer pricing adjustments, 19 table of contents changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in actual results versus our estimates, or changes in accounting principles, tax laws, regulations, including possible u.s. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. we are also subject to the periodic examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. we may underestimate the outcome of such examinations which, if significant, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. if we do not achieve increased tax benefits as a result of our recently modified corporate structure, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. we recently implemented a modified structure of our corporate organization to more closely align our corporate organization with the international nature of our business activities and to reduce our overall effective tax rate. although we anticipate achieving a reduction in our overall effective tax rate in the future as a result of these changes, it is possible that the taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate or to which we are otherwise deemed to have sufficient tax nexus will challenge the tax benefits that we expect to realize as a result of the modified structure. in addition, future changes to u.s. or non-u.s. tax laws, including proposed legislation to reform u.s. taxation of international business activities, would negatively impact the anticipated tax benefits of the new structure. any benefits to our tax rate will also depend on our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with the new structure of our corporate organization and applicable taxing provisions, including by eliminating the amount of cash distributed to us by our subsidiaries. if any of these negative effects were to occur, we might not achieve the financial efficiencies that we have anticipated, and our future operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. an increasing amount of our cash and cash equivalents may in the future be held outside of the united states and we could be subject to repatriation delays and costs, which could reduce our financial flexibility. under our international structure, we expect an increasing amount of our cash and cash equivalents may in the future be held outside the u.s., while many of our liabilities are payable in the u.s.  repatriation of some of the funds could be subject to delay for local country approvals and could have potential adverse tax consequences. as a result of having a lower amount of future cash and cash equivalents in the u.s., our financial flexibility in the future may be reduced, particularly in the areas of acquisition and other investment activity. risks relating to our sales because we sell a majority of our products through vads, vars, and oems, if we experience problems affecting our sales with these channel partners, our revenue, cash flow and market share could be harmed. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of vads, vars, and oems, which we refer to as our channel partners. if our channel partners do not perform their services adequately or efficiently, fail to meet their obligations to us, exit the industry, elect to replace our products with products of our competitors or otherwise reduce or terminate our contractual relationship, and we are not able to quickly find adequate replacements, there could be a material adverse effect on our revenue, cash flow and market share. we have dedicated a significant amount of effort to increase the use of our vads and vars in each of our theatres of operations. the percentage of our total revenue fulfilled from sales through our indirect channel was 93.4%, 92.5% and 93.0% for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. we expect that over time, our channel partner sales will continue to constitute a significant majority of our total revenue. the table below represents the percentage of total revenue from our top channel partners:   years ended july 31,   2013   2012   2011 scansource, inc. (“catalyst”) 20.8 %   21.4 %   19.4 % synnex corp. 11.6 %   *   * avnet logistics u.s. lp *   14.1 %   17.1 % alcatel-lucent *   *   13.9 % (*) indicates less than 10%. 20 table of contents because each of our top channel partners represents such a significant percentage of our overall revenue, the loss of all or substantially all sales generated by any one of these top channel partners would be harmful to our business. however, we cannot be certain that our top channel partners, or any of our other channel partners, will continue to sell our products and services at the same volumes, or at all, because we have no minimum purchase commitments with any of them and the contracts we do have generally provide that our channel partners use only reasonable commercial efforts to sell our products. in addition, our contracts with these channel partners do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours or from terminating our contracts on short notice. for example, our agreements with our top channel partners, scansource, inc., synnex corp, and avnet logistics u.s. lp are all for no more than one-year terms. existing and future channel partners will likely make decisions about whether or not to sell our products based on the quality of our products, the market acceptance of our products, the fact that our direct sales channel may compete with them, whether we elect to establish relationships with channel partners they perceive to be competitive threats, the discounts we offer versus those that our competitors may provide and the commercial viability of our contracts with them. if we fail to maintain the quality of our products or to update and enhance them, existing and future channel partners may elect to work instead with one or more of our competitors. in addition, the terms of our arrangements with our channel partners must be commercially reasonable for both parties. if we are unable to reach agreements that are beneficial to both parties, then our channel partner relationships will not succeed. our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to existing and potential channel partners to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products and services. furthermore, we compete with some of our channel partners, including through our direct sales, which may lead these channel partners to use other suppliers that do not directly sell their own products and services. other channel partners, particularly some of our oems who already have diverse product lines, may acquire one of our competitors or internally develop competitive products and then elect to limit or stop incorporating our solutions into their product lines. for this or any other reason, our channel partners may choose not to focus primarily on the sale of our products or offer our products at all.  some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in worldwide business conditions, including economic downturns, abide by our inventory and credit requirements, or have the ability to meet their financial obligations to us. the table below represents the percentage of total accounts receivable from our top channel partners:   july 31, 2013   july 31, 2012 scansource, inc. (“catalyst”) 21.4 %   15.7 % synnex corp. 12.1 %   * avnet logistics u.s. lp 13.1 %   19.0 % (*) indicates less than 10%. in addition to being unable to meet financial obligations to us, channel partners who are impacted by the poor overall economic climate may be forced to layoff sales and support personnel, which may in turn negatively impact their ability to sell our products and services. these channel partners may also face cash flow problems that could prevent them from capitalizing on larger deals that would require them to make inventory purchases beyond their available cash or lines of credit. if the economic situation for these channel partners does not improve, we may be negatively impacted by increased bad debt or decreased sales or both. our reliance on our channel partners may expose us to additional risks that could harm our business. by relying on our indirect channel partners for a significant percentage of our revenue, we may have less contact with the end users of our products, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our products, service ongoing customer requirements and respond to evolving customer needs. reduced contact with the end users of our products also would make it more difficult and more costly to establish direct sales relationships with these end users in the event our indirect relationships terminate. in addition, we may be exposed to import/export and other risks when our indirect channel partners make sales into restricted jurisdictions. we depend on our channel partners globally to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. to the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. we may provide our indirect channel partners volume discounts off of our list prices, which could reduce our margin to the extent revenue from such channel partners increases as a proportion of our overall revenue. historically, we have seen fluctuations in our gross margins based on changes in the balance of our distribution channels. although variability to date has not been significant, there can be no assurance that changes in the balance of our distribution model in future periods would not have an adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability. 21 table of contents recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in our technology and product offerings requires significant time and resources. in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our channel partners, including investment in systems and training, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and difficult to manage. we have previously entered into oem agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. these types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. in addition, as we expand into new regions domestically and internationally, we incur substantial costs in hiring, training and retaining salespersons and system engineers in those territories to support our channel partners. if we are not successful in hiring and enabling these new sales personnel, then the revenues that we expect them to generate both directly and through our channel partners may not be sufficient to justify the expense and our business would be harmed. our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. as a result, our sales are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from quarter to quarter, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. the timing of our revenue is difficult to predict due the length of our sales cycle, the buying habits and budgetary considerations of our customers, the actual or perceived condition of the economy and the impact of revenue recognition rules on our sales agreements. the length of our sales cycle is influenced by a number of factors. first, because of the highly technical nature of our solutions, our sales efforts, particularly for our new products, involve educating our proposed customers about the use and benefits of our solutions, including the technical capabilities of our solutions and the potential cost savings our solutions can provide. second, because a customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources, customers may undertake a significant evaluation process, which may involve not only our products but also those of our competitors. these customer evaluations typically range from four to nine months in length, but can be longer. in particular, customers considering the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. specifically, we view the federal and service provider verticals as highly dependent on large transactions, and therefore we could experience fluctuations from period to period in these vertical. even after a customer makes the decision to purchase our solutions, there are a number of factors that may still impact the timing of the actual sale and recognition of revenue from that sale. for example, we may successfully complete a proof of concept with a customer and the customer's it department may agree to make the purchase, but because of internal customer budget constraints, additional required departmental approvals or unplanned administrative, processing or other delays, the actual sale and deployment may be postponed. we have experienced and may experience in the future purchase delays due to the volatile global economic environment and due to customer anticipation of new wi-fi or other standards, or announced releases of new products or enhancements by our competitors or us. in addition, depending on the terms of the sale, we have from time to time been required to delay recognition of revenue from that purchase. if sales expected from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected in a material way. in addition to the challenges presented by long sales cycles and risks of purchase delays by our customers, our revenue can also be difficult to predict due to customers that sporadically place large orders with short lead times. as a result, we cannot easily predict whether a sale will be completed, the particular fiscal period in which a sale will be completed or the fiscal period in which revenue from a sale will be recognized, which in turn makes our operating results difficult to forecast and may cause our operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. our ability to sell our solutions is highly dependent on the quality of our support and services offerings, and our failure to offer high quality support and services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. our customers rely on our support and services organizations to assist them and our partners in implementing our solutions and resolving issues relating to our solutions. a high level of support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our solutions. in some cases, our channel partners provide support directly to our end-customers. we do not have complete control over the level or quality of support provided by our channel partners. these channel partners may also provide support for other third-party products, which may potentially distract resources from support for our products. if we or our channel partners do not effectively assist our end customers in deploying our solutions, succeed in helping our end customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, or provide effective ongoing support, it would adversely affect our ability to sell our products to existing customers and could harm our reputation with potential customers. in addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than english. as a result, our failure, or the failure of our channel partners, to 22 table of contents maintain high quality support and services would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. sequestration or other actions of the u.s. government resulting in significant cuts in u.s. government spending could adversely affect our sales and future results. on august 2, 2011, the president signed into law the budget control act of 2011, or the budget control act, which raised the debt ceiling and put into effect a series of actions for deficit reduction. the budget control act triggered automatic reductions in discretionary and mandatory spending, known as "sequestration" starting in 2013. as a result of sequestration, it is expected that federal government customers may become more cautious with contract awards and spending. because we depend on several large vertical markets that rely directly or indirectly on federal support, including government, health care and education, any decreased spending as a result of sequestration would adversely impact our sales and future operating results. in addition, the nation's debt ceiling is currently expected to be reached during the second half of calendar 2013. if the existing statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt is not raised, we may be required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our u.s. government contracts even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments. furthermore, such limits could also potentially delay program/contract start dates in an effort to curb obligations until all debt negotiations are complete or the u.s. government may issue a stop work order and later order the work to resume or may terminate the contract altogether. while congress and the administration continue to debate how the nation should proceed on these issues, the outcome of that debate could have a significant impact on future u.s. government spending plans. risks relating to our manufacturing and supply chain because we outsource the manufacturing of most of our hardware products to third party manufacturers, if these manufacturers do not implement adequate quality controls or suffer significant changes in their financial or business condition, our ability to supply quality products to our customers could be disrupted and our business could be harmed. we outsource the manufacturing of our products to primarily four contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers, accton, flextronics, sercomm and wistron neweb corp, each of which conducts its manufacturing activities in china. our reliance on these third-party manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process and exposes us to a variety of risks, including: interruptions in steady flow of inventory at steady prices due to lack of long-term supply contracts, long lead times to qualify new third-party manufacturers, reduced control over quality assurance, product costs, and product supply and timing, increased reliance on system interoperability to ensure timely product deliveries, and the potential for infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property. because these contract manufacturers are all located in asia, we face additional risks, including supply interruption in the event of unrest, disease outbreak or other disruptions in the region. in addition, shipping products from asia in the most cost-effective manner requires at least 22 days of travel by sea to the u.s., which in turn requires us to have significant advance notice of any inventory requirements. any manufacturing disruption or shipping delay by these third-party manufacturers could severely impair our ability to fulfill orders. because we do not have long-term contracts with these manufacturers, we typically fulfill our supply requirements with individual orders. as a result, these manufacturers do not guarantee us any amount of capacity, the continuation of particular pricing terms or the extension of credit limits. this means that our third-party manufacturers are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements and could decrease or cease supplies to us or raise prices on short notice, which could result in supply shortages and negative effects on our gross margin. for example, our manufacturing agreement with flextronics has only a one-year term, may not be renewed and may be terminated for any reason upon 180 days' advance written notice. in addition, our orders with these manufacturers represent a relatively small percentage of the overall orders received by them from their customers. as a result, fulfilling our orders may not be considered a priority in the event our contract manufacturers are constrained in their abilities to fulfill all of their customer obligations in a timely manner. we provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers. if the demand forecast is binding and we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margin. conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and the demand for each component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate materials and components required to produce our products. this could result in an interruption of the manufacturing of our products, delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenue. in addition, on occasion we have underestimated our requirements, and, as a result, we have 23 table of contents been required to pay additional fees to our contract manufacturers in order for manufacturing to be completed and shipments to be made on a timely basis. if for any reason our manufacturers do not continue manufacturing our products, we will be required to identify one or more alternative manufacturers. it is time consuming, costly and often impractical to begin using new manufacturers. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. in addition, changes in our third-party manufacturers may cause significant interruptions in supply if the new manufacturers have difficulty manufacturing products to our specifications. as a result, our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers could be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales to existing or potential customers, delayed revenue or an increase in our costs. although we perform rigorous in-house quality control inspection and testing at both of our fulfillment centers to ensure the reliability and quality of our hardware components, we do not have the ability to control the manufacturing processes of our third-party manufacturers. as a result, quality or performance failures of our products due to the internal quality controls of our third-party manufacturers could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue and financial condition. some of our business processes depend upon our it systems as well as the systems and processes of third parties. if those systems fail or are interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. this could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. in addition, as a result of current global financial market conditions, natural disasters or other causes, it is possible that any of our manufacturers could experience interruptions in production, cease operations or alter our current arrangements, in which case our ability to ship products to our customers would be delayed, sales of our products would be negatively affected and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. because our third-party manufacturers purchase some components, subassemblies and products from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers, the loss of any of these suppliers could cause us to incur additional set-up costs, result in delays in manufacturing and delivering our products, cause us to carry excess or obsolete inventory and ultimately materially adversely affect our business. to manufacture our products, we utilize components from many suppliers. whenever possible, we strive to have multiple sources for these components to ensure continuous supply and competitive costs. we work in conjunction with the extensive supply chain management organizations at all of our manufacturing partners to select and utilize quality suppliers. however, several of the components we source are technically unique and only available from specific suppliers. we rely on our contract manufacturers to obtain the components, subassemblies and products necessary for the manufacture of our products and we do not maintain direct contractual supply arrangements with any of these suppliers. any reduction or interruption in these components and subassemblies or a significant increase in the price of these supplies could have a negative impact on our business, particularly if supplies of technically unique components were disrupted. for example, the chipsets that our contract manufacturers source and incorporate into our hardware products are currently available only from a limited number of suppliers. in addition, the majority of our access points incorporate components from qualcomm, and some of our mobility controllers incorporate components from broadcom. as a result, most of our product revenue is dependent upon the sale of products that incorporate components from qualcomm or broadcom. however, neither we, nor our manufacturing partners, have entered into any long-term supply agreements with these suppliers. as there are no other sources for identical components, in the event that our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain these components from qualcomm or broadcom, we would be required to redesign our hardware and software in order to incorporate components from alternative sources. the resulting stoppage or delay in selling our products and the expense of redesigning our products could result in lost sales opportunities and damage to customer relationships, which would adversely affect our reputation, business and operating results. we also incorporate certain generally available software programs into our architecture through license agreements with third parties. although we do not have supply agreements with qualcomm or broadcom, in some cases, we have entered into license agreements that allow us to incorporate certain of their components into our products. these license agreements are only for one-year terms and each may be terminated prior to the end of the then-current term. if these agreements were to be terminated, we would be required to redesign our hardware and software in order to incorporate technology from alternative sources. even when we have multiple sources for certain components and subassemblies, we remain subject to potential price increases and limited availability due to increased market demand for such components and subassemblies by third parties. in the past, unexpected demand for communication products caused worldwide shortages of certain electronic parts, making the predictability of component availability more limited. for example, from time to time, we have experienced component 24 table of contents shortages that resulted in delays of product shipments. the development of alternate sources for those components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. any future growth in our business, it spending and the economy in general is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component inventories. we carry very little to no inventory of our product components, and we and our contract manufacturers rely on our suppliers to deliver necessary components in a timely manner. as a result, even if available, we or our contract manufacturers may not be able to secure sufficient components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products in a timely manner and, therefore, may not be able to meet customer demands for our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our inventory management relating to our sales to our two-tier distribution channel is complex, and excess inventory may harm our gross margins. we must manage our inventory relating to sales to our distributors effectively because inventory held by them could affect our results of operations. inventory management requires us to make forecasts that are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may cause our estimates to be inaccurate which, in turn, could negatively affect our ability to provide products to our customers. our distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in anticipation of new products. they also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them, and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. revenue to our distributors generally is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and they are generally given business terms that allow them to rotate a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling price, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. when facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations. if we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. if we are unable to manage our supply chain and manufacturing to the actual demand for our solutions, our supply and manufacturing costs could increase, our ability to fulfill orders could be delayed, sales opportunities could be lost and our excess or obsolete inventory levels could increase, any of which could have an adverse impact on our gross margins, business and operating results. to satisfy end customer and distribution center demand for our solutions, our product line management estimates demand on a rolling monthly basis and those forecasts drive the supply decisions that we make. typically, we require 90 days from an initial estimate of a specified amount of product demand to actual delivery of that amount of product. if we significantly overestimate demand, an oversupply of product could result in excess or obsolete inventory level increases that could adversely affect our gross margin. conversely, if actual demand for a specific product, such as our new .11ac access points, turns out to be significantly higher than our estimates, we could suffer any or all of the following adverse effects: • we might be required to request expedited manufacture of additional product to satisfy the unexpected demand, which would result in supply chain and manufacturing surcharges and a decrease to our gross margins; • we might be required to delay the sale and thereby delay recognition of revenue; or • if we are unable to deliver the product on an acceptable time frame for the customer, we may cause damage to our reputation with both our customers and distributors, lose the sale opportunity and thereby cause a decrease to our revenue and harm to our business. we have experienced occasional inventory shortages in the past, including shortages caused by manufacturing process and quality control issues, that have affected our operations. these issues are particularly acute during product transition periods, such as the one we are going through now with the roll-out of our 802.11ac access points. we may in the future experience a shortage of certain products as a result of manufacturing issues at our third party manufacturers or their downstream suppliers, capacity problems experienced by our third party manufacturers, or strong demand in the industry for subcomponents to our products. a return to robust growth in the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall demand and to establish optimal supply levels and manufacturing capacity, especially for labor-intensive components and highly complex products. if shortages should occur for our product components or for the resources of our third party manufacturers, our costs are likely to increase or, in the worst case, supplies may not be available at all, in which case our revenue and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. in addition, we believe that we may be faced with the following supply chain and manufacturing challenges in the future:   • new markets in which we participate may grow quickly, which may make it difficult to quickly obtain our product requirements in a timely fashion; 25 table of contents • as we acquire companies and new technologies, we may be dependent, at least initially, on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners that may not be reliable or cost-effective suppliers; and • we may face new competition for the subcomponents used in our products from companies both in and outside of our mobile enterprise market. risks relating to our international operations our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may adversely affect our operating results. our customers, suppliers and employees are located throughout the world. in fiscal 2013, approximately 37% of our revenue was generated by customers outside the u.s. as of july 31, 2013, we had approximately 280 sales and technical support personnel in numerous countries outside the u.s. in addition, some product configuration and fulfillment are handled in singapore and a portion of our engineering, support and order management efforts are currently handled by personnel located in india and china. we expect to expand our offshore development efforts within india and china and expect to continue to add personnel in additional countries. because we have sizeable sales and operations outside the u.s., we have more complexity in our operations and are exposed to a set of global risks that could negatively impact sales or profitability, including: • the difficulty and cost of managing and staffing international offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • challenges in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; • the need to localize our products for international customers, including customs classifications and certifications; • tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes, import/export regulations and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets; • changes in u.s. and non-u.s. rules related to trade, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection; • limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;  • employment regulations and local labor laws, including increased cost of terminating international employees in some countries; • tax issues, such as tax law and treaty changes, variations in tax laws from country to country and as compared to the u.s., obligations under tax incentive agreements, difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and difficulties in securing local country approvals for cash repatriations; • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; • foreign exchange regulations, which may limit our ability to convert or repatriate foreign currency; • cultural, business practice and language differences; • increased exposure to instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; • natural disasters, public health issues or outbreaks of disease; and • litigation in foreign court systems and foreign administrative proceedings. all of our hardware products are manufactured outside the u.s. in asia. if manufacturing in this region is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly reduced and sales or profitability could be negatively impacted. we have engineering resources in india that could be disrupted as a result of hostilities in that country. we also sell our products and services throughout the middle east and demand for our products and services could be negatively impacted by political conflicts and hostilities in this region. the potential for future unrest, terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts has created worldwide uncertainties that have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, demand for certain of our products. as we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. we are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, our products are subject to u.s. export controls and may be exported outside the u.s. only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception. in addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and radio frequency transmission equipment and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers' ability to implement 26 table of contents our products in those countries. changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may increase the cost of building and selling our products, create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. in addition, because we sell through indirect channel partners, we may incur liabilities on account of actions by our channel partners, including such actions as inadvertent sales of our products to countries in violation of applicable import or export regulations. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. we may not successfully sell our products in certain international geographic markets or develop and manage new sales channels in accordance with our business plans. we expect to continue to sell our products in certain international geographic markets where we do not have significant current business and to a broader customer base. to succeed in certain of these markets, we believe we will need to develop and manage new sales channels and distribution arrangements. because we have limited experience in developing and managing such channels, we may not be successful in further penetrating certain geographic regions or reaching a broader customer base. in addition, certain geographic markets have slower wide area networks, which negatively impact the performance of certain of our solutions. as a result, local infrastructure insufficiencies or our failure to develop or manage additional sales channels effectively would limit our ability to succeed in these markets and could adversely affect our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. to date, substantially all of our international sales have been denominated in u.s. dollars; however, most of our expenses associated with our international operations are denominated in local currencies. foreign currencies periodically experience rapid fluctuations in value against the u.s. dollar. any foreign currency devaluation against the u.s. dollar increases the real cost of our products to our customers and partners in foreign markets where we sell in u.s. dollars, which has resulted in the past and may result in the future in delayed or cancelled purchases of our products and, as a result, lower revenue. in addition, this increase in cost increases the risk to us that we will be unable to collect amounts owed to us by such customers or partners, which in turn would impact our revenue and could adversely impact our business and financial results in a material way. any devaluation may also lead us to more aggressively discount our prices in foreign markets in order to maintain competitive pricing, which would negatively impact our revenue and gross margin. conversely, a weakened u.s. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we purchase components in foreign currencies. to date, we have not used risk management techniques to hedge the risks associated with these fluctuations. even if we were to implement hedging strategies, not every exposure can be hedged and, where hedges are put in place based on expected foreign currency exchange exposure, they are based on forecasts that may vary or that may later prove to have been inaccurate. as a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or our failure to successfully hedge against these fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. failure to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws associated with our activities outside the u.s. could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. a significant portion of our revenue is and will be from jurisdictions outside of the u.s. as a result, we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or the fcpa, which generally prohibits u.s. companies and their intermediaries from making corrupt payments to foreign officials for the purpose of directing, obtaining or keeping business, and requires companies to maintain reasonable books and records and a system of internal accounting controls. the fcpa applies to companies and individuals alike, including company directors, officers, employees and agents. under the fcpa, we may be held liable for the corrupt actions taken by our employees, strategic or local partners or other representatives. in addition, the government may seek to rely on a theory of successor liability and hold us responsible for fcpa violations committed by companies or associated with assets that we acquire. in many foreign countries where we operate, particularly in countries with developing economies, local laws and customs may differ significantly from those in the u.s. for example, it may be a local custom in certain countries for businesses to engage in practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act. even though we have conducted formal fcpa compliance training, we cannot guarantee that that our employees, contractors, and agents will comply with all of our policies and procedures. as a result of our rapid growth, 27 table of contents our development of infrastructure designed to identify fcpa matters and monitor compliance is at an early stage. if we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the fcpa or similar legislation (whether intentionally or accidentally), governmental authorities in the u.s. and elsewhere could seek to impose civil and/or criminal fines and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial conditions. we may also face collateral consequences such as debarment and the loss of our export privileges. risks relating to intellectual property and security claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against our company, our customers or our channel partners. due to the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on proprietary technologies of third parties, and we may not be able to obtain, or continue to obtain, licenses from such third parties on reasonable terms. technology companies frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. in addition, patent holding companies seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. as our business expands, through acquisitions or organically, and the number of products and competitors in our market increases, we expect that infringement claims may increase in number and significance. intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages or prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services. in addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of this intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, or require us to pay substantial settlement amounts or judgment damages. in an effort to avoid costly litigation or for other reasons, we may determine to settle these types of claims or proceedings at any time, and the amounts we may have to pay could be material. in light of our operation results, a large settlement or non-appealable judgment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. system security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks on our systems or products could compromise our proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our products, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer, create additional liabilities and adversely affect our financial results and stock price. in the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our internal systems and networks. additionally, we design and sell products that allow our customers to wirelessly access sensitive data on their own systems. our products incorporate complex technology and must operate and support a wide range of mobile devices that use wi-fi as well as the complex applications that run on those devices, which use multiple communication industry standards. the secure maintenance of sensitive information on our own networks and the intrusion protection features of our products are both critical to our operations and business strategy. increasingly, companies are facing a wide variety of attacks from computer “hackers” who develop and deploy destructive software programs (such as viruses and worms) to attack networks. due to our business model and the location of some of our development centers, we have faced and are likely to face similar threats that target both our internal systems and our products, which, in turn, may threaten our customers' networks, devices and applications. because the techniques used by hackers to access or sabotage networks are becoming increasingly sophisticated, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, even with the significant efforts we take to create security barriers to such attacks, it is virtually impossible for us to entirely eliminate this risk. additionally, our information technology and infrastructure may be breached due to employee error, malfeasance (either internal or external and either at home or abroad) or other disruptions. although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our systems and products, any destructive or intrusive breach of our internal systems could compromise our networks, creating system disruptions or slowdowns, and the information stored on our networks could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. additionally, an effective attack on our products could disrupt the proper functioning of our products, allow unauthorized access to sensitive, proprietary or confidential information of ours or our customers, disrupt or temporarily interrupt customers' networking traffic, or cause other destructive outcomes. real or perceived defects or errors in our products (particularly in our cloud-based offerings which are sometimes perceived as being inherently less secure) could result in claims by channel partners and end-customers for losses that they 28 table of contents sustain, including potentially losses resulting from security breaches of our end-customers' networks and/or downtime of those networks. if channel partners or end-customers make these types of claims, we may be required, or may choose, for customer relations or other reasons, to expend additional resources in order to help correct the problem, including warranty and repair costs, process management costs and costs associated with re-manufacturing our inventory. in addition, if an actual or perceived breach of security occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of one of our products (particularly our cloud-based offerings), regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. the economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the programmer or hacker, which are often difficult to identify. there has been a sharp increase in laws in europe, the u.s. and elsewhere imposing requirements for the handling of personal data, including data of employees, consumers and business contacts as well as privacy-related matters. for example, the state of california has adopted legislation requiring operators of commercial websites and mobile applications that collect personal information from california residents to conspicuously post and comply with privacy policies that satisfy certain requirements. several other u.s. states have adopted legislation requiring companies to protect the security of personal information that they collect from consumers over the internet, and more states may adopt similar legislation in the future. the european union also has adopted various directives regulating data privacy and security and the transmission of content using the internet involving residents of the european union, including those directives known as the data protection directive, the e-privacy directive, and the privacy and electronic communications directive, and may adopt similar directives in the future. given the variety of global privacy and data protection regimes, it is possible we may find ourselves subject to inconsistent obligations. in addition, there is a risk that failures in systems designed to protect private, personal or proprietary data held by us will allow such data to be disclosed to or seen by others, resulting in application of regulatory penalties, enforcement actions, remediation obligations and/or private litigation by parties whose data were improperly disclosed. there is also a risk that we (directly or as the result of some third-party service provider we use) could be found to have failed to comply with the laws or regulations of some country regarding the collection, consent, handling, transfer, or disposal of such personal data, which could subject us to fines or other sanctions, as well as adverse reputational impact. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. we depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. we protect our proprietary information and technology through licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as through patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the u.s. and similar laws in other countries. we cannot provide assurances that these protections will be available in all cases or will be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying, reverse engineering or otherwise obtaining and using our technology, proprietary rights or products. for example, the laws of certain countries in which our products are manufactured or licensed do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s., and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. in addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, or applications for any of the foregoing. to prevent substantial unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, it may be necessary to prosecute actions for infringement and/or misappropriation of our proprietary rights against third parties. any action that we initiate could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and management's attention, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful. furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. enterprises are increasingly concerned with the security of their data, and to the extent they elect to encrypt data between the end user and the server, our products will become less effective. our products depend on the ability to identify applications. our products currently do not identify applications if the data is encrypted as it passes through our mobility controllers. since most organizations currently encrypt most of their data transmissions only between sites and not on the lan, the data is not encrypted when it passes through our mobility controllers. if more organizations elect to encrypt their data transmissions from the end user to the server, our products will offer limited benefits unless we have been successful in incorporating additional functionality into our products that address those encrypted transmissions. at the same time, if our products do not provide the level of network security expected by our customers, our reputation and brand would be damaged, and we would expect to experience decreased sales. our failure to provide such additional functionality and expected level of network security could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 29 table of contents our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. we incorporate open source software into our products. use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. this could allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time, and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. although we monitor our use of open source closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by u.s. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. we could also be subject to similar conditions or restrictions should there be any changes in the licensing terms of the open source software incorporated into our products. in either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. we rely on the availability of third-party licenses and could be subject to product release or shipment delays if we were unable to renew existing licenses or enter into applicable licenses for product enhancements or new products. many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. for example, our products incorporate certain technology that we license from qualcomm. from time to time, we may be required to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products or to seek additional licenses for product enhancements or new products. there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. the inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in delays in product releases or shipments until such time, if ever, as equivalent technology could be identified, licensed or developed and integrated into our products and might have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products. our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by man made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. our corporate headquarters are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or a flood, occurring at our headquarters or in either china or singapore, where our major contract manufacturers and distribution centers are located, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. in addition, our support operations are largely concentrated in a single location in india. a natural catastrophe in this location can bring down our support operation. our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. in addition, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or war could cause disruptions in our or our customers' businesses or the economy as a whole. we also rely on information technology systems to communicate among our workforce and with third parties. any disruption to our communications, whether caused by a natural disaster or by man made problems, such as power disruptions, could adversely affect our business. to the extent that any such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the deployment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. risks relating to applicable laws and regulations new regulations or changes in existing regulations related to our products may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could place additional burdens on the operations of our business and have a material adverse effect on our future sales, business and results of operations. our products are subject to governmental regulations in a variety of jurisdictions. if any of our products becomes subject to new regulations or if any of our products becomes specifically regulated by additional government entities, compliance with such regulations could become more burdensome, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. for example, radio emissions are subject to regulation in the u.s. and in other countries in which we do business. in the u.s., various federal agencies including the center for devices and radiological health of the food and drug administration, the federal communications commission, the occupational safety and health administration and various state agencies have promulgated regulations that concern the use of radio/electromagnetic emissions standards. member 30 table of contents countries of the european union, or eu, have enacted similar standards concerning electrical safety and electromagnetic compatibility and emissions, and chemical substances and use standards. if any of our products becomes subject to new regulations or if any of our products becomes specifically regulated by additional government entities, compliance with such regulations could become more burdensome. in addition, our wireless communication products operate through the transmission of radio signals. currently, operation of these products in specified frequency bands does not require licensing by regulatory authorities. regulatory changes restricting the use of frequency bands or allocating available frequencies could become more burdensome. if either of these were to occur, there could be a material adverse effect on our future sales, business and results of operations. compliance with environmental matters and worker health and safety laws could be costly, and noncompliance with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, expenses and financial condition. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. some of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. we could be subject to increased costs, fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims if we violate or become liable under environmental and/or worker health and safety laws. we may be unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components and parts that are verified free of conflict minerals, which could result in a shortage of such components and parts, reputational damages or loss of sales if we are unable to determine that our products are free of such minerals. the dodd-frank act included disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries (or drc) and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict” minerals. the final rules implementing these requirements were released in august 2012. the short implementation time frame may limit the pool of suppliers who can provide us verifiable drc conflict free components and parts, and we are not certain that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities that meet the drc conflict free determination as required by the rule in order to declare our products drc conflict free. compliance with these rules is also likely to result in additional cost and expense, including the cost associated with the due diligence required to determine and verify the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. these rules may also affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our products, as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” metals that can be used in our products. in addition, local states and other countries in which we do business may enact legislation that bars their departments and agencies from purchasing products from companies that are unable to certify that all product components are from conflict-free sources (whether drc or otherwise). as a result, we may face reputational challenges and the loss of sales if we are required to publicly state that we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the defined “conflict” metals used in our products. we incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our board of directors and management devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company, including costs resulting from regulations regarding corporate governance practices and costs relating to compliance with the sarbanes-oxley act. for example, the listing requirements of the nasdaq stock market's global select market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of conduct. in addition, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act contains various provisions applicable to the corporate governance functions of public companies. our board of directors, management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. moreover, these rules and regulations and their associated costs both in terms of time and expense could make it more difficult for us to attract, recruit and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers or other key personnel. failure of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers and representatives to use acceptable legal or ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. it is our policy to require our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, 31 table of contents environmental compliance, anti-corruption and trademark and copyright licensing. however, we do not control their labor and other business practices. if one of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, or other representatives violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. if one of our suppliers or subcontractors fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights or patents, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the salability of our products and expose us to financial obligations to a third-party. any of these events could have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. risks related to ownership of our common stock our stock price may be volatile. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock could include: • variations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or product enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • the impact of unfavorable worldwide economic and market conditions; • variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • announcements by or about us regarding events or news adverse to our business; • the loss or bankruptcy of any of our major customers, distribution partners or suppliers; • variations in the operating results of other publicly traded corporations deemed by investors to be in our peer group; • an announced acquisition of or by a competitor, or an announced acquisition of or by us; • rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; • providing estimates of our future operating results, or changes in these estimates, either by us or by any securities analysts who follow our common stock, or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts who follow our common stock; • significant sales, or announcement of significant sales, of our common stock by us or our stockholders; • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. in addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. this litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. all of these factors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, and investors may lose some or all of the value of their investment. if securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. if any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. provisions in our charter documents, delaware law, employment arrangements with certain of our executives, and our oem supply agreement with alcatel-lucent could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. these provisions include the following: • our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of 32 table of contents directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • our stockholders may not act by written consent or call special stockholders' meetings; as a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions other than at annual stockholders' meetings or special stockholders' meetings called by the board of directors, the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer or the president; • our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; • stockholders must provide advance notice and additional disclosures in order to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and • our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock; the ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. certain of our executives may be entitled to accelerated vesting of their stock options pursuant to the terms of their employment arrangements upon a change of control of our company. in addition to the arrangements currently in place with some of our executives, we may enter into similar arrangements in the future with other executives. such arrangements could delay or discourage a potential acquisition of our company. in addition, our oem supply agreement with alcatel-lucent provides that, in the event of a change of control that would cause alcatel-lucent to purchase our products from an entity that is an alcatel-lucent competitor, we must, without additional consideration, (1) provide alcatel-lucent with any information required by alcatel-lucent to make, test and support the products that we distribute through our oem relationship with alcatel-lucent, including all hardware designs and software source code, and (2) otherwise cooperate with alcatel-lucent to transition the manufacturing, testing and support of these products to alcatel-lucent. we are also obligated to promptly inform alcatel-lucent if and when we receive an inquiry concerning a bona fide proposal or offer to effect a change of control and will not enter into negotiations concerning a change of control without such prior notice to alcatel-lucent. each of these provisions could delay or result in a discount to the proceeds our stockholders would otherwise receive upon a change of control or could discourage a third party from making a change of control offer. we are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. the sarbanes-oxley act requires us to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. this assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. we must continue to monitor, enhance and assess our internal control over financial reporting. if we are unable to assert in any future reporting period that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. 33 table of contents item 1b. unresolved