item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to numerous risks. we caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the sec, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. all statements other than statements relating to historical matters should be considered forward-looking statements. when used in this report, the words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “may” “could” “intend,” “will,” “plan,” “target,” “goal” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these words. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. we explicitly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date hereof. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the sec. risks related to our business risks related to being an early stage company because we are an early stage development stage company, there is limited information about our ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies in the biopharmaceutical industry. as an early-stage development stage company, we have limited experience and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the biopharmaceutical area. for example, to execute our business plan, we will need to successfully:     •   execute product development activities using unproven technologies related to both rnai and to the delivery of sirnas to the relevant tissues and cells;     •   build and maintain a strong intellectual property portfolio;     •   gain regulatory acceptance for the development of our product candidates and market success for any products we commercialize;     •   develop and maintain successful strategic alliances; and     •   manage our spending as costs and expenses increase due to clinical trials, regulatory approvals and commercialization. if we are unsuccessful in accomplishing these objectives, we may not be able to develop product candidates, commercialize products, raise capital, expand our business or continue our operations. the approach we are taking to discover and develop novel rnai therapeutics is unproven and may never lead to marketable products. we have concentrated our efforts and therapeutic product research on rnai technology, and our future success depends on the successful development of this technology and products based on it. neither we nor any other company has received regulatory approval to market therapeutics utilizing sirnas, the class of molecule we are trying to develop into drugs. the scientific discoveries that form the basis for our efforts to discover and develop new drugs are relatively new. the scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs based on these discoveries is both preliminary and limited. skepticism as to the feasibility of developing rnai therapeutics has been expressed in scientific literature. for example, there are potential challenges to achieving   43 table of contents safe rnai therapeutics based on the so-called off-target effects and activation of the interferon response. in addition, decisions by other companies with respect to their rnai development efforts may increase skepticism in the marketplace regarding the potential for rnai therapeutics. relatively few product candidates based on these discoveries have ever been tested in animals or humans. sirnas may not naturally possess the inherent properties typically required of drugs, such as the ability to be stable in the body long enough to reach the tissues in which their effects are required, nor the ability to enter cells within these tissues in order to exert their effects. we currently have only limited data, and no conclusive evidence, to suggest that we can introduce these drug-like properties into sirnas. we may spend large amounts of money trying to introduce these properties, and may never succeed in doing so. in addition, these compounds may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. as a result, we may never succeed in developing a marketable product, we may not become profitable and the value of our common stock will decline. further, our focus solely on rnai technology for developing drugs, as opposed to multiple, more proven technologies for drug development, increases the risks associated with the ownership of our common stock. if we are not successful in developing a product candidate using rnai technology, we may be required to change the scope and direction of our product development activities. in that case, we may not be able to identify and implement successfully an alternative product development strategy. risks related to our financial results and need for financing we have a history of losses and may never become and remain consistently profitable. we have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. at december 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $401.0 million. to date, we have not developed any products nor generated any revenues from the sale of products. further, we do not expect to generate any such revenues in the foreseeable future. we expect to continue to incur annual net operating losses over the next several years and will require substantial resources over the next several years as we expand our efforts to discover, develop and commercialize rnai therapeutics. we anticipate that the majority of any revenues we generate over the next several years will be from alliances with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or funding from contracts with the government or foundations, but cannot be certain that we will be able to secure or maintain these alliances or contracts, or meet the obligations or achieve any milestones that we may be required to meet or achieve to receive payments. we anticipate that revenues derived from such sources will not be sufficient to make us consistently profitable. we believe that to become and remain consistently profitable, we must succeed in discovering, developing and commercializing novel drugs with significant market potential. this will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including pre-clinical testing and clinical trial stages of development, obtaining regulatory approval for these novel drugs and manufacturing, marketing and selling them. we may never succeed in these activities, and may never generate revenues that are significant enough to achieve profitability. even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. if we cannot become and remain consistently profitable, the market price of our common stock could decline. in addition, we may be unable to raise capital, expand our business, develop additional product candidates or continue our operations. we will require substantial additional funds to complete our research and development activities and if additional funds are not available, we may need to critically limit, significantly scale back or cease our operations. we have used substantial funds to develop our rnai technologies and will require substantial funds to conduct further research and development, including pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates, and to manufacture and market any products that are approved for commercial sale. because we cannot be certain of the length of time or activities associated with successful development of our product candidates, we are unable to estimate the actual funds we will require to develop and commercialize them.   44 table of contents our future capital requirements and the period for which we expect our existing resources to support our operations may vary from what we expect. we have based our expectations on a number of factors, many of which are difficult to predict or are outside of our control, including:     •   our progress in demonstrating that sirnas can be active as drugs;     •   our ability to develop relatively standard procedures for selecting and modifying sirna product candidates;     •   progress in our research and development programs, as well as the magnitude of these programs;     •   the timing, receipt and amount of milestone and other payments, if any, from present and future collaborators, if any;     •   the timing, receipt and amount of funding under current and future government or foundation contracts, if any;     •   our ability to maintain and establish additional collaborative arrangements and/or new business initiatives;     •   the resources, time and costs required to initiate and complete our pre-clinical and clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals, and obtain and maintain licenses to third-party intellectual property;     •   our ability to manufacture, or contract with third-parties for the manufacture of, our product candidates for clinical testing and commercial sale;     •   the resources, time and cost required for the preparation, filing, prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of patent claims;     •   our ability to achieve the anticipated cost reductions as a result of, and to successfully manage the potential impact of, our january 2012 strategic corporate restructuring and workforce reduction on our culture, collaborative relationships and business operations;     •   the costs associated with legal activities, including litigation, arising in the course of our business activities and our ability to prevail in any such legal disputes;     •   progress in the research and development programs of regulus; and     •   the timing, receipt and amount of sales and royalties, if any, from our potential products. if our estimates and predictions relating to these factors are incorrect, we may need to modify our operating plan. even if our estimates are correct, we will be required to seek additional funding in the future and intend to do so through either collaborative arrangements, public or private equity offerings or debt financings, or a combination of one or more of these funding sources. additional funds may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders. for example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, under our shelf registration statement or otherwise, further dilution to our stockholders will result. in addition, as a condition to providing additional funds to us, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. moreover, our investor rights agreement with novartis provides novartis with the right generally to maintain its ownership percentage in us, subject to certain exceptions. these rights continue until the earlier of any sale by novartis of shares of our common stock and the expiration or termination of our license agreement with novartis, subject to certain exceptions. pursuant to the terms of its investor rights agreement with us, over the past five years, novartis purchased an aggregate of 335,033 shares of our common stock, resulting in aggregate payments to us of $7.6 million. at december 31, 2011, novartis held 13.1% of our outstanding common stock. while the exercise of these rights by novartis has provided us with funding, and the exercise in the future by novartis may provide us with additional funding under some circumstances, these exercises have caused, and any future exercise of these rights by novartis will also cause further, dilution to our stockholders. debt financing, if   45 table of contents available, may involve restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities and, in the event of insolvency, would be paid before holders of equity securities received any distribution of corporate assets. if we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly delay or curtail one or more of our research or development programs or undergo additional reductions in our workforce or other corporate restructuring activities. we also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise pursue on our own. if the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our consolidated financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections and accruals. our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, or gaap. the preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. we cannot assure you, however, that our estimates, or the assumptions underlying them, will be correct. the investment of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities is subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2011, we had $260.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. we historically have invested these amounts in corporate bonds, commercial paper, securities issued by the u.s. government obligations, certificates of deposit and money market funds meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, including the impact of u.s. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. we may realize losses in the fair value of these investments or a complete loss of these investments, which would have a negative effect on our consolidated financial statements. in addition, should our investments cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. the market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. risks related to our dependence on third parties our license and collaboration agreements with pharmaceutical companies are important to our business. if these pharmaceutical companies do not successfully develop drugs pursuant to these agreements or we develop drugs targeting the same diseases as our non-exclusive licensees, our business could be adversely affected. in july 2007, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with roche. under the license and collaboration agreement we granted roche a non-exclusive license to our intellectual property to develop and commercialize therapeutic products that function through rnai, subject to our existing contractual obligations to third parties. in november 2010, roche announced the discontinuation of certain activities in research and early development, including their rnai research efforts. in october 2011, arrowhead announced its acquisition of rna therapeutics assets from roche, including our license and collaboration agreement with roche. as a result of the assignment, arrowhead now has all of the rights and obligations of roche under that agreement. the license is limited to four therapeutic areas and may be expanded to include additional therapeutic areas, upon payment to us by arrowhead of an additional $50.0 million for each additional therapeutic area, if any. in addition, in exchange for our contributions under the collaboration agreement, for each rnai therapeutic product developed by arrowhead, its affiliates, or sublicensees under the collaboration agreement, we are entitled to   46 table of contents receive milestone payments upon achievement of specified development and sales events, totaling up to an aggregate of $100.0 million per therapeutic target, together with royalty payments based on worldwide annual net sales, if any. our receipt of milestone payments under this agreement is dependent upon arrowhead’s ability to successfully develop and commercialize rnai therapeutic products. in may 2008, we entered into a similar license and collaboration agreement with takeda, which is limited to two therapeutic areas, and which may be expanded to include additional therapeutic areas, upon payment to us by takeda of an additional $50.0 million for each additional therapeutic area, if any. for each rnai therapeutic product developed by takeda, its affiliates and sublicensees, we are entitled to receive specified development and commercialization milestones, totaling up to $171.0 million per product, together with royalty payments based on worldwide annual net sales, if any. in addition, we agreed that we will not grant any other party rights to develop rnai therapeutics in the asian territory through may 2013. in september 2010, novartis exercised its right under our collaboration and license agreement to select 31 designated gene targets, for which novartis has exclusive rights to discover, develop and commercialize rnai therapeutic products using our intellectual property and technology. under the terms of the collaboration and license agreement, for any rnai therapeutic products novartis develops against these targets, we are entitled to receive milestone payments upon achievement of certain specified development and annual net sales events, up to an aggregate of $75.0 million per therapeutic product, as well as royalties on annual net sales of any such product. if takeda, novartis or arrowhead fails to successfully develop products using our technology, we may not receive any milestone or royalty payments under our agreements with them. in addition, even if takeda is not successful in its efforts, we are limited in our ability to form alliances with other parties in the asian territory until may 2013. we also have the option under the takeda agreement, exercisable until the start of phase iii development, to opt-in under a 50-50 profit sharing agreement to the development and commercialization in the united states of up to four takeda licensed products, and would be entitled to opt-in rights for two additional products for each additional field expansion, if any, elected by takeda under the collaboration agreement. if takeda fails to successfully develop products, we may not realize any economic benefit from these opt-in rights. finally, takeda could become a competitor of ours in the development of rnai-based drugs targeting the same diseases that we choose to target. takeda has significantly greater financial resources than we do and far more experience in developing and marketing drugs, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage if we were to compete with them in the development of rnai-based drugs targeting the same disease. we may not be able to execute our business strategy if we are unable to enter into alliances with other companies that can provide business and scientific capabilities and funds for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. if we are unsuccessful in forming or maintaining these alliances on terms favorable to us, our business may not succeed. we do not have any capability for sales, marketing or distribution and have limited capabilities for drug development. in addition, we believe that other companies are expending substantial resources in developing safe and effective means of delivering sirnas to relevant cell and tissue types. accordingly, we have entered into alliances with other companies and collaborators that we believe can provide such capabilities, and we intend to enter into additional such alliances in the future. for example, we intend to enter into worldwide or specific geographic collaborations relating to (1) rnai platform and/or multi-target discovery alliances, and (2) select rnai therapeutic programs in our pipeline, including aln-pcs, aln-hpn, aln-tmp and aln-vsp. in such alliances, we expect our current, and may expect our future, collaborators to provide substantial capabilities in delivery of rnai therapeutics to the relevant cell or tissue type, clinical development, regulatory affairs, and/or marketing, sales and distribution. for example, under our agreements with mit, tekmira, ubc and alcana, and arrowhead, among others, we have access to certain existing delivery technologies and/or are developing additional delivery capabilities. in addition, under our collaboration with medtronic, we are jointly developing aln-htt, an rnai therapeutic for hd, which would be delivered using an implanted infusion device developed by medtronic. the success of this collaboration will depend, in part, on medtronic’s expertise in the   47 table of contents area of delivery of drugs by infusion device, something that they have never done before with our product candidates. in other alliances, we may expect our collaborators to develop, market and/or sell certain of our product candidates. we may have limited or no control over the development, sales, marketing and distribution activities of these third parties. our future revenues may depend heavily on the success of the efforts of these third parties. for example, we will rely entirely on kyowa hakko kirin for development and commercialization of any rnai products for the treatment of rsv in asia. if kyowa hakko kirin is not successful in its commercialization efforts, our future revenues from rnai therapeutics for the treatment of rsv may be adversely affected. we may not be successful in entering into such alliances on terms favorable to us due to various factors, including our ability to successfully demonstrate proof of concept for our technology in man, our ability to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our specific drug candidates, our ability to manufacture or have manufactured rnai therapeutics, the strength of our intellectual property and/or concerns around challenges to our intellectual property. even if we do succeed in securing any such alliances, we may not be able to maintain them if, for example, development or approval of a product candidate is delayed, challenges are raised as to the validity or scope of our intellectual property or sales of an approved drug are lower than we expected. furthermore, any delay in entering into collaboration agreements would likely either delay the development and commercialization of our certain of our product candidates and reduce their competitiveness even if they reach the market, or prevent the development of certain product candidates. any such delay related to our collaborations could adversely affect our business. for certain product candidates that we may develop, we have formed collaborations to fund all or part of the costs of drug development and commercialization, such as our collaborations with takeda, cubist and medtronic. we may not, however, be able to enter into additional collaborations for aln-pcs, aln-hpn, aln-tmp or aln-vsp, and the terms of any collaboration agreement we do secure may not be favorable to us. if we are not successful in our efforts to enter into future collaboration arrangements with respect to one or more of these product candidates, we may not have sufficient funds to develop that or any other product candidate internally, or to bring any product candidates to market. if we do not have sufficient funds to develop and bring our product candidates to market, we will not be able to generate sales revenues from these product candidates, and this will substantially harm our business. if any collaborator terminates or fails to perform its obligations under agreements with us, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated. our dependence on collaborators for capabilities and funding means that our business could be adversely affected if any collaborator terminates its collaboration agreement with us or fails to perform its obligations under that agreement. our current or future collaborations, if any, may not be scientifically or commercially successful. disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or products developed with collaborators, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and commercialize any affected product candidate. our current collaborations allow, and we expect that any future collaborations will allow, either party to terminate the collaboration for a material breach by the other party. our agreement with kyowa hakko kirin for the development and commercialization of rsv therapeutics for the treatment of rsv infection in japan and other major markets in asia may be terminated by kyowa hakko kirin without cause upon 180-days’ prior written notice to us, subject to certain conditions, and our agreement with cubist relating to the development and commercialization of certain rsv therapeutics in territories outside of asia may be terminated by cubist at any time upon as little as three months’ prior written notice, if such notice is given prior to the acceptance for filing of the first application for regulatory approval of a licensed product. if we were to lose a commercialization collaborator, we would have to attract a new collaborator or develop internal sales, distribution and marketing capabilities, which would require us to invest significant amounts of financial and management resources. in addition, if we have a dispute with a collaborator over the ownership of technology or other matters, or if a collaborator terminates its collaboration with us, for breach or otherwise, or determines not to pursue the   48 table of contents research and development of rnai therapeutics, it could delay our development of product candidates, result in the need for additional company resources to develop product candidates, make it more difficult for us to attract new collaborators and could adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and financial communities. for example, in march 2011, tekmira filed a civil complaint against us claiming misappropriation of its confidential and proprietary information and trade secrets, civil conspiracy and tortious interference with contractual relationships, unjust enrichment, contractual breach, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, unfair competition, false advertising, and unfair and deceptive trade practices by us. as a result of the litigation, we have been required to expend additional resources and management attention that would otherwise be engaged in other activities. moreover, a collaborator, or in the event of a change in control of a collaborator or the assignment of a collaboration agreement to a third party, the successor entity or assignee, could determine that it is in its interests to:     •   pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, either on its own or jointly with others, that may be competitive with the products on which it is collaborating with us or which could affect its commitment to the collaboration with us;     •   pursue higher-priority programs or change the focus of its development programs, which could affect the collaborator’s commitment to us; or     •   if it has marketing rights, choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our product candidates, if any are approved for marketing, than it does for product candidates developed without us. if any of these occur, the development and commercialization of one or more product candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue such development and commercialization on our own. regulus is important to our business. if regulus does not successfully develop drugs pursuant to our license and collaboration agreement, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, disagreements between us and isis regarding the development of microrna technology may cause significant delays and other impediments in the development of this technology, which could negatively affect the value of the technology and our investment in regulus. in september 2007, we and isis formed regulus, of which we owned approximately 45% at december 31, 2011, to discover, develop and commercialize microrna therapeutics. regulus is exploring therapeutic opportunities that arise from dysregulation of micrornas. neither regulus nor any other company has received regulatory approval to market therapeutics utilizing microrna technology. in connection with the establishment of regulus, we exclusively licensed to regulus our intellectual property rights covering microrna technology. generally, we do not have rights to pursue microrna therapeutics independently of regulus. if regulus is unable to discover, develop and commercialize microrna therapeutics, our business could be adversely affected. in april 2008, regulus formed a collaboration with gsk pursuant to which gsk provided regulus with a loan for $5.0 million, plus interest. in february 2010, regulus formed an additional collaboration with gsk pursuant to which gsk provided regulus with an additional $5.0 million loan, plus interest. these loans are guaranteed equally by us and isis. if regulus is unable to repay gsk or convert the loans into regulus common stock, we could be liable for our share of these obligations, and our business could be adversely affected. in addition, regulus operates as an independent company, governed by a board of directors. we and isis each can elect an equal number of directors to serve on the regulus board. regulus researches and develops microrna projects and programs pursuant to an operating plan that is approved by its board. any disagreements between isis and us regarding a development decision or any other decision submitted to regulus’ board may cause significant delays in the development and commercialization of microrna technology and could negatively affect the value of our investment in regulus.   49 table of contents we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and if they fail to fulfill their obligations, our development plans may be adversely affected. we rely on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out our clinical trials. we have contracted, and we plan to continue to contract with certain third-parties to provide certain services, including site selection, enrollment, monitoring and data management services. although we depend heavily on these parties, we do not control them and therefore, we cannot be assured that these third-parties will adequately perform all of their contractual obligations to us. if our third-party service providers cannot adequately and timely fulfill their obligations to us, or if the quality and accuracy of our clinical trial data is compromised due to failure by such third-party to adhere to our protocols or regulatory requirements or if such third-parties otherwise fail to meet deadlines, our development plans may be delayed or terminated. we have very limited manufacturing experience or resources and we must incur significant costs to develop this expertise or rely on third parties to manufacture our products. we have very limited manufacturing experience. our internal manufacturing capabilities are limited to small-scale production of non-cgmp, material for use in in vitro and in vivo experiments. some of our product candidates utilize specialized formulations, such as liposomes or lnps, whose scale-up and manufacturing could be very difficult. we also have very limited experience in such scale-up and manufacturing, requiring us to depend on a limited number of third parties, who might not be able to deliver in a timely manner, or at all. in order to develop products, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize our products, we will need to develop, contract for, or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. we may manufacture clinical trial materials ourselves or we may rely on others to manufacture the materials we will require for any clinical trials that we initiate. there are a limited number of manufacturers that supply synthetic sirnas. we currently rely on several contract manufacturers for our supply of synthetic sirnas. there are risks inherent in pharmaceutical manufacturing that could affect the ability of our contract manufacturers to meet our delivery time requirements or provide adequate amounts of material to meet our needs. included in these risks are synthesis and purification failures and contamination during the manufacturing process, which could result in unusable product and cause delays in our development process, as well as additional expense to us. to fulfill our sirna requirements, we may also need to secure alternative suppliers of synthetic sirnas. in addition to the manufacture of the synthetic sirnas, we may have additional manufacturing requirements related to the technology required to deliver the sirna to the relevant cell or tissue type, such as lnps or conjugates. in some cases, the delivery technology we utilize is highly specialized or proprietary, and for technical and legal reasons, we may have access to only one or a limited number of potential manufacturers for such delivery technology. for example, under our agreements with tekmira, we are obligated, subject to certain exceptions specified in our contract with tekmira, to utilize tekmira for the manufacture of all lnp-formulated product candidates covered by tekmira’s intellectual property beginning during pre-clinical development and continuing through phase ii clinical trials. failure by manufacturers to properly formulate our sirnas for delivery could result in unusable product. furthermore, a breach by such manufacturers of their contractual obligations or a dispute with such manufacturers would cause delays in our discovery and development process, as well as additional expense to us. given the limited number of suppliers for our delivery technology and other materials, in the future, we expect to develop our own capabilities to manufacture drug substance, including sirnas and sirna conjugates, and/or finished drug product, including lnp formulations, as permitted under our manufacturing agreement with tekmira, for human clinical use. if we develop these manufacturing capabilities by building our own manufacturing facility, it will require substantial expenditures. also, we will likely need to hire and train employees to staff a new facility. the manufacturing process for any products that we may develop is subject to the fda and foreign regulatory authority approval process and we will need to contract with manufacturers who can meet all applicable fda and foreign regulatory authority requirements on an ongoing basis. in addition, if we receive the necessary regulatory approval for any product candidate, we also expect to rely on third parties, including our commercial collaborators, to produce materials required for commercial supply. we may experience difficulty in   50 table of contents obtaining adequate manufacturing capacity for our needs. if we are unable to obtain or maintain contract manufacturing for these product candidates, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our products. to the extent that we have existing, or enter into future, manufacturing arrangements with third parties, we depend, and will depend in the future, on these third parties to perform their obligations in a timely manner and consistent with contractual and regulatory requirements, including those related to quality control and quality assurance. the failure of a third-party manufacturer to perform its obligations as expected, or, if we elect to manufacture all or a portion of our product candidates ourselves, our failure to execute on our manufacturing requirements could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including:     •   we or our current or future collaborators may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials of products that are under development;     •   we or our current or future collaborators may be delayed in submitting regulatory applications, or receiving regulatory approvals, for our product candidates;     •   we may lose the cooperation of our collaborators;     •   our products could be the subject of inspections by regulatory authorities;     •   we may be required to cease distribution or recall some or all batches of our products; and     •   ultimately, we may not be able to meet commercial demands for our products. if any third-party manufacturer with whom we contract fails to perform its obligations, we may be forced to manufacture the materials ourselves, for which we may not have the capabilities or resources, or enter into an agreement with a different third-party manufacturer, which we may not be able to do on reasonable terms, if at all. in some cases, the technical skills required to manufacture our products or product candidates may be unique or proprietary to the original manufacturer and we may have difficulty, or there may be contractual restrictions prohibiting us from, transferring such skills to a back-up or alternate supplier, or we may be unable to transfer such skills at all. in addition, if we are required to change manufacturers for any reason, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. the delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could negatively affect our ability to develop product candidates in a timely manner or within budget. furthermore, a manufacturer may possess technology related to the manufacture of our product candidate that such manufacturer owns independently. this would increase our reliance on such manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from such manufacturer in order to have another third party manufacture our products or product candidates. we have no sales, marketing or distribution experience and would have to invest significant financial and management resources to establish these capabilities. we have no sales, marketing or distribution experience. we currently expect to rely heavily on third parties to launch and market certain of our product candidates, if approved. however, if we elect to develop internal sales, distribution and marketing capabilities as part of our core product strategy, we will need to invest significant financial and management resources. for core products where we decide to perform sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves, we could face a number of additional risks, including:     •   we may not be able to attract and build a significant marketing or sales force;     •   the cost of establishing a marketing or sales force may not be justifiable in light of the revenues generated by any particular product; and     •   our direct sales and marketing efforts may not be successful. if we are unable to develop our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our core products without reliance on third parties.   51 table of contents the current credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. due to the tightening of global credit, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators. we rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business, including significant portions of our manufacturing needs, development of product candidates and conduct of clinical trials. if such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business could be adversely affected. risks related to managing our operations if we are unable to attract and retain qualified key management and scientists, staff, consultants and advisors, particularly given our recent workforce reduction, our ability to implement our business plan may be adversely affected. we are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff. the loss of the service of any of the members of our senior management, including dr. john maraganore, our chief executive officer, may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives. our employment agreements with our key personnel are terminable without notice. we do not carry key man life insurance on any of our employees. we face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and other research institutions, many of which have substantially greater resources with which to reward qualified individuals than we do. in addition, as a result of our september 2010 and january 2012 corporate restructurings and workforce reductions, we may face additional challenges in retaining our existing employees and recruiting new employees to join our company as our business needs change. we may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our future business plan. our corporate restructuring and workforce reduction plan may not result in anticipated savings, could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected and could disrupt our business. in january 2012, we announced a corporate restructuring and workforce reduction plan pursuant to which we intend to reduce our workforce by approximately 33%. we are taking these actions in order to reduce costs, streamline operations and improve our cost structure, and we expect that this restructuring plan will result in significant savings in 2012 operating expenses. the workforce reduction is expected to be substantially completed by the end of the first quarter of 2012. as a result of the reduction in workforce, we expect to record restructuring charges and make future payments of approximately $4.0 million, a substantial portion of which we anticipate will be recorded in the first quarter of 2012. these estimated restructuring charges are based on a number of assumptions. actual results may differ materially and additional charges not currently expected may be incurred in connection with, or as a result of, these reductions. in addition, we may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits, savings and improvements in our cost structure from our restructuring efforts due to unforeseen difficulties, delays or unexpected costs. if we are unable to achieve the anticipated benefits, savings or improvements in our cost structure in the expected time frame or other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. our restructuring plan may be disruptive to our operations. for example, cost savings measures may distract management from our core business, harm our reputation, yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond planned reductions in workforce, or increased difficulties in our day-to-day operations, and may adversely affect employee morale. our workforce reductions could also harm our ability to attract and retain qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel who are critical to our business. any failure to attract or retain qualified personnel could prevent us from successfully developing and commercializing our products and product candidates in the future.   52 table of contents we may have difficulty expanding our operations successfully as we seek to evolve from a company primarily involved in discovery and pre-clinical testing into one that develops and commercializes drugs. despite our recent workforce reduction in connection with our strategic corporate restructuring, we expect that as we seek to increase the number of product candidates we are developing we will need to expand our operations in the future. this growth may place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. if product candidates we develop enter and advance through clinical trials, we will need to expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities or contract with other organizations to provide these capabilities for us. as our operations expand due to our development progress, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaborators, suppliers and other organizations. our ability to manage our operations and future growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. we may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. our business and operations could suffer in the event of system failures. despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication and electrical failures. such events could cause interruption of our operations. for example, the loss of pre-clinical trial data or data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory filings and development efforts and significantly increase our costs. to the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the development of our product candidates could be delayed. risks related to our industry risks related to development, clinical testing and regulatory approval of our product candidates any product candidates we develop may fail in development or be delayed to a point where they do not become commercially viable. before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial distribution of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive pre-clinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. pre-clinical and clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome, and the historical failure rate for product candidates is high. we currently have several programs in clinical development. we are developing aln-rsv01 for the treatment of rsv infection. in february 2010, we initiated a phase iib clinical trial to evaluate the clinical efficacy endpoints as well as safety of aerosolized aln-rsv01 in adult lung transplant patients naturally infected with rsv. the objective of this phase iib clinical trial is to repeat and extend the clinical results observed in a phase iia clinical trial. in addition, in august 2011, we completed a phase i clinical trial for aln-vsp, our first systemically delivered rnai therapeutic. we are developing aln-vsp for the treatment of primary and secondary liver cancer. in july 2010, we also initiated a phase i clinical trial for aln-ttr01, our second systemically delivered rnai therapeutic, which targets the ttr gene for the treatment of attr. in september 2011, we initiated a phase i clinical trial for aln-pcs for the treatment of severe hypercholesteremia. aln-pcs is formulated in a proprietary second-generation lnp formulation. however, we may not be able to further advance these or any other product candidate through clinical trials. if we enter into clinical trials, the results from pre-clinical testing or early clinical trials of a product candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained in subsequent human clinical trials of that product candidate or any other product candidate. for example, aln-rsv01 may not demonstrate the same results in the phase iib clinical trial as it did in our phase iia clinical trial. in addition, aln-vsp, aln-ttr01 and aln-pcs employ novel delivery formulations that have yet to be extensively evaluated in human clinical trials and proven   53 table of contents safe and effective. we, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities, or an institutional review board, or irb, or similar foreign review board or committee, may suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time for various reasons, including if we or they believe the subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. among other reasons, adverse side effects of a product candidate on subjects or patients in a clinical trial could result in the fda or foreign regulatory authorities suspending or terminating the trial and refusing to approve a particular product candidate for any or all indications of use. clinical trials of a new product candidate require the enrollment of a sufficient number of patients, including patients who are suffering from the disease the product candidate is intended to treat and who meet other eligibility criteria. rates of patient enrollment are affected by many factors, including the size of the patient population, the age and condition of the patients, the stage and severity of disease, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the seasonality of infections and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in our aln-vsp clinical trial, one patient with advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine cancer with extensive involvement of the liver developed hepatic failure five days following the second dose of aln-vsp and subsequently died; this was deemed possibly related to the study drug. six additional patients treated at the same dose did not exhibit any evidence of hepatotoxicity. in august 2011, we announced the completion of the aln-vsp clinical trial. in our aln-pcs clinical trial, we reported preliminary safety data that a mild, transient rash was observed in five subjects, including two who received placebo. in addition, our aln-ttr01 trial targets a small population of patients suffering from attr. delays or difficulties in patient enrollment or difficulties retaining trial participants can result in increased costs, longer development times or termination of a clinical trial. clinical trials also require the review, oversight and approval of irbs, which continually review clinical investigations and protect the rights and welfare of human subjects. inability to obtain or delay in obtaining irb approval can prevent or delay the initiation and completion of clinical trials, and the fda or foreign regulatory authorities may decide not to consider any data or information derived from a clinical investigation not subject to initial and continuing irb review and approval in support of a marketing application. our product candidates that we develop may encounter problems during clinical trials that will cause us, an irb or regulatory authorities to delay, suspend or terminate these trials, or that will delay or confound the analysis of data from these trials. if we experience any such problems, we may not have the financial resources to continue development of the product candidate that is affected, or development of any of our other product candidates. we may also lose, or be unable to enter into, collaborative arrangements for the affected product candidate and for other product candidates we are developing. a failure of one of more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. we may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, pre-clinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent regulatory approval or our ability to commercialize our product candidates, including:     •   our pre-clinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, or we may abandon projects that we expect to be promising;     •   delays in filing inds or comparable foreign applications or delays or failure in obtaining the necessary approvals from regulators or irbs in order to commence a clinical trial at a prospective trial site, or their suspension or termination of a clinical trial once commenced;     •   conditions imposed on us by the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials;     •   problems in engaging irbs to oversee clinical trials or problems in obtaining or maintaining irb approval of trials;     •   delays in enrolling patients and volunteers into clinical trials, and variability in the number and types of patients and volunteers available for clinical trials;   54 table of contents   •   high drop-out rates for patients and volunteers in clinical trials;     •   negative or inconclusive results from our clinical trials or the clinical trials of others for product candidates similar to ours;     •   inadequate supply or quality of product candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials;     •   greater than anticipated clinical trial costs;     •   serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials or by individuals using drugs similar to our product candidates;     •   poor effectiveness of our product candidates during clinical trials;     •   unfavorable fda or other regulatory agency inspection and review of a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or pre-clinical investigation;     •   failure of our third-party contractors or investigators to comply with regulatory requirements or otherwise meet their contractual obligations in a timely manner, or at all;     •   governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines, including the imposition of additional regulatory oversight around clinical testing generally or with respect to our technology in particular; or     •   varying interpretations of data by the fda and similar foreign regulatory agencies. even if we successfully complete clinical trials of our product candidates, any given product candidate may not prove to be a safe and effective treatment for the diseases for which it was being tested. the regulatory approval process may be delayed for any products we develop that require the use of specialized drug delivery devices, which may require us to incur additional costs and delay receipt of any potential product revenue. some product candidates that we develop may need to be administered using specialized drug delivery devices that deliver rnai therapeutics directly to diseased parts of the body. for example, we believe that product candidates we develop for hd or other central nervous system diseases may need to be administered using such a device. for neurodegenerative diseases, we have entered into a collaboration agreement with medtronic to pursue potential development of drug-device combinations incorporating rnai therapeutics. we may not achieve successful development results under this collaboration and may need to seek other collaborations to develop alternative drug delivery systems, or utilize existing drug delivery systems, for the direct delivery of rnai therapeutics for these diseases. while we expect to rely on drug delivery systems that have been approved by the fda or other regulatory agencies to deliver drugs like ours to diseased parts of the body, we, or our collaborator, may need to modify the design or labeling of such delivery device for some products we may develop. in such an event, the fda may regulate the product as a combination product or require additional approvals or clearances for the modified delivery device. further, to the extent the specialized delivery device is owned by another company, we would need that company’s cooperation to implement the necessary changes to the device, or its labeling, and to obtain any additional approvals or clearances. in cases where we do not have an ongoing collaboration with the company that makes the device, obtaining such additional approvals or clearances and the cooperation of such other company could significantly delay and increase the cost of obtaining marketing approval, which could reduce the commercial viability of our product candidate. in addition, the use of a specialized delivery system, even if previously approved, could complicate the design or analysis of clinical trials for our rnai therapeutics. in summary, we may be unable to find, or experience delays in finding, suitable drug delivery systems to administer rnai therapeutics directly to diseased parts of the body, which could negatively affect our ability to successfully commercialize these rnai therapeutics.   55 table of contents we may be unable to obtain united states or foreign regulatory approval and, as a result, unable to commercialize our product candidates. our product candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to, among other things, research, testing, development, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, approval, recordkeeping, reporting, labeling, storage, marketing and distribution of drugs. rigorous pre-clinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required to be successfully completed in the united states and in many foreign jurisdictions before a new drug can be marketed. satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. it is possible that none of the product candidates we may develop will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for us or our collaborators to begin selling them. we have very limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the fda. the time required to obtain fda and other approvals is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate. the standards that the fda and its foreign counterparts use when regulating us are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. any analysis we perform of data from pre-clinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we may also encounter unexpected delays or increased costs due to new government regulations, for example, from future legislation or administrative action, or from changes in fda policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and fda regulatory review. it is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or whether fda or foreign regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. because the drugs we are developing may represent a new class of drug, the fda and its foreign counterparts have not yet established any definitive policies, practices or guidelines in relation to these drugs. while we believe the product candidates that we are currently developing are regulated as new drugs under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, the fda could decide to regulate them or other products we may develop as biologics under the public health service act. the lack of policies, practices or guidelines may hinder or slow review by the fda of any regulatory filings that we may submit. moreover, the fda may respond to these submissions by defining requirements we may not have anticipated. such responses could lead to significant delays in the clinical development of our product candidates. in addition, because there may be approved treatments for some of the diseases for which we may seek approval, in order to receive regulatory approval, we may need to demonstrate through clinical trials that the product candidates we develop to treat these diseases, if any, are not only safe and effective, but safer or more effective than existing products. furthermore, in recent years, there has been increased public and political pressure on the fda with respect to the approval process for new drugs, and the fda’s standards, especially regarding drug safety, appear to have become more stringent. any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from the particular product candidate for which we are seeking approval. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the approved uses for which we may market the product or the labeling or other restrictions. in addition, the fda has the authority to require a rems plan as part of an nda or bla or after approval, which may impose further requirements or restrictions on the distribution or use of an approved drug or biologic, such as limiting prescribing to certain physicians or medical centers that have undergone specialized training, limiting treatment to patients who meet certain safe-use criteria and requiring treated patients to enroll in a registry. these limitations and restrictions may limit the size of the market for the product and affect reimbursement by third-party payors. we are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing, among other things, the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. the foreign regulatory approval process varies among countries and includes all of the risks associated with fda approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states and vice versa.   56 table of contents even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. if we fail to comply with continuing u.s. and foreign requirements, our approvals could be limited or withdrawn, we could be subject to other penalties, and our business would be seriously harmed. following any initial regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we will also be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products are made commercially available. this would include results from any post-marketing tests or surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the drug product required as a condition of approval or agreed to by us. any regulatory approvals that we receive for our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the approved uses for which the product may be marketed. other ongoing regulatory requirements include, among other things, submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and listing, as well as continued compliance with cgmp requirements and good clinical practices for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. in addition, we are conducting, and intend to continue to conduct, clinical trials for our product candidates, and we intend to seek approval to market our product candidates, in jurisdictions outside of the united states, and therefore will be subject to, and must comply with, regulatory requirements in those jurisdictions. the fda has significant post-market authority, including, for example, the authority to require labeling changes based on new safety information and to require post-market studies or clinical trials to evaluate serious safety risks related to the use of a drug and to require withdrawal of the product from the market. the fda also has the authority to require a rems plan after approval, which may impose further requirements or restrictions on the distribution or use of an approved drug. the manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our product candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the fda and other regulatory agencies. the discovery of any new or previously unknown problems with our third-party manufacturers, manufacturing processes or facilities, may result in restrictions on the drug or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. we do not have, and currently do not intend to develop, the ability to manufacture material for our clinical trials or on a commercial scale. we may manufacture clinical trial materials or we may contract a third party to manufacture these materials for us. reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including reliance on the third-party manufacturer for regulatory compliance. our product promotion and advertising is also subject to regulatory requirements and continuing regulatory review. if we or our collaborators, manufacturers or service providers fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements in the united states or foreign jurisdictions in which we may seek to market our products, we or they may be subject to, among other things, fines, warning letters, holds on clinical trials, refusal by the fda to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, refusal to permit the import or export of products, operating restrictions, injunction, civil penalties and criminal prosecution. even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, the market may not be receptive to our product candidates upon their commercial introduction, which will prevent us from becoming profitable. the product candidates that we are developing are based upon new technologies or therapeutic approaches. key participants in pharmaceutical marketplaces, such as physicians, third-party payors and consumers, may not accept a product intended to improve therapeutic results based on rnai technology. as a result, it may be more difficult for us to convince the medical community and third-party payors to accept and use our product, or to provide favorable reimbursement. other factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of our product candidates include:     •   the timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals, the terms of any approvals and the countries in which approvals are obtained;   57 table of contents   •   the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, as demonstrated in clinical trials;     •   relative convenience and ease of administration of our product candidates;     •   the willingness of patients to accept potentially new routes of administration;     •   the success of our physician education programs;     •   the availability of adequate government and third-party payor coverage and reimbursement;     •   the pricing of our products, particularly as compared to alternative treatments; and     •   availability of alternative effective treatments for the diseases that product candidates we develop are intended to treat and the relative risks, benefits and costs of the treatments. if we or our collaborators, manufacturers or service providers fail to comply with healthcare laws and regulations, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to develop, market and sell our products and may harm our reputation. as a manufacturer of pharmaceuticals, we are subject to federal, state, and foreign healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients’ rights. these laws and regulations include:     •   the u.s. federal healthcare program anti-kickback law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual for a healthcare item or service, or the purchasing or ordering of an item or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as medicare or medicaid;     •   the u.s. federal false claims law, which prohibits, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented, claims for payment by government funded programs such as medicare or medicaid that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to us by virtue of statements and representations made to customers or third parties;     •   the u.s. federal health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa, and health information technology for economic and clinical health, or hitech, act, which prohibit executing a scheme to defraud healthcare programs; impose requirements relating to the privacy, security, and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and require notification to affected individuals and regulatory authorities of certain breaches of security of individually identifiable health information; and     •   state laws comparable to each of the above federal laws, such as, for example, anti-kickback and false claims laws applicable to commercial insurers and other non-federal payors, requirements for mandatory corporate regulatory compliance programs, and laws relating to patient data privacy and security. if our operations are found to be in violation of any such requirements, we may be subject to penalties, including civil or criminal penalties, monetary damages, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, loss of eligibility to obtain approvals from the fda, or exclusion from participation in government contracting, healthcare reimbursement or other government programs, including medicare and medicaid, any of which could adversely our financial results. although effective compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, these risks cannot be entirely eliminated. any action against us for an alleged or suspected violation could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and could divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business, even if our defense is successful. in addition, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations may be costly to us in terms of money, time and resources. if we or our collaborators, manufacturers or service providers fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to develop, market and sell our products successfully and could harm our reputation and lead to reduced acceptance of our products by the market. these enforcement actions include, among others:     •   adverse regulatory inspection findings;   58 table of contents   •   warning letters;     •   voluntary or mandatory product recalls or public notification or medical product safety alerts to healthcare professionals;     •   restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing our products;     •   restrictions on, or prohibitions against, importation or exportation of our products;     •   suspension of review or refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications;     •   exclusion from participation in government-funded healthcare programs;     •   exclusion from eligibility for the award of government contracts for our products;     •   suspension or withdrawal of product approvals;     •   product seizures;     •   injunctions; and     •   civil and criminal penalties and fines. any drugs we develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, thereby harming our business. the regulations that govern marketing approvals, pricing and reimbursement for new drugs vary widely from country to country. some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. in many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. in some foreign markets, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. although we intend to monitor these regulations, our programs are currently in the early stages of development and we will not be able to assess the impact of price regulations for a number of years. as a result, we might obtain regulatory approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay our commercial launch of the product and negatively impact the revenues we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that country. our ability to commercialize any products successfully also will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. even if we succeed in bringing one or more products to the market, these products may not be considered cost-effective, and the amount reimbursed for any products may be insufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. because our programs are in the early stages of development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost effectiveness or the likely level or method of reimbursement. increasingly, the third-party payors who reimburse patients, such as government and private insurance plans, are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices, and are seeking to reduce the prices charged for pharmaceutical products. if the price we are able to charge for any products we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our profitability could be adversely affected. we currently expect that any drugs we develop may need to be administered under the supervision of a physician. under currently applicable u.s. law, drugs that are not usually self-administered may be eligible for coverage by the medicare program if:     •   they are incident to a physician’s services;     •   they are reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are administered according to accepted standards of medical practice;     •   they are not excluded as immunizations; and     •   they have been approved by the fda.   59 table of contents there may be significant delays in obtaining coverage for newly-approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the drug is approved by the fda. moreover, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any drug will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. interim payments for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. reimbursement may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost drugs that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other services and may reflect budgetary constraints or imperfections in medicare data. net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the united states. third-party payors often rely upon medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. our inability to promptly obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for new drugs that we develop and for which we obtain regulatory approval could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products, and our overall financial condition. we believe that the efforts of governments and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare and legislative and regulatory proposals to broaden the availability of healthcare will continue to affect the business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. a number of legislative and regulatory changes in the healthcare system in the united states and other major healthcare markets have been proposed in recent years, and such efforts have expanded substantially in recent years. these developments have included prescription drug benefit legislation that was enacted and took effect in january 2006, healthcare reform legislation enacted by certain states, and major healthcare reform legislation that was passed by congress and enacted into law in the united states in 2010. these developments could, directly or indirectly, affect our ability to sell our products, if approved, at a favorable price. in particular, in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act, or ppaca, and a related reconciliation bill were signed into law. this new legislation changes the current system of healthcare insurance and benefits intended to broaden coverage and control costs. the new law also contains provisions that will affect companies in the pharmaceutical industry and other healthcare related industries by imposing additional costs and changes to business practices. provisions affecting pharmaceutical companies include the following:     •   mandatory rebates for drugs sold into the medicaid program have been increased, and the rebate requirement has been extended to drugs used in risk-based medicaid managed care plans.     •   the 340b drug pricing program under the public health services act has been extended to require mandatory discounts for drug products sold to certain critical access hospitals, cancer hospitals and other covered entities.     •   pharmaceutical companies are required to offer discounts on brand-name drugs to patients who fall within the medicare part d coverage gap, commonly referred to as the “donut hole.”     •   pharmaceutical companies are required to pay an annual non-tax deductible fee to the federal government based on each company’s market share of prior year total sales of branded products to certain federal healthcare programs, such as medicare, medicaid, department of veterans affairs and department of defense. since we expect our branded pharmaceutical sales to constitute a small portion of the total federal health program pharmaceutical market, we do not expect this annual assessment to have a material impact on our financial condition.     •   the new law provides that approval of an application for a follow-on biologic product may not become effective until 12 years after the date on which the prior innovator biologic product was first licensed by the fda, with a possible six-month extension for pediatric products. after this exclusivity ends, it will be easier for generic manufacturers to enter the market, which is likely to reduce the pricing for such products and could affect the company’s profitability. the full effects of the u.s. healthcare reform legislation cannot be known until the new law is implemented through regulations or guidance issued by the centers for medicare & medicaid services and other federal and   60 table of contents state healthcare agencies. the financial impact of the u.s. healthcare reform legislation over the next few years will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited, to the policies reflected in implementing regulations and guidance, and changes in sales volumes for products affected by the new system of rebates, discounts and fees. the new legislation may also have a positive impact on our future net sales, if any, by increasing the aggregate number of persons with healthcare coverage in the united states, but such increases are unlikely to be realized until approximately 2014 at the earliest. moreover, we cannot predict what healthcare reform initiatives may be adopted in the future. further federal and state legislative and regulatory developments are likely, and we expect ongoing initiatives in the united states to increase pressure on drug pricing. such reforms could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenues from product candidates that we may successfully develop and for which we may obtain regulatory approval and may affect our overall financial condition and ability to develop drug candidates. there is a substantial risk of product liability claims in our business. if we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business. our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. product liability claims could delay or prevent completion of our clinical development programs. if we succeed in marketing products, such claims could result in an fda investigation of the safety and effectiveness of our products, our manufacturing processes and facilities or our marketing programs, and potentially a recall of our products or more serious enforcement action, limitations on the approved indications for which they may be used, or suspension or withdrawal of approvals. regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may also result in injury to our reputation, costs to defend the related litigation, a diversion of management’s time and our resources, and substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients. we currently have product liability insurance that we believe is appropriate for our stage of development and may need to obtain higher levels prior to marketing any of our product candidates. any insurance we have or may obtain may not provide sufficient coverage against potential liabilities. furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. as a result, we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses caused by product liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development involves the use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. we maintain quantities of various flammable and toxic chemicals in our facilities in cambridge that are required for our research and development activities. we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. we believe our procedures for storing, handling and disposing these materials in our cambridge facility comply with the relevant guidelines of the city of cambridge and the commonwealth of massachusetts. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards mandated by applicable regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. we do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us in connection with our storage or disposal of biological, hazardous or radioactive materials. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations.   61 table of contents risks related to patents, licenses and trade secrets if we are not able to obtain and enforce patent protection for our discoveries, our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates will be harmed. our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the united states and other countries, so that we can prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information. however, we may not hold proprietary rights to some patents required for us to commercialize our proposed products. because certain u.s. patent applications are confidential until the patents issue, such as applications filed prior to november 29, 2000, or applications filed after such date which will not be filed in foreign countries, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over those applications. for this and other reasons, we may be unable to secure desired patent rights, thereby losing desired exclusivity. further, we may be required to obtain licenses under third-party patents to market our proposed products or conduct our research and development or other activities. if licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we will not be able to market the affected products or conduct the desired activities. our strategy depends on our ability to rapidly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries. in addition, we may rely on third-party collaborators to file patent applications relating to proprietary technology that we develop jointly during certain collaborations. the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming. if our present or future collaborators fail to file and prosecute all necessary and desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner, our business will be adversely affected. despite our efforts and the efforts of our collaborators to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. while issued patents are presumed valid, this does not guarantee that the patent will survive a validity challenge or be held enforceable. any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated, adjudged unenforceable or circumvented by parties attempting to design around our intellectual property. moreover, third parties or the uspto may commence interference proceedings involving our patents or patent applications. for example, during 2011, the uspto declared an interference between our issued patent covering aln-vsp, our rnai therapeutic undergoing clinical testing for the treatment of liver cancers, and a pending third-party application assigned to protiva (which was acquired by tekmira in 2008), the effect of which called into question the validity and/or enforceability of our patent. the interference proceedings are ongoing. if protiva is successful in obtaining a dominating claim, we would require a license to protiva’s patent to commercialize aln-vsp in the united states. any challenge to, finding of unenforceability or invalidation or circumvention of, our patents or patent applications, would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business. our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. the patent position of pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. the standards that the uspto and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. similarly, the ultimate degree of protection that will be afforded to biotechnology inventions, including ours, in the united states and foreign countries, remains uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of the protection decided upon by patent offices, courts and lawmakers. moreover, there are periodic discussions in the congress of the united states and in international jurisdictions about modifying various aspects of patent law. for example, the america invents act was recently enacted into law and includes a number of changes to the patent laws of the united states. if any changes to the patent laws are enacted and do not provide adequate protection for discoveries, including our ability to pursue infringers of our patents for substantial damages, our business could be adversely affected. there is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents. accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. we also rely to a certain extent on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. if any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by   62 table of contents a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. we license patent rights from third-party owners. if such owners do not properly or successfully obtain, maintain or enforce the patents underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. we are a party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful for our business. in particular, we have obtained licenses from, among others, crt, isis, mit, whitehead, max planck, tekmira, utsw and arrowhead. we also intend to enter into additional licenses to third-party intellectual property in the future. our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for our licensed intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications to which we are licensed. even if patents issue in respect of these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. in addition, we sublicense our rights under various third-party licenses to our collaborators. any impairment of these sublicensed rights could result in reduced revenues under our collaboration agreements or result in termination of an agreement by one or more of our collaborators. other companies or organizations may challenge our patent rights or may assert patent rights that prevent us from developing and commercializing our products. rnai is a relatively new scientific field, the commercial exploitation of which has resulted in many different patents and patent applications from organizations and individuals seeking to obtain patent protection in the field. we have obtained grants and issuances of rnai patents and have licensed many of these patents from third parties on an exclusive basis. the issued patents and pending patent applications in the united states and in key markets around the world that we own or license claim many different methods, compositions and processes relating to the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization of rnai therapeutics. specifically, we have a portfolio of patents, patent applications and other intellectual property covering: fundamental aspects of the structure and uses of sirnas, including their manufacture and use as therapeutics, and rnai-related mechanisms; chemical modifications to sirnas that improve their suitability for therapeutic uses; sirnas directed to specific targets as treatments for particular diseases; and delivery technologies, such as in the field of cationic liposomes. as the field of rnai therapeutics is maturing, patent applications are being fully processed by national patent offices around the world. there is uncertainty about which patents will issue, and, if they do, as to when, to whom, and with what claims. it is likely that there will be significant litigation and other proceedings, such as interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings, in various patent offices relating to patent rights in the rnai field. for example, various third parties have initiated oppositions to patents in our kreutzer-limmer and tuschl ii series in the epo and in other jurisdictions. we expect that additional oppositions will be filed in the epo and elsewhere, and other challenges will be raised relating to other patents and patent applications in our portfolio. in many cases, the possibility of appeal exists for either us or our opponents, and it may be years before final, unappealable rulings are made with respect to these patents in certain jurisdictions. the timing and outcome of these and other proceedings is uncertain and may adversely affect our business if we are not successful in defending the patentability and scope of our pending and issued patent claims. in addition, third parties may attempt to invalidate our intellectual property rights. even if our rights are not directly challenged, disputes could lead to the weakening of our intellectual property rights. our defense against any attempt by third   63 table of contents parties to circumvent or invalidate our intellectual property rights could be costly to us, could require significant time and attention of our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to successfully compete in the field of rnai. there are many issued and pending patents that claim aspects of oligonucleotide chemistry that we may need to apply to our sirna therapeutic candidates. there are also many issued patents that claim targeting genes or portions of genes that may be relevant for sirna drugs we wish to develop. thus, it is possible that one or more organizations will hold patent rights to which we will need a license. if those organizations refuse to grant us a license to such patent rights on reasonable terms, we may not be able to market products or perform research and development or other activities covered by these patents. if we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs and expenses, substantial liability for damages or be required to stop our product development and commercialization efforts. third parties may sue us for infringing their patent rights. likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of proprietary rights of others. for example, on january 17, 2012, we filed a complaint in the u.s. district court for the district of massachusetts against tekmira for patent infringement arising from tekmira’s research activities providing lnp-formulated sirna molecules to a pharmaceutical collaborator. as alleged in the complaint, we do not believe tekmira’s activities are protected under the exemption from patent infringement for drug development. pursuant to the complaint, we believe tekmira has infringed a number of issued patents related to sirna and lnp technologies, including: u.s. patent no. 7,695,902; u.s. patent no. 6,858,225; u.s. patent no. 6,815,432; u.s. patent no. 6,534,484; u.s. patent no. 6,586,410; and u.s. patent no. 6,858,224. under our contractual right to enforce u.s. patent no. 7,695,902 owned by isis, we joined isis to the suit as a co-plaintiff. we and isis are seeking judgment that tekmira has infringed the patents at issue, a permanent injunction enjoining the infringing activities, damages, and costs and expenses, including attorneys’ fees. in addition, a third party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. for example, in march 2011, tekmira and protiva filed a civil complaint against us in the business litigation section of the suffolk county superior court, in boston, massachusetts, and in june 2011, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint adding alcana, a research collaborator of ours, as a defendant. the amended complaint alleges misappropriation of the plaintiffs’ confidential and proprietary information and trade secrets, civil conspiracy and tortious interference with contractual relationships by us and alcana, and unjust enrichment, contractual breach, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, unfair competition, false advertising, unfair and deceptive trade practices by us. the plaintiffs seek, among other relief, injunctive relief, unspecified compensatory and punitive damages, attorneys’ fees, the termination of licenses that the plaintiffs provided to us and the relinquishment and transfer of certain of our intellectual property rights, including patents covering our mc3 technology. in april 2011, we served and filed an answer to the plaintiffs’ original complaint denying the plaintiffs’ claims and asserted counterclaims against the plaintiffs. in june 2011, we served and filed an answer to the plaintiffs’ amended complaint denying the plaintiffs’ claims and asserted counterclaims against the plaintiffs for breach of contract, defamation, breach of covenant not to sue, breach of patent prosecution and non-use provisions, misappropriation of confidential and proprietary information and trade secrets, unjust enrichment, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, as well as violations of massachusetts statutes. we are seeking monetary damages, attorneys’ fees and equitable relief on our counterclaims. in september 2011, the court granted the plaintiffs’ motion to dismiss our counterclaim for defamation. the plaintiffs did not move to dismiss any of our other counterclaims, all of which remain pending. the case is currently in discovery and we expect a trial to start in october 2012. we intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. however, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainty and this matter could ultimately be decided against us and we could be required to pay substantial damages. we have also incurred, and will continue to incur during the pendency of the litigation, significant costs, and the defense of this litigation has diverted, and until resolved will continue to divert, the attention of our management and other resources that would otherwise be engaged in other activities.   64 table of contents furthermore, third parties may challenge the inventorship of our patents or licensed patents. for example, in march 2011, the university of utah, or utah, filed a complaint in the united states district court for the district of massachusetts against us, max planck gesellschaft zur forderung der wissenschaften e.v. and max planck innovation, together, max planck, whitehead, mit and umass, claiming that a professor of utah is the sole inventor, or in the alternative, a joint inventor of certain of our in-licensed patents. the original complaint was not served on any of the parties and, in july 2011, utah filed an amended complaint containing substantially the same claims as the original complaint against us, max planck, whitehead, mit and umass. the amended complaint alleges the defendants have incorrectly determined inventorship of some of our in-licensed patents and further claims unjust enrichment, unfair competition, false advertising and seeks correction of inventorship, injunctive relief and unspecified damages. in october 2011, we, max planck, whitehead, mit and umass filed a motion to dismiss and umass filed a motion to dismiss on separate grounds, which we, max planck, whitehead and mit have joined. in december 2011, utah filed a second amended complaint dropping umass as a defendant and adding as defendants several umass officials. we intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter, however, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainty and a court could ultimately rule against us. in addition, in connection with certain license and collaboration agreements, we have agreed to indemnify certain third parties for certain costs incurred in connection with litigation relating to intellectual property rights or the subject matter of the agreements. the cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and litigation would divert our management’s efforts. some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could delay our research and development efforts and limit our ability to continue our operations. if any parties successfully claim that our creation or use of proprietary technologies infringes upon or otherwise violates their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. in addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. in addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. if we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology and products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. moreover, we expect that a number of our collaborations will provide that royalties payable to us for licenses to our intellectual property may be offset by amounts paid by our collaborators to third parties who have competing or superior intellectual property positions in the relevant fields, which could result in significant reductions in our revenues from products developed through collaborations. if we fail to comply with our obligations under any licenses or related agreements, we could lose license or other rights that are necessary for developing and protecting our rnai technology and any related product candidates that we develop, or we could lose certain exclusive rights to grant sublicenses. our current licenses impose, and any future licenses we enter into are likely to impose, various development, commercialization, funding, royalty, diligence, sublicensing, insurance, patent prosecution and enforcement, and other obligations on us. if we breach any of these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license or render the license non-exclusive, which could result in us being unable to develop, manufacture and sell products that are covered by the licensed technology or enable a competitor to gain access to the licensed technology. for example, in connection with its lawsuit against us, tekmira has alleged that we breached our license agreements with it and protiva and is seeking that the court terminate such license agreements. if this matter is decided in tekmira’s favor, we could lose access to certain aspects of our lnp delivery technology, including mc3, which would adversely impact certain of our clinical development programs, or be required to pay additional milestones and royalties to tekmira. in addition, while we cannot currently determine the amount of the royalty obligations we will be required to pay on sales of future products,   65 table of contents if any, the amounts may be significant. the amount of our future royalty obligations will depend on the technology and intellectual property we use in products that we successfully develop and commercialize, if any. therefore, even if we successfully develop and commercialize products, we may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability. confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. in order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers, and other advisors. these agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. in addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. risks related to competition the pharmaceutical market is intensely competitive. if we are unable to compete effectively with existing drugs, new treatment methods and new technologies, we may be unable to commercialize successfully any drugs that we develop. the pharmaceutical market is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the development of novel drugs for the same diseases that we are targeting or expect to target. many of our competitors have:     •   much greater financial, technical and human resources than we have at every stage of the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization of products;     •   more extensive experience in pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and in manufacturing, marketing and selling pharmaceutical products;     •   product candidates that are based on previously tested or accepted technologies;     •   products that have been approved or are in late stages of development; and     •   collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. we will face intense competition from drugs that have already been approved and accepted by the medical community for the treatment of the conditions for which we may develop drugs. we also expect to face competition from new drugs that enter the market. we believe a significant number of drugs are currently under development, and may become commercially available in the future, for the treatment of conditions for which we may try to develop drugs. for instance, we are currently evaluating rnai therapeutics for attr, hemophilia, severe hypercholesterolemia, refractory anemia, hemoglobinopathies, including beta-thalassemia and sickle-cell anemia, rsv, liver cancers and hd, and have a number of additional discovery programs targeting other diseases. these drugs may be more effective, safer, less expensive, or marketed and sold more effectively, than any products we develop. if we successfully develop product candidates, and obtain approval for them, we will face competition based on many different factors, including:     •   the safety and effectiveness of our products;     •   the ease with which our products can be administered and the extent to which patients accept relatively new routes of administration;   66 table of contents   •   the timing and scope of regulatory approvals for these products;     •   the availability and cost of manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities;     •   price;     •   reimbursement coverage; and     •   patent position. our competitors may develop or commercialize products with significant advantages over any products we develop based on any of the factors listed above or on other factors. our competitors may therefore be more successful in commercializing their products than we are, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. competitive products may make any products we develop obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing our product candidates. such competitors could also recruit our employees, which could negatively impact our level of expertise and the ability to execute on our business plan. furthermore, we also face competition from existing and new treatment methods that reduce or eliminate the need for drugs, such as the use of advanced medical devices. the development of new medical devices or other treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could make our product candidates noncompetitive, obsolete or uneconomical. we face competition from other companies that are working to develop novel drugs and technology platforms using technology similar to ours. if these companies develop drugs more rapidly than we do or their technologies, including delivery technologies, are more effective, our ability to successfully commercialize drugs may be adversely affected. in addition to the competition we face from competing drugs in general, we also face competition from other companies working to develop novel drugs using technology that competes more directly with our own. we are aware of multiple companies that are working in the field of rnai. in addition, we granted licenses or options for licenses to isis, genecare research institute co., ltd., benitec, arrowhead and its subsidiary, calando, tekmira, quark, sylentis and others under which these companies may independently develop rnai therapeutics against a limited number of targets. any of these companies may develop its rnai technology more rapidly and more effectively than us. merck was one of our collaborators and a licensee under our intellectual property for specified disease targets until september 2007, at which time we and merck agreed to terminate our collaboration. as a result of its acquisition of sirna in december 2006, and in light of the mutual termination of our collaboration, merck, which has substantially more resources and experience in developing drugs than we do, may become a direct competitor. in addition, as a result of agreements that we have entered into, arrowhead, as the assignee of roche, and takeda have obtained non-exclusive licenses, and novartis has obtained specific exclusive licenses for 31 gene targets, to certain aspects of our technology that give them the right to compete with us in certain circumstances we also compete with companies working to develop antisense-based drugs. like rnai therapeutics, antisense drugs target messenger rnas, or mrnas, in order to suppress the activity of specific genes. isis is currently marketing an antisense drug and has several antisense product candidates in clinical trials. the development of antisense drugs is more advanced than that of rnai therapeutics, and antisense technology may become the preferred technology for drugs that target mrnas to silence specific genes. in addition to competition with respect to rnai and with respect to specific products, we face substantial competition to discover and develop safe and effective means to deliver sirnas to the relevant cell and tissue types. safe and effective means to deliver sirnas to the relevant cell and tissue types may be developed by our competitors, and our ability to successfully commercialize a competitive product would be adversely affected. in addition, substantial resources are being expended by third parties in the effort to discover and develop a safe and effective means of delivering sirnas into the relevant cell and tissue types, both in academic laboratories and in the corporate sector. some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, and if our   67 table of contents competitors are able to negotiate exclusive access to those delivery solutions developed by third parties, we may be unable to successfully commercialize our product candidates. our alnylam biotherapeutics efforts will also face competition from established companies developing and commercializing technology applications to improve the manufacturing processes for drugs. if these companies advance and market their technologies more rapidly than alnylam biotherapeutics, we may be unable to establish collaborations for alnylam biotherapeutics with established biologic manufacturers, selling licenses, products and services. risks related to our common stock if our stock price fluctuates, purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. the market price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to factors that are beyond our control. the stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. the market prices of securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. these broad market fluctuations could result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause purchasers of our common stock to incur substantial losses. we may incur significant costs from class action litigation due to our expected stock volatility. our stock price may fluctuate for many reasons, including as a result of public announcements regarding the progress of our development efforts or the development efforts of our collaborators and/or competitors, the addition or departure of our key personnel, variations in our quarterly operating results and changes in market valuations of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. when the market price of a stock has been volatile as our stock price may be, holders of that stock have occasionally brought securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. if any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit of this type against us, even if the lawsuit is without merit, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. the lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. novartis’ ownership of our common stock could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. at december 31, 2011, novartis held 13.1% of our outstanding common stock and has the right to maintain its ownership percentage until the earlier of any sale by novartis of shares of our common stock and the expiration or termination of our collaboration and license agreement, subject to certain exceptions. this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by:     •   delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company;     •   impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or     •   discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. sales of additional shares of our common stock could result in dilution to existing stockholders and cause the price of our common stock to decline. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the availability of such shares for sale, by us or others could adversely affect the price of our common stock. novartis has rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering its shares or to include its shares in registration statements that we file. in addition, if novartis decides to sell a portion of its shares in a rapid or disorderly manner, our stock price could be negatively impacted.   68 table of contents anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law and our stockholder rights plan could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. in addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. these provisions include:     •   a classified board of directors;     •   a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent;     •   limitations on the removal of directors; and     •   advance notice requirements for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. in addition, our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan, the provisions of which could make it difficult for a potential acquirer of alnylam to consummate an acquisition transaction. moreover, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. these provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some stockholders.   69 table of contents item 1b. unresolved