item 1a. risk factors   investing in our common stock has a high degree of risk. before making an investment in our common stock, you should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes and “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.” any of the risk factors described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business our growth may place a strain on our resources that could adversely affect our systems, controls and operating efficiency.   the growth that we have experienced in the past, as well as any future growth that we may experience, could place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our management information and reporting systems and financial management controls. we do not have experience scheduling courses and administering programs for more students than our current enrollment, and if growth negatively impacts our ability to do so, the learning experience for our students could be adversely affected, resulting in a higher rate of student attrition and fewer student referrals. we also have limited experience adding to our courses, programs and operations through acquisitions. prior to the acquisition of hondros college, nursing programs, or hcon, we had no experience operating physical campuses where students attend class and otherwise participate in educational activities, and we have no experience opening new campus locations. future growth will also require continued improvement of our internal controls and systems, particularly those related to complying with federal regulations under the higher education act of 1965, or hea, as administered by the u.s. department of education, or ed, including as a result of our participation in student financial aid programs authorized under title iv of the hea, or title iv programs. we have described some of the most significant regulatory risks that apply to us, including those related to title iv programs, under the heading “risks related to the regulation of our industry” below. if we are unable to manage our growth or successfully carry out and integrate acquisitions, including the hcon integration, we may also experience operating inefficiencies that could increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability and results of operations.     30     we have continued to experience increases in our administrative and infrastructure expenses, our exposure to bad debt and unpredictability in our enrollment.   since american public university system, or apus, began participating in title iv programs, a significant portion of our growth has been attributable to students using funds from those programs.  as a result, we have experienced a change in the composition of our student body, which has resulted, and will continue to result, in a need to provide a greater level of services to our students.  the hcon acquisition has further changed the composition of our student body, adding additional students using title iv program funds, as well as students who attend classes at physical campuses. our costs and expenses have increased due in part to increased general and administrative expenses related to these changes and primarily attributable to an increase in expenditures for financial aid processing, expenditures for technology required to support the increase in non-military students at apus and increased bad debt primarily associated with non-military students at apus.  in order to support the number of apus students we now have and plan for the future and to provide the technology experience and access across a variety of platforms that we believe students will come to expect, we anticipate that we will continue to make significant investments in our technology infrastructure and financial aid processing capabilities. the change in the composition of our student body has also made it harder for us to make long-range forecasts about student enrollments.  we have had more difficulty forecasting the number of students who will enroll and have noticed a decrease in the predictability of the rate at which we convert leads into enrolled students, which we attribute, in part, to the growth in non-military students, and particularly the growth in non-military students from outside of public safety communities.  if we are unable to manage changes in the composition of our student body and control the growth of related expenditures, we may experience operating inefficiencies that could increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. future growth or increased technology demands will require continued investment of capital, time and resources to develop and update our technology, and if we are unable to increase the capacity of our resources appropriately, our ability to handle growth, our ability to attract or retain students and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.    our rate of growth and expectations for the future require us to increase the capacity and capabilities of our technology infrastructure. increasing the capacity and capabilities of our technology infrastructure will require us to invest capital, time and resources, which we expect from time to time will lead to increased spending on technology infrastructure, not all of which can be capitalized.  there is no assurance that, even with sufficient investment, our systems will be scalable to accommodate future growth. we will also need to invest capital, time and resources to update our technology in response to competitive pressures in the marketplace, including increased demands for interactive solutions and access from mobile platforms, and we will have to make similar investments to integrate the technology systems of hcon and any other business we may acquire in the future. if we are unable to increase the capacity of our resources or update our resources appropriately, our ability to handle growth, our ability to attract or retain students, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. similarly, even if we are able to increase the capacity of our resources and update our resources appropriately, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by an increased level of spending. the ability of active duty service members to enroll in our courses can be impacted by factors that we do not anticipate, which can impact our registrations and make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast expected enrollment. due to the variability of military activity and other factors over which we have no control, at times it may be difficult to predict military enrollments.  for example, beginning with registrations for the third quarter of 2010, growth of our net course registrations from active duty service members slowed more than we expected.  while we do not know all of the factors that caused this to occur, we believe that the changes we saw in net course registrations from students who are active service members in the united states armed forces were in part due to increased operations activity and overseas deployments across all branches of the military, particularly the level of activity in the united states marine corps.  we believe that increased demands on many active duty service members, combined with limited internet access associated with some deployments, impacted the ability of certain active duty military students to pursue higher education in 2010. if these or other factors occur in the future it could make it more difficult to predict enrollments. any decline in the enrollments, or decline in the growth of enrollments, from active duty military students could have an adverse impact on our total net course registrations and revenues.   tuition assistance programs offered to service members of the united states armed forces constituted 34% of our adjusted net course registrations for 2013, and our revenues and number of students would decrease if we are no longer able to receive funds under these tuition assistance programs or tuition assistance is reduced, eliminated, or temporarily suspended.   service members of the united states armed forces are eligible to receive tuition assistance from their branch of service through the uniform tuition assistance program of the department of defense, or dod tuition assistance programs. service members may use dod tuition assistance programs to pursue postsecondary education at institutions that are accredited by accrediting agencies recognized by the u.s. secretary of education and that satisfy other requirements, including execution of, and compliance with, a memorandum of understanding that specifies terms and conditions of participation in dod tuition assistance programs.  a significant portion of our students rely on dod tuition assistance programs to pay for their education at apus.  these  programs constituted 34% of our adjusted net course registrations for 2013.  at this time, hcon does not participate in dod tuition assistance programs.   31     even temporary suspensions of dod tuition assistance programs adversely affect our operations.  in march 2013, in response to automatic, across-the-board reductions in federal spending (also known as “sequestration”), each of the military services suspended new enrollments in dod tuition assistance programs.  as a result of congressional action, each of the services reinstated enrollments in dod tuition assistance programs in april 2013. however, our results of operations in the second quarter of 2013 were negatively impacted by these actions, resulting in what we believe were fewer enrollments from service members than otherwise would have been expected.  in october 2013, dod tuition assistance programs were temporarily suspended as a result of the u.s. government partial shutdown. on october 1, 2013, prior to the government shutdown, apus course registrations for october 2013 were approximately 41,200. as of october 14, 2013, however, approximately 13,100 registrations had been dropped, resulting in a net course registration reduction of approximately 20% compared to october 2012.  we believe that many of these dropped registrations resulted from the suspension of dod tuition assistance programs. after the government shutdown ended, dod resumed its tuition assistance programs; however we do not believe that the registrations for subsequent months served to replace, or make up, all of the registrations that were dropped. although the u.s. congress has passed legislation to extend government funding through september 30, 2014, if funding is not extended beyond that date, another government shutdown could occur, resulting in another suspension of dod tuition assistance programs. any future government shutdown or suspension of dod tuition assistance programs could have a material adverse effect on our operations. while dod tuition assistance programs were reinstated and the government shutdown ended, budgetary pressures remain, and we do not know the full scale of future actions that may be taken with respect to dod tuition assistance programs, which could include eliminating those programs, reducing the funds or benefits (or both) available under those programs or enacting new restrictions on participation in those programs.  if funds available under dod tuition assistance programs are reduced or eliminated, we believe that most service members would be eligible and able to finance out-of-pocket tuition costs resulting from this shortfall using their benefits under the montgomery gi bill or the post-9/11 veterans educational assistance act of 2008, as amended, or the post-9/11 gi bill, through the “top-up” program. the “top-up” program allows active-duty service members to use their gi bill or post-9/11 gi bill benefits to pay the difference between the total cost of a college course and the amount of dod tuition assistance that is paid by the military for the course. however, we do not know whether in the long-term service members would be willing to use the top-up option, or whether the increased administrative process in using the top-up option or covering the shortfall through other funding sources would lead to service members deciding not to enroll or enrolling at a slower rate.   other administrative changes to dod programs could also have negative effects on our enrollments.  for example, in march 2013, dod issued an instruction restricting the ability of service members in certain overseas duty locations outside the continental united states, or overseas locations, to receive dod tuition assistance for courses offered by institutions of higher education that are not parties to contracts with the dod to provide dod voluntary education programs at those locations. because we do not have contract with the dod to provide instruction at overseas locations, service members who begin a postsecondary education program after arrival in an applicable overseas duty location may not use dod tuition assistance programs to pay for their education in our programs until after they have successfully completed a course with an institution that has a contract to provide voluntary education programs at that overseas location. service members who were already enrolled in one of our programs before arriving at an overseas duty location may continue to receive dod tuition assistance for the in-progress program, but they will be encouraged to enroll in courses provided by institutions that have entered into contracts with the dod to provide programs at the applicable overseas duty location.   we are not able to estimate the effect of future expected changes to dod tuition assistance programs or whether the services would impose other criteria in addition to the level of reimbursement that would impact enrollments from service members.   for fiscal 2014 we currently expect some changes to the programs, including that the air force is no longer authorizing tuition assistance for associate’s degrees if the service member already has an associate’s degree from the community college of the air force, the army has provided that service members are only eligible for tuition assistance after they complete their first year in the army after graduation from advanced individual training, the army has reduced the total benefit per service member per year from $4,500 to $4,000, and the coast guard has reduced the benefit payable to 75% of tuition costs, not to exceed $187.50 per credit hour. we are also not able to estimate the response that our competitors would take to reduced dod tuition assistance payments or the willingness of service members to use their top-up option or other va education benefits.  in this regard, our competitors, particularly those with larger student populations or a smaller concentration of students from the military, may be better situated to lower the cost of tuition to service members. if we are no longer able to receive funds from dod tuition assistance programs or those programs are reduced, eliminated, or temporarily suspended our enrollments and revenues could be significantly reduced, which would result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on third party vendors whose service and responsiveness may be less than ours and whose compliance practices may increase our operational and compliance risk. we rely on third party vendors to provide certain services to us and our students. while we monitor and assess the service of these vendors, it is possible the quality of their service and the timeliness of their responses may be less than the service and responsiveness that we would provide ourselves. these vendors may lack adequate business continuity planning. using third party vendors increases compliance risk if they do not adequately protect personal information regarding our students and their families, or if they do not comply with applicable federal or state regulations applicable to our business. in the event of any of those or related actions or omissions by third party vendors, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.       32     we have encountered ongoing problems related to the software and services of a third-party vendor that we use to assist with our financial aid processing, which could result in adverse regulatory actions and reputational problems and negatively affect our operating results. in the beginning of the third quarter, apus transitioned from using the services of a third party to assist us with the administration and management of apus’s participation in title iv programs to utilizing an internal solution that relies, in part, on software and services provided by a third-party vendor. we experienced unexpected delays in financial aid processing as a result of various software and programming errors and limitations, resulting in ed rejecting certain student records, an inability to disburse title iv program funds to some students and other related matters. while we had anticipated that in connection with the transition there would be a delay in processing financial aid that was anticipated to last a short period of time, the delays were longer than expected and there were greater errors than expected. in addition, when the decision was made to move financial aid processing in-house using software supplied by a third party vendor, we anticipated being able to automate certain manual processes.  errors in the software, as well as lack of experience with the software by many of our financial aid staff, required manual work outside the system, increasing the time to process financial aid. we are working with the vendor to identify the causes of the continuing delays, errors and problems. many have been resolved, but some remain, and we will still have manual work outside the automated system to process our financial aid applicants until the software can be enhanced and we do not have an estimate as to when that will happen. we have described some of the relevant regulatory risks of this situation under the heading “risks related to the regulation of our industry” below. in addition to regulatory problems, these challenges with the processing of financial aid have led to, and could lead to further, reputational problems and adverse effects on our operating results, including as a result of reduced course enrollments and increased costs associated with our efforts to resolve the situation. as part of our business strategy, we have entered into and may enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions that may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. on november 1, 2013, we completed our acquisition of national education seminars, inc., operating as hondros college, nursing programs, or hcon. we may seek to enter into additional business combinations or acquisitions in the future. acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including: •       difficulties in consolidating operations and in integrating information technology and other systems, as well as the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; •       distraction of management’s attention from normal business operations during the integration process; •       inability to obtain, or delay in obtaining, approval of the acquisition from the necessary regulatory agencies, or the imposition of operating restrictions or a letter of credit requirement on us or on the acquired school; •       expenses associated with the integration efforts; and •       unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, including legal contingencies. any inability to integrate completed acquisitions in an efficient and timely manner, including the hcon acquisition, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, our acquisition of an educational institution could be considered a change in ownership and control of the acquired institution under applicable regulatory standards, as in the hcon acquisition. for such an acquisition, we may need approval from ed, applicable state agencies and accrediting agencies, and possibly other regulatory bodies. our inability to obtain such approvals with respect to a completed acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are not successful in completing acquisitions, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without a productive result. in addition, future acquisitions could require use of substantial portions of our available cash, as in the hcon acquisition, or dilutive issuances of securities. strong competition in the postsecondary education market generally could decrease our market share and increase our cost of acquiring students.     33     within the postsecondary education market, we compete primarily with not-for-profit public and private two-year and four-year colleges as well as other for-profit schools, particularly those that offer online learning programs. public institutions receive substantial government subsidies, and public and private, not-for-profit institutions have access to government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions, and other financial resources generally not available to for-profit schools. these institutions may have instructional and support resources that are superior to those of our institutions and other for-profit schools. some of our competitors also have substantially greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we have, which may enable them to compete more effectively for potential students. these institutions are increasingly differentiating themselves in the way that they deliver online course offerings, and we believe that in the future students seeking online instruction will be attracted to an institution in part because of the technology used by the institution to deliver instruction and other elements of the student experience. to compete for these students will require continued innovations and our people and technology platforms may not be capable of delivering competitive solutions that are desirable to students.  in recent years, these institutions and others have also started providing non-traditional, credit-bearing and non-credit-bearing education programs, including massively open online courses, or moocs, without charge or at low costs. we have also observed an increase in institutions offering competency-based programs, which permit students to learn at their own pace and progress in a program by demonstrating that they have achieved certain skills or knowledge rather than by earning credit hours, and in 2013, ed issued guidance addressing access to title iv programs for students in these programs.  we believe that we will continue to face new competition from such programs. we may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and may face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business or results of operations. these competitive factors could cause our enrollments, revenues and profitability to decrease significantly. within the postsecondary education market generally, we anticipate increased competition. the total postsecondary student population has recently declined, with the share of students attending for-profit schools having been disproportionately affected. according to the national student clearinghouse, enrollment in title iv postsecondary degree-granting institutions in spring 2013 decreased 2.3%, compared to spring 2012, with the largest decrease of 8.7% taking place among four-year for-profit schools. longer term projections suggest that previous growth in enrollment in degree-granting, postsecondary institutions is slowing. according to a january 2013 report from ed, such enrollment was projected to grow 15% over the 10-year period ending in fall of 2021 compared to 32% growth over the10-year period that ended in fall of 2011. the same report indicates that the number of high school graduates is projected to grow less than 1% over the 10-year period ending in fall of 2021 compared to 17% growth over the 10-year period that ended in the fall of 2011. the combination of reduced growth or declines in the postsecondary student population and increased capacity in the postsecondary education market will further intensify competition. we also anticipate increased competition within the military market, which continues to be the primary market for apus. although we have focused on serving the military community since our founding as a distance learning graduate-level institution for military officers seeking an advanced degree in military studies, we believe that apus will continue to see expanded competition in the military community from for-profit schools as those schools seek to attract students eligible for dod tuition assistance programs, va education benefits, or both, to comply with a regulatory requirement of ed known as the 90/10 rule. this regulatory requirement is described more fully above in “regulation of our business - federal support and regulation of postsecondary education - department of education - regulation of title iv financial aid programs - the “90/10 rule.” public and private, not-for-profit institutions are also providing increased competition, including commitments to participate in the va yellow ribbon program, through which such institutions agree to make additional financial aid funds available to veterans receiving post-9/11 gi bill benefits.   if we are unable to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs and specializations on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner, our future growth may be impaired. the updates and expansions of our existing programs and the development of new programs and specializations may not be accepted by existing or prospective students or employers. if we cannot respond to changes in market requirements, our business may be adversely affected. even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as students require or as quickly as our competitors introduce competing programs. to offer a new academic program, we may be required to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. if we are unable to respond adequately to changes in market requirements due to financial constraints, regulatory limitations, or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and our financial results could suffer.   establishing new academic programs or modifying existing programs requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses, and reallocate other resources. we may have limited experience providing courses in new fields of study and may need to modify our systems and strategy or enter into arrangements with other institutions to provide new programs effectively and profitably. if we are unable to increase the number of students enrolling in new academic programs, offer programs in a cost-effective manner, or otherwise manage effectively the operations of those programs, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.     34     we have no experience operating physical campuses where students attend class and otherwise participate in educational activities. having students physically present on such campuses may result in threats to student safety and other issues with which we have no experience.   prior to the hcon acquisition, we were a provider of exclusively online postsecondary education. as a result of the hcon acquisition, we now manage and monitor on-the-ground operations associated at four physical campuses where hcon students attend classes and receive instruction. the presence of students on physical campuses requires us to consider and respond to issues related to student safety, security, and violence. we have no experience with these or other issues that may arise in connection with on-the-ground operations on physical campuses. failure to prevent, or adequately respond to, threats to student and employee safety or other problems could harm our reputation, causing enrollment and revenues to decline.   in connection with our operation of physical campuses, we face new regulatory requirements with which we have no experience. we must comply with the campus safety and security reporting requirements as well as other requirements in the jeanne clery disclosure of campus security policy and campus crime statistics act, or clery act, including recent changes made to the clery act made by the violence against women reauthorization act of 2013, or vawa. ed has convened a negotiated rulemaking committee to address implementation of the changes made by vawa to the campus safety and security reporting requirements in the hea. the vawa  negotiated rulemaking committee met january 13-14, 2014 and is scheduled to meet february 24-25 and march 31-april 1, 2014. failure to comply with clery act requirements or regulations promulgated by ed following the negotiated rulemaking process could result in action by ed to fine us or to limit or suspend our participation in title iv programs.   if we are unable to pursue successfully hcon program initiatives and expansions, including opening new hcon campuses and increasing online education, our future growth may be impaired. the success of the hcon acquisition will depend on our ability to maintain and increase student enrollments in hcon’s programs and to grow hcon’s on-campus and online program offerings. as part of our strategy, we intend to open new campuses for hcon. such actions require us to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals. in addition, adding new locations may require significant financial investments and human resource capabilities. if we are unable to, or suffer any delay in our ability to, obtain appropriate approvals, attract additional students to new campus locations, offer programs at new campuses in a cost-effective manner, or otherwise manage effectively the operations of newly established campuses, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. outside ohio, other states’ regulatory bodies may have regulations that apply to hcon programs. for example, a number of states may require that we obtain additional authorizations for hcon students enrolled in the online registered nurse to bachelor of science in nursing completion program to participate in practicum courses in those states, even where hcon has no other physical presence in the state. these types of provisions may make it more difficult to offer online education programs in those states. the inability to efficiently or successfully expand existing programs and pursue new program initiatives would harm our ability to grow the business and could expose us to adverse actions by state regulators.   we have limited experience in making investments in other entities, and any such investments may not result in strategic benefits for us or could expose us to other risks.   to assist us in achieving elements of our growth strategy or to further develop our business capabilities, from time to time we will consider and may pursue strategic investments and acquisitions.  these transactions could include, among other things, investments in, partnerships or joint ventures with, or the acquisition of other schools, service providers or education technology related companies, among other types of entities.  investing in another entity requires expertise in evaluating another entity’s business and identifying strategic benefits of a potential investment in such entity, among other expertise.  these types of investments involve significant challenges and risks, including that the investment does not advance our business strategy, that it has an adverse effect on our results of operations, that we do not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, that we acquire unknown liabilities, or that management’s attention is diverted from our core business. these events could harm our operating results or financial condition.  any investments in other entities may also subject us to the operating and financial risks of such entities, and we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of such entities.   since 2012, we have made minority investments in entities in which we do not have sole control, which present risks in addition to those that apply to other investments or acquisitions. these investments include our $6.8 equity investment and a $6.0 million debt investment in a holding company that acquired and now operates new horizons worldwide, inc., or new horizons, and our $4.0 million investment in preferred stock of fidelis education, inc., or fidelis education. although we have the right to representation on the board of directors of the holding company of new horizons and the board of directors of fidelis education, we do not have the ability to control the policies, management or affairs of these entities, and generally we would not have that ability in any minority investment in an entity. the interests of persons who control the entities in which we have and may invest may differ from our interests, and they may cause such entities to take actions that are not in our best interest, and we may become involved in disputes with such persons.  our inability to control entities in which we make minority investments could negatively affect our ability to realize the strategic benefits of those investments.     35     we have made minority investments to realize strategic benefits for our business, rather than to generate income or capital gains from these investments, and we anticipate that we would make future minority investments for similar purposes. we cannot assure that we will realize any strategic benefits from these investments in the near-term or at all. to the extent that the strategic benefits of any investment are not timely realized, or the investment otherwise underperforms, we may wish to dispose of the investment. because our interests in entities in which we have made minority investments, such as new horizons and fidelis education, are highly illiquid and not traded in any public market, we may not be able to timely dispose of these interests or at all.  our inability to dispose of our interest in such an entity could negatively affect our operating results. if we do not have adequate continued personal referrals and marketing and advertising programs that are effective in developing awareness among, attracting and retaining new students, our financial performance in the future would suffer.   building awareness of our institutions and the programs we offer among potential students is critical to our ability to attract new students. in order to maintain and increase our revenues and profits, we must continue to attract new students in a cost-effective manner and these students must remain active in our programs.  in addition, because we experience declines in our student population as a result of graduation, transfers to other academic institutions, military deployments and other reasons, in order to grow we need to first attract sufficient students to replace those that have left.  our marketing strategy for apus has traditionally focused on building long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with organizations and individuals in the military and public safety communities. in recent years we have supplemented our relationship-based marketing with multi-faceted interactive marketing campaigns to create a greater brand awareness, particularly of our apu brand outside the military and public safety communities, and to increase inquiries from potential students. similarly, hcon’s marketing strategy has focused on building long-term relationships with businesses, organizations and individuals in the healthcare community. we believe this strategy will continue to generate a significant number of personal referrals. in addition, hcon utilizes traditional media as well as internet-focused marketing channels, including organic search, local display advertising and pay-per-click. some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully advertising and marketing our programs and from successfully enrolling and retaining students in our programs include: •       the emergence of more, and more successful, competitors; •       factors related to our marketing, including the costs of internet advertising and multi-faceted interactive marketing campaigns; •       limits on our ability to attract and retain effective employees because of the incentive payment rule, as described more fully below in “risks related to the regulation of our industry”; •       performance problems with our online systems; •       our institutions’ failure to maintain accreditation, state authorization, eligibility for title iv programs, or other approvals; •       increased regulation of online education, including in states in which we do not have a physical presence; •       regulatory investigations or litigation that may damage our reputation; •       student dissatisfaction with our institutions’ services and programs; •       failure to develop a message or image for apus that resonates well with civilian students; •       a dilution of our brand as a result of the hcon acquisition or other expansion; •       adverse publicity regarding us, our competitors, or online or for-profit education generally; •       adverse developments in our relationships with military officers and other leaders in the military community; •       inability to integrate the hcon acquisition in an efficient and timely manner; •       a decline in the acceptance of online education generally; and •       a decrease in the perceived or actual economic benefits that students derive from our programs or programs provided by for-profit schools generally.    36     to continue to grow and diversify the student body of apus, we will need to identify marketing channels that support that growth and diversification while also attracting students who perform well at apus upon enrollment. however, because  our tuition is generally lower than most of our competitors, we have fewer dollars available to spend on marketing and advertising than they do.  accordingly, we may find it increasingly difficult to continue to compete and grow and diversify our enrollments at apus. if we are unable to continue to develop awareness of our institutions and the programs we offer, and to enroll and retain students in military and non-military markets, our enrollments would suffer and our ability to increase revenues and maintain profitability would be significantly impaired. the success of the hcon acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and increase student enrollments in hcon’s programs. although hcon’s marketing personnel joined us in connection with the acquisition, prior to the acquisition, we had no experience with attracting new students to and retaining students in educational programs offered primarily on physical campuses. if we are unable to retain hcon’s marketing personnel and to develop our expertise in marketing such programs, we may not be able to successfully execute our long-term strategic plan to diversity our business and expand our programs, which would negatively affect our operating results. system disruptions and security breaches to our online computer networks or to our online classroom infrastructure could negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and damage our reputation, limiting our ability to attract and retain students.   the performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain students. any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could result in the unavailability of our online classrooms, which is particularly relevant to apus, damaging our ability to generate revenue. our technology infrastructure could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist activities, and telecommunications failures.   our systems at apus, particularly those proprietary information systems and processes that we refer to as partnership at a distance™, or pad, have been predominantly developed in-house, with limited support from outside vendors. to the extent that we have utilized third-party vendors to provide certain software products for our systems, we have generally needed to integrate those products into, and ensure that they function with pad.  we are continuously working on upgrades to pad, and our employees continue to devote substantial time to its development and to the integration of third-party products into, and the functionality of those products with pad. to the extent that we face problems with pad, we may not have the capacity to address the problems with our internal capability, and we may not be able to identify outside contractors with expertise relevant to our custom system.   any failure of our online classroom systems could also prevent students from accessing their courses. any interruption to our technology infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain students and could require us to incur additional expenses to correct or mitigate the interruption.   our computer networks may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems. a user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or personal information about our students, or could cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. as a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. we engage multiple security assessment providers on a periodic basis to review and assess our security. we utilize this information to audit ourselves to ensure that we are continually monitoring the security of our technology infrastructure. however, we cannot assure you that these security assessments and audits will protect our computer networks against the threat of security breaches.   the personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations.   37     possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. our institutions collect, use, and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our students and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data and credit card numbers. we also collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. in addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. we cannot guarantee that a breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur. a violation of any laws or regulations relating to the collection or use of personal information could result in the imposition of fines against us or lawsuits brought against us. as a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. a breach, theft, or loss of personal information regarding our students and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in liability under state and federal privacy statutes and legal actions by state attorneys general and private litigants, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of any key member of our management team may impair our ability to operate effectively and may harm our business.   our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. the loss of one or more members of our management team could harm our business. while we have employment agreements with each of our executive vice presidents and our president and chief executive officer, dr. boston, we do not have employment agreements with any of our other executives or key personnel, and the employment agreements that we do have do not prevent our executives from voluntarily ceasing to work for us.   if we are unable to attract and retain management, faculty, administrators and skilled personnel, our business and growth prospects could be severely harmed.   to execute our growth strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified management, faculty, administrators, and skilled personnel. competition for hiring these individuals is intense, especially with regard to faculty in specialized areas, or executives with relevant industry expertise.  our growth places constant demands on us to find qualified individuals across all levels of our institution, and we believe that we need to continue to expand and strengthen our management team to support our operations.  if we fail to attract new management, faculty, administrators, or skilled personnel or fail to retain and motivate our existing management, faculty, administrators, and skilled personnel, our business and growth prospects could be severely harmed. ed’s incentive payment rule may also affect the manner in which we attract, retain, and motivate new and existing employees, as described more fully below in “risks related to the regulation of our industry.” if we fail to maintain adequate systems and processes to detect and prevent fraudulent activity in student enrollment and financial aid, we may lose our ability to participate in title iv programs or department of defense tuition assistance programs or have our participation in these programs conditioned or limited. institutions offering online education, including us, have experienced fraudulent activity related to title iv program funds. grants and loans to students under title iv programs are primarily awarded on the basis of financial need, generally defined as the difference between the cost of attending an institution and the amount a student can be expected to contribute to that cost. in order to account for living expenses and other costs that our students may reasonably incur in the context of pursuing a degree or certificate, the cost of attending each of our institutions is an amount that exceeds the cost of its tuition.  while some students elect to receive grants and loans that cover only the cost of tuition, others elect to receive amounts up to the full cost of attendance.  when one of our institutions receives title iv program funds on a student’s behalf, it credits those funds to the student’s account.  if a student has elected to receive funds in excess of the cost of tuition and fees, a credit balance occurs, and the institution must pay that credit balance to the student unless the student has authorized the institution to hold the credit balance or take other permissible action with respect to the credit balance. the availability of title iv program funds, including any credit balance payment, is an important part of enabling some students to pursue a degree or certificate.  however, some individuals seek to take advantage of title iv programs by enrolling for the purpose of obtaining funds they may receive directly through a credit balance payment.  on september 26, 2011, ed’s inspector general released a report about an increasing number of cases involving large, loosely affiliated groups of individuals, so-called “fraud rings”, who conspire to defraud title iv programs through enrollment in distance education programs. these fraud rings take advantage of the availability of credit balance payments under title iv.   38     we have been the target of fraudulent activity related to title iv program funds, as well as other fraudulent activities, and as we continue to grow we may be susceptible to an increased risk of such activities. the potential for outside parties to perpetrate fraud in connection with the award and disbursement of title iv program funds at apus, including as a result of identity theft, may be heightened due to its being an exclusively online education provider and its relatively low tuition. we must maintain systems and processes to identify and prevent fraudulent applications for enrollment and financial aid.  we cannot be certain that our systems and processes will continue to be adequate in the face of increasingly sophisticated fraud schemes or that we will be able to expand such systems and processes at a pace consistent with our growth.   ed requires institutions that participate in title iv programs to refer to the ed office of the inspector general, or oig, credible information about fraud or other illegal conduct involving title iv programs, and in the past we have referred to the oig information with respect to potential fraud by applicants. if the systems and processes that we have established to detect and prevent fraud are inadequate, ed may find that we do not satisfy its “administrative capability” requirements. if we fail to satisfy the “administrative capability” requirements, ed may require the repayment of federal student financial aid funds, transfer us from the “advance” system of payment of title iv program funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment, place us on provisional certification status, or commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend, or terminate our participation in title iv programs, which would limit our potential for growth outside the military sector and adversely affect our enrollment, revenues, and results of operations.  in addition, our ability to participate in title iv programs and dod tuition assistance programs is conditioned on our maintaining accreditation by an accrediting agency that is recognized by the secretary of education. the significance of our accreditation is described more fully above in “regulation of our business - accreditation.” any significant failure to detect adequately fraudulent activity related to student enrollment and financial aid could cause us to fail to meet our accrediting agencies’ standards. furthermore, under the higher education opportunity act, or heoa, accrediting agencies that evaluate institutions offering online programs like ours must require such institutions to have processes through which the institution establishes that a student who registers for such a program is the same student who participates in and receives credit for the program. failure to meet our accrediting agencies’ standards could result in the loss of accreditation of one or more of our institutions, which could result in a loss of eligibility to participate in title iv programs, dod tuition assistance programs, or both. our limited ability to obtain exclusive proprietary rights and protect our intellectual property, as well as disputes we may encounter from time to time with third parties regarding our use of their intellectual property, could harm our operations and prospects.   in the ordinary course of our business, we develop intellectual property of many kinds that is or will be the subject of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, domain names, agreements, and other registrations. we have secured rights to trademarks for various names and terms used in our business, own rights to more than 200 internet domain names pertaining to apus, amu, apu, hcon and other unique descriptors, have been issued a patent for pad, and are pursuing patents on several innovations that we believe enhance and support student’s academic achievement and streamline university operations. we rely on agreements under which we obtain rights to use course content developed by faculty members and other third party content experts. we cannot assure you that these measures, or any measures that we take, will be adequate or that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the united states or select foreign jurisdictions, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. despite our efforts to protect these rights, third parties may attempt to develop competing programs or copy aspects of our curriculum, online resource material, quality management, and other proprietary content. any such attempt, if successful, could adversely affect our business. protecting these types of intellectual property rights can be difficult, particularly as it relates to the development by our competitors of competing courses and programs.   we may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party.  in july 2006, we settled a dispute with another institution regarding the use of certain marks that allowed us to continue to use the marks at issue, but we may not be able to favorably resolve future disputes. some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid disputes regarding those intellectual property rights. any such dispute could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether that dispute has merit. our general liability and cyber liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our classes or pay monetary damages, which may be significant. we may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of class materials posted online for class discussions.     39     in some instances, our faculty members or our students may post various articles or other third-party content online in class discussion boards or in other venues. the laws governing the fair use of these third-party materials are imprecise and adjudicated on a case-by-case basis, which makes it challenging to adopt and implement appropriately balanced institutional policies governing these practices. we may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of this material posted online. third parties may raise claims against us for the unauthorized duplication of this material. any such claims could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether the claims have merit. our faculty members or students could also post classified material on class discussion boards, which could expose us to civil and criminal liability and harm our reputation and relationships with members of the military and government. our general liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our courses or pay monetary damages.   legal proceedings, particularly class action lawsuits, may require human and financial resources, distract our management and negatively affect our reputation and operating results. from time to time, we have been and may be involved in various legal proceedings. in recent years, we have observed an increase in litigation brought against for-profit schools, including class actions brought by students and prospective students based on alleged misrepresentations about a school’s programs, and an increase in “qui tam” lawsuits, which are described below in the first risk factor under the heading “risks related to the regulation of our industry.” as described more fully below in item 3 of this annual report, in november 2013, a putative class action was filed against hondros college, inc. and john g. hondros, who is a member of the board of directors of hcon. the allegations made in the complaint, which relate to hcon’s operations and not the operations of the entity named in the lawsuit, include the alleged provision of false or misleading information about the accreditation of certain hcon programs to students who enrolled in those programs during certain time periods. although we do not believe, based on currently available information, that the outcome of this proceeding, if adverse to hcon, would have a material adverse effect on our condition, class actions and other lawsuits require us to devote substantial resources and time to defending them and may lead to reputational problems. the significant human and financial resources required to investigate and respond to claims brought in any litigation may distract management’s attention from operating our business and, as a result, negatively affect our operating results. because apus provides exclusively online education, we are dependent on continued growth and acceptance of exclusively online education and, if the recognition by students and employers of the value of online education does not continue to grow, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted.   we believe that continued growth in online education will be largely dependent on additional students and employers recognizing the value of degrees earned online. increasingly, employers demand that, in addition to technical or substantive skills, their new employees possess appropriate “soft” skills, such as communication, critical thinking and teamwork skills, which can evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment and may be, or may be perceived to be, more difficult to develop through online education.  if students and employers are not convinced that online institutions are an acceptable alternative to traditional schools or that an online education provides value, or if growth in the market penetration of online education slows, growth in the industry and at apus could be adversely affected. because our business model for apus is based on exclusively online education, if the acceptance of online education does not grow, our ability to continue to grow our business and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the dod’s proposed memorandum of understanding, which institutions will be required to sign at some point after publication in order to participate in dod tuition assistance programs, includes terms and conditions that would impose extensive new regulatory requirements on us with respect to participation in the tuition assistance programs. under a dod final rule, effective january 7, 2013, each institution participating in dod tuition assistance programs is required to sign a memorandum of understanding, or mou, outlining certain commitments and agreements between the institution and dod prior to accepting funds from dod tuition assistance programs. apus participates in dod tuition assistance programs under the mou originally circulated by dod on march 15, 2011. for more information, see “regulation of our business - federal support and regulation of postsecondary education - department of defense.” on august 14, 2013, dod issued a proposed rule with a revised mou. dod has indicated that when the rule is finalized, institutions will be required to sign the revised mou in order to participate in dod tuition assistance programs. the revised mou includes several proposed changes that would require, for example, participating institutions to provide meaningful information to students about the financial cost of attendance, provide academic and student support services, offer service members loan counseling before private student loans are offered, and comply with title iv program integrity rules, including rules related to incentive payment, misrepresentation, and state authorization.  we cannot predict the requirements dod will include in the final mou, how dod will enforce these requirements or what type of intermediate sanctions, if any, will be implemented before an institution loses eligibility to participate in dod tuition assistance programs. the revised mou also provides that an institution may only participate in dod tuition assistance programs if it is accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by ed, approved for va funding, and a participant in title iv programs. if we fail to comply with the requirements of the mou when the rule is finalized, we will not be able to participate in dod tuition assistance programs.   40     if we do not maintain continued strong relationships with various military bases and educational service officers, and if we are unable to expand our use of articulation agreements, our future growth may be impaired.   apus has non-exclusive articulation agreements or memoranda of understanding with various educational institutions of the united states armed forces and other governmental education programs. articulation agreements and memoranda of understanding are agreements pursuant to which we agree to award academic credits toward our degrees for learning in educational programs offered by others. additionally, we rely on relationships with educational service offices on military bases and base education officers to distribute information about apus to interested service members. if our relationships with educational service offices or base education counselors deteriorate or end, our efforts to recruit students from that base will be impaired. if our articulation agreements and memoranda of understanding are eliminated, or if our relationships with educational service offices or base education counselors deteriorate, this could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.   furthermore, the requirements to enter into an mou and the related increased focus by the dod on relationships and oversight of educational providers could lead to changes in the nature of our relationships with military bases and educational service officers, which could be adverse in nature. natural disasters or other extraordinary events may cause us to close one or more of hcon’s campuses.   hcon may experience business interruptions resulting from natural disasters, inclement weather, transit disruptions or other events in one or more of the cities in ohio in which it operates. these events could cause hcon to close campuses - temporarily or permanently - and could affect student recruiting opportunities in those locations, causing enrollment and revenues to decline. risks related to the regulation of our industry if we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could face penalties and significant restrictions on our operations, including loss of access to dod tuition assistance programs and federal loans and grants for our students.   we are subject to extensive regulation by (1) accrediting agencies recognized by the u.s. secretary of education, (2) state regulatory bodies, and (3) the federal government, through ed. because we participate in dod tuition assistance and va education benefits programs administered by dod and the va, respectively, we are also subject to oversight by those agencies. the regulations, standards, and policies of these organizations cover the vast majority of our operations, including our educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations, and financial condition. these regulatory requirements can also affect our ability to acquire new schools, to open new locations, to add new or expand existing educational programs, to change our corporate structure or ownership, and to make other substantive changes. these requirements can also increase the cost of our operations.    findings of noncompliance with these laws, regulations, standards, and policies could result in any of the relevant regulatory agencies taking action including: imposing monetary fines, penalties, or injunctions; limiting our operations, including restricting our ability to offer new programs of study or to open new locations, or imposing limits on our growth; limiting or terminating our ability to grant degrees; restricting or revoking our accreditation, licensure, or other approval to operate; limiting, suspending, or terminating our eligibility to participate in title iv, dod tuition assistance, or other financial aid programs by requiring us to repay funds, post a letter of credit, become subject to payment methods for title iv programs that are not the advance payment system; subjecting us to civil or criminal penalties; or other censure that could have a material adverse effect on our business. the regulations, standards, and policies of ed, state regulatory bodies, and our accrediting agencies change frequently and are subject to interpretive ambiguities, particularly where they are written for institutions that offer on-campus instruction rather than online institutions, such as apus. recent and pending changes in, or new interpretations of, applicable laws, regulations, standards, or policies, or our noncompliance with any applicable laws, regulations, standards, or policies, could have a material adverse effect on our accreditation, authorization to operate in various states, permissible activities, receipt of funds under dod tuition assistance programs, our ability to participate in title iv programs, our ability to participate in va education benefit programs, or costs of doing business. we cannot predict with certainty how all of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether we will be able to comply, or will be deemed by others to have complied, with all of the requirements. in the following paragraphs, we have described some of the more significant risks related to the ability of our institutions to comply with the regulations, standards, and policies of ed, state regulatory bodies, and our accrediting agencies.   41     in addition, in some circumstances of noncompliance or alleged noncompliance, we may be subject to “qui tam” lawsuits under the federal false claims act or various, similar, state false claim statutes. in federal false claims act actions, private plaintiffs seek to enforce remedies under the federal false claims act on behalf of the u.s. and, if successful, are entitled to recover their costs and to receive a portion of any amounts recovered by the u.s. in the lawsuit. a similar process applies to state false claim statutes. these lawsuits can be prosecuted by a private plaintiff in respect of some action taken by us, even if ed or other regulatory body does not agree with plaintiff’s theory of liability, or the government can intervene and become a party to the lawsuit. qui tam lawsuits have the potential to generate very significant damages linked to our receipt of title iv funding over a period of several years.    if we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation, we would lose our ability to participate in dod tuition assistance programs and also to participate in title iv programs.   as described more fully above in “business - accreditation” and “regulation of our business - accreditation,” each of our institutions is accredited by an institutional accrediting agency recognized by the secretary of education. accreditation by an accrediting agency that is recognized by the secretary of education is required for participation in dod tuition assistance programs and for an institution to become and remain eligible to participate in title iv programs. apus participates in dod tuition assistance programs and title iv programs, and hcon participates in title iv programs. our accrediting agencies may impose restrictions on our institutions’ accreditation or may terminate their accreditation. to remain accredited apus and hcon must continuously meet certain criteria and standards relating to, among other things, performance, governance, institutional integrity, educational quality, faculty, administrative capability, resources, and financial stability. failure to meet any of these criteria or standards could result in the loss of accreditation at the discretion of the accrediting agencies. the complete loss of accreditation would, among other things, render our students and us ineligible to participate in dod tuition assistance programs or title iv programs and have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues, and results of operations. our student enrollments could decline if we fail to maintain any of our accreditations.   institutional accreditation is an important attribute of apus and hcon. colleges and universities depend, in part, on accreditation in evaluating transfers of credit and applications to graduate schools; some institutions will accept transfer credit only from regionally accredited institutions. employers rely on the accredited status of institutions when evaluating a candidate’s credentials, and students, corporations, and government sponsors under tuition reimbursement programs look to accreditation for assurance that an institution maintains quality educational standards. failure to maintain our institutional accreditation would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues, and results of operations. in addition, certain of our individual programs are accredited by specialized accrediting agencies or recognized by professional organizations.   if we fail to satisfy the standards of these specialized accrediting agencies and professional organizations, we could lose the specialized accreditation or professional recognition for the affected programs, which could result in materially reduced student enrollments in those programs and have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, in certain cases, professional licensure will not be granted if an applicant for licensure earned the relevant educational credential from an institution or educational program that lacks specialized accreditation. failure to obtain or maintain specialized accreditation or professional recognition for certain programs could result in materially reduced student enrollments in affected programs and have a material adverse effect on us. increased scrutiny of accrediting agencies by the secretary of education and the u.s. congress may result in increased scrutiny of institutions, particularly for-profit institutions, by accrediting agencies, and if either of our institutions’ accrediting agency loses its ability to serve as an accrediting agency for title iv program purposes, that institution may lose its ability to participate in title iv programs. in december 2009, the ed office of the inspector general, or oig, recommended that ed consider limiting, suspending, or terminating hlc’s recognition as an accreditor for purposes of determining institutional eligibility to participate in title iv programs. hlc received additional scrutiny in june 2010 during a house education and labor committee hearing focused on oig’s findings with regard to credit hour policies. in december 2010, the national advisory committee on institutional quality and integrity, or naciqi, the panel charged with advising ed on whether to recognize accrediting agencies for title iv purposes, reviewed hlc’s status as a recognized accrediting agency. at that time, naciqi voted to continue hlc’s recognition as an accrediting agency but also ordered the agency to submit an additional compliance report in one year. at its december 2011 meeting, naciqi characterized hlc’s report as “informational” and noted that no vote was to be taken on it. in june 2013, naciqi voted to continue hlc’s recognition as an accrediting agency for up to twelve months.  before naciqi reaches a final decision on hlc’s petition for renewal of recognition, hlc must demonstrate that it has implemented its new standards and policies that were effective january 2013 and must submit to naciqi a compliance report to that effect. naciqi is next scheduled to review hlc for recognition purposes in the spring of 2014. we cannot predict the outcome of naciqi’s review of hlc’s recognition.   42     in june 2011, naciqi reviewed acics’s status as a recognized accrediting agency. at that time, naciqi voted to continue acics’s recognition as an accrediting agency but also ordered the agency to bring itself into compliance and submit within one year a report demonstrating its efforts to address concerns related to, among other things, the agency’s experience in accrediting doctoral programs, the composition of its review teams and decision-making bodies, access to institutional files, and review and monitoring of student achievement and reporting of the results to the institution. in june 2013, upon review of the compliance report submitted by acics, naciqi voted to renew acics’s recognition for a period of three years. if ed ceased to recognize one of our institutional accrediting agencies for any reason, the institution accredited by that agency would not be eligible to participate in title iv programs unless the institution was accredited by another accrediting agency recognized by ed or ed continued to certify the eligibility of the institution to participate in title iv programs. ed may continue to certify an institution for a period no longer than 18 months after the date such recognition ceased. the ineligibility of our institutions to participate in title iv programs would have a material adverse effect on enrollments, revenues, and results of operations. in addition, increased scrutiny of accrediting agencies by the secretary of education in connection with ed’s recognition process may result in increased scrutiny of institutions by accrediting agencies. national or regional accreditation agencies may prescribe more rigorous accreditation standards on our schools, which could have a material adverse effect on our student enrollment, revenues and cash flows. the accreditation standards of the national or regional accreditation agencies that accredit our schools can and do vary, and the accreditation agencies may prescribe more rigorous standards than are currently in place. complying with more rigorous accreditation standards could require significant changes to the way we operate our business and increase our administrative and other costs. no assurances can be given that our schools will be able to comply with more rigorous accreditation standards in a timely manner or at all. if one of our schools does not meet its accreditation requirements, its accreditation could be limited, modified, suspended or terminated. failure to maintain accreditation would make such school ineligible to participate in dod tuition assistance or title iv programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our student enrollment and revenues. because of rapid growth in, and increased scrutiny of the for-profit education sector, accrediting bodies may adopt new or revised criteria, standards, and policies that are intended to monitor, regulate, or limit the growth of for-profit institutions like us. for example, in june 2009, hlc adopted new policies related to institutional control, structure, and organization. the policies extend hlc’s oversight to transactions that change, or have the potential to change, the control of an institution or its fundamental structure and organization. under the policies, hlc also now extends its oversight to defined changes that occur in a parent or controlling entity, and not necessarily in the institution itself. actions by, or relating to, an accredited institution, including a significant acquisition of another institution, significant changes in board composition or organizational documents, and accumulations by one stockholder of greater than 25% of the capital stock, could result in additional reviews by hlc and possible change from an accredited status to candidate status, which enhances the risks associated with these types of actions. in particular, the change from accredited status to candidate status could adversely impact an institution’s ability to participate in title iv programs. for-profit institutions may also be less attractive acquisition candidates because hlc has enhanced its scrutiny of change in control transactions, obtained the explicit ability to move an institution from accredited status to candidate status, and will be examining more closely entities that own accredited institutions. beginning in 2012, acics, the accrediting agency for hcon, established compliance standards to measure student retention, graduate placement and licensure passage rates. in the event that a campus or program offered by a campus fails to meet the minimum compliance standard for two consecutive years after notice from acics and does not satisfy the requirement for a waiver, acics may withdraw accreditation from the campus or program. the compliance standards for retention and graduate placement increased substantially from 2012 to 2013. if one of the hcon campuses failed to meet the compliance standard for either student retention or graduate placement for two consecutive years after the date of notice of noncompliance, enrollment in such program could decline, which could have a material adverse impact on student enrollment, revenues and cash flows at that school. if we fail to maintain state authorization in the states where we are physically located, we would lose our ability to grant degrees and other credentials in that state and to participate in title iv programs. to participate in title iv programs, an institution must be legally authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is physically located. see “regulation of our business - state licensure/authorization” in part i, item 1 of this report. loss of state authorization by one of our institutions in the state in which it is physically located would cause that institution to be ineligible to participate in title iv programs and to lose its ability to grant credentials, as described in the following paragraphs.   43     apus is physically headquartered in the state of west virginia and is currently authorized to offer its programs by the west virginia higher education policy commission, or wvhepc, the regulatory agency governing postsecondary education in the state of west virginia. such authorization may be lost or withdrawn if apus fails to comply with material requirements under west virginia statutes and rules for continued authorization. under current law, if apus were to lose its regional accreditation by hlc, wvhepc may suspend, withdraw, or revoke apus’s authorization. in addition, in order to maintain our eligibility for accreditation by hlc, we must remain headquartered and have a substantial presence in one of the states in its region, which includes west virginia. thus, if apus were to lose its authorization from wvhepc, apus would be unable to provide educational services in west virginia, we would lose our eligibility for title iv programs, and apus would lose its hlc accreditation. hondros college is located in the state of ohio and is authorized by the ohio state board of career colleges and schools and the ohio board of regents.  such authorization may be limited, suspended, or revoked if hcon fails to submit renewal applications or other required submissions to the state in a timely manner, or if hcon fails to comply with material requirements under applicable ohio statutes and rules for continued authorization. continued state authorization is required in order to maintain acics accreditation. if hcon were to lose its authorization from the ohio state board of career colleges and schools, hcon would be unable to provide educational services in ohio, hcon would lose its eligibility for title iv programs, and hcon would lose its accreditation. if hcon were to lose its authorization from the ohio board of regents, hcon would be unable to offer the online registered nurse to bachelor of science in nursing completion program in ohio. . if hcon were to lose approval from the ohio board of nursing for the diploma in practical nursing or the associate degree in nursing, students in the program lacking approval would not be eligible to apply for  licensure by examination to practice nursing in ohio. effective july 1, 2011, ed regulations provide that a proprietary institution is considered legally authorized by a state if the state has a process to review and appropriately act on complaints concerning the institution, including enforcing applicable state laws, and the institution complies with any applicable state approval or licensure requirements consistent with the new rules. if a state in which one of our institutions is located fails to comply in the future with the provisions of that regulation, our ability to operate in that state and to participate in title iv programs could be limited or terminated. our failure to comply with regulations of various states could result in actions taken by those states that would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues, and results of operations.   various states impose regulatory requirements on educational institutions operating within their boundaries. several states assert jurisdiction over online educational institutions that have no physical location or other presence in the state but offer educational services to students who reside in the state or advertise to or recruit prospective students in the state. state regulatory requirements for online education are inconsistent among states and not well developed in many jurisdictions. as such, these requirements change frequently and, in some instances, are not clear or are left to the discretion of state regulators. for information about those jurisdictions in which apus and hcon are authorized, see “regulation of our business - state licensure/authorization - state education licensure/state authorization of our institutions” in part i, item 1 of this report. to the extent that we have obtained, or obtain in the future, additional authorizations or licensure, changes in state laws and regulations and the interpretation of those laws and regulations by the applicable regulators may limit our ability to offer educational programs and award degrees. some states may also prescribe financial regulations that are different from those of ed. if we fail to comply with state licensing or authorization requirements, we may be subject to the loss of state licensure or authorization. if we fail to comply with state requirements to obtain licensure or authorization, we may be the subject of injunctive actions or penalties.   as described in “regulation of our business - state licensure/authorization - statue authorization required by ed - state authorization of distance education” in part i, item 1 of this report, ed’s program integrity regulations provided that if an institution offered postsecondary education through distance education to students in a state, it was required to obtain any necessary approvals to do so. however, on july 12, 2011, the u.s. district court for the district of columbia upheld ed’s power to promulgate regulations on statue authorization for distance education but vacated on procedural grounds those provisions of the program integrity regulations, and on june 5, 2012, the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia affirmed the district court’s ruling. in november 2013, ed announced its intent to establish a negotiated rulemaking panel to consider regulations for, among other issues, state authorization of programs offered through distance education. negotiation sessions are scheduled for the spring of 2014.  no assurance can be given with respect to whether ed will adopt new rules on state authorization for distance education or, in the event that such regulations are adopted, our ability to comply with the new regulations. should ed adopt new rules addressing licensing requirements for distance education, and if we fail to obtain or maintain required state authorization to provide postsecondary distance education in a specific state, we could lose our ability to award title iv aid to students in that state.   44     the inability of our graduates to obtain professional licensure or other specialized outcomes in their chosen fields of study could reduce our enrollments and revenues, and potentially lead to litigation that could be costly to us. certain of our graduates seek professional licensure or other specialized outcomes in their chosen fields following graduation. their success in obtaining these outcomes depends on several factors, including, for example, the individual merits of the graduate; whether the institution and the program were approved by the state in which the graduate seeks licensure, or by a professional association; whether the program from which the student graduated meets all state requirements for professional licensure; and whether the institution or program is accredited. certain states have refused to license or certify students from particular apus programs on grounds that the program did not meet one or more of the state’s specific licensure requirements or was not approved by the state for purposes of professional licensure.   to apply for licensure to practice nursing in ohio, an applicant must have successfully completed a nursing education program that is approved by the board of nursing. regulations of the ohio board of nursing, which approves the hcon lpn and adn programs, require that a nursing education program such as the hcon lpn and adn programs must have a pas rate on the relevant nclex licensure exam that is at least ninety-five percent of the national average for first-time candidates in a calendar year.  if a program does not have such a pass rate, the program may face sanctions, including, after four consecutive years of failing to meet that standard, placement on provisional approval status. if a program on provisional approval continues to fail to meet the requirements of the board of nursing, the board of nursing may withdraw its approval of the program.   the state requirements for licensure are subject to change, as are the professional certification standards, and we may not immediately become aware of changes that may impact our students in certain instances. in the event that one or more states refuses to recognize our students for professional licensure based on factors relating to our institution or programs, the potential growth of our programs would be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we could be exposed to litigation that would force us to incur legal and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our institutions must periodically seek recertification to participate in title iv programs, and may, in certain circumstances, be subject to review by the department of education prior to seeking recertification, and our future success may be adversely affected if our institutions are unable to successfully maintain certification or obtain recertification.   an institution generally must seek recertification from ed at least every six years and possibly more frequently depending on various factors, such as whether it is provisionally certified. ed may also review an institution’s continued eligibility and certification to participate in title iv programs, or scope of eligibility and certification, in the event the institution undergoes a change in ownership resulting in a change of control or expands its activities in certain ways, such as the addition of certain types of new programs, addition of new locations, or, in certain cases, changes to the academic credentials that it offers. in certain circumstances, ed must provisionally certify an institution, such as when it is an initial participant in title iv programs or has undergone a change in ownership and control. a provisionally certified institution must apply for and receive ed approval of substantial changes and must comply with any additional conditions included in its program participation agreement. if ed determines that a provisionally certified institution is unable to meet its responsibilities under its program participation agreement, it may seek to revoke the institution’s certification to participate in title iv programs with fewer due process protections for the institution than if it were fully certified. in 2010, apus applied for recertification and, on july 2, 2010, we received a letter from ed notifying us that apus is fully recertified to participate in title iv programs through december 31, 2014. apus will be required to apply timely for recertification on order to continue to participate in the title iv programs after december 31, 2014. hcon was deemed to have undergone a change of ownership and control in november 2013, requiring review by ed in order to reestablish eligibility and continue participation in title iv programs. as described more fully in “federal support and regulation of postsecondary education - regulatory actions and restrictions on operations - change in ownership resulting in a change of control,” ed has granted hcon temporary provisional certification on a month-to-month basis until ed makes a determination on hcon’s application for approval of the change of ownership and control. until that determination, hcon operates under a temporary provisional program participation agreement, or tpppa. hcon must comply with specific conditions while it is provisionally certified.  if ed determines to approve an application after a change in ownership and control, it will issue a provisional certification extending for a period expiring not later than the end of the third complete award year following the date of provisional certification. if ed were to withdraw or not renew our institutions’ certification to participate in title iv programs, our students would no longer be able to receive title iv program funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues, and results of operations. a failure to demonstrate “administrative capability” may result in the loss of eligibility to participate in title iv programs.     45     ed regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in title iv programs and sanctions ed may impose if an institution fails to satisfy any of those criteria. to meet the administrative capability standards, an institution must, among other things, comply with all applicable title iv requirements, including with respect to the administration of title iv programs and the processing of title iv program funds. see “regulation of our business - federal support and regulation of postsecondary education - regulation of title iv financial aid programs - administrative capability.” if an institution fails to satisfy any of the administrative capability requirements, ed may require the repayment of federal student financial aid funds, transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of title iv program funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” method of payment, place the institution on provisional certification status, or commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend, or terminate the participation of the institution in title iv programs. if one of our institutions is found not to have satisfied ed’s “administrative capability” requirements, it could be limited in its access to, or lose, title iv program funding, which would limit our potential for growth and adversely affect our enrollment, revenues, and results of operations. a failure to demonstrate “financial responsibility” may result in the loss of eligibility by one of our institutions to participate in title iv programs or require the posting of a letter of credit in order to maintain eligibility to participate in title iv programs.   to participate in title iv programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by ed, or post a letter of credit in favor of ed and possibly accept other conditions, such as provisional certification, additional reporting requirements, or regulatory oversight, on its participation in title iv programs. ed may also apply such measures of financial responsibility to a parent company of an eligible institution and, if such measures are not satisfied by the parent company, require the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of ed and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in title iv programs. an obligation to post a letter of credit or to accept other conditions, such a change in our system of title iv payment from ed for purposes of disbursement, could increase our costs of regulatory compliance or affect our cash flow. if one of our institutions is found not to have satisfied ed’s “financial responsibility” requirements, it could be limited in its access to, or lose, title iv program funds, which would limit our potential for growth and adversely affect our enrollment, revenues, and results of operations. if apei, as the parent company of an eligible institution, is found not to have satisfied ed’s financial responsibility requirements, all of our institutions could be limited in their access to, or lose, title iv program funds.   if our institutions do not comply with the 90/10 rule, they will lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs. a provision of the hea requires all proprietary education institutions to comply with what is commonly referred to as the 90/10 rule, which imposes sanctions on participating institutions that derive more than 90% of their total revenue on a cash accounting basis from title iv programs as calculated under the regulations. for more information, see “regulation of our business - federal support and regulation of postsecondary education - department of education - regulation of title iv financial aid programs - the 90/10 rule.”  using the statutory formula, apus derived approximately 43% of its cash-basis revenues from these programs in 2012, and hcon derived approximately 75% of its cash-basis revenues from these programs in 2012. the 90/10 rule percentage for our institutions could increase in the future, depending on the impact of future changes in our enrollment mix, and regulatory and other factors outside our control, including any reduction in tuition assistance provided by the dod for service members and education benefits provided by the va for veterans, or changes in the treatment of such funding for purposes of the 90/10 rule calculation. currently, dod tuition assistance and va education benefits are not treated as title iv revenue under the 90/10 rule and, therefore, for apus, a majority of such funding is included in the “10%” portion of the rule calculation. a reduction in the availability of this type of funding, or a change (through either legislation or executive order) that requires that it be treated in the same manner as title iv funding under the 90/10 rule, would increase our 90/10 rule percentage. if any of our institutions violates the 90/10 rule and loses eligibility to participate in title iv programs, its ineligibility to participate in title iv programs would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues, results of operations and cash flows. our institutions’ failure to comply with the department of education’s incentive payment rule could result in sanctions.   46     if we pay a bonus, commission, or other incentive payment in violation of applicable ed rules, we could be subject to sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. as described in “regulation of our business - federal support and regulation of postsecondary education - regulation of title iv financial aid programs - incentive payment rule,” abolition of regulatory safe harbors that described permissible arrangements and other recent changes in the regulation may create uncertainty about what constitutes impermissible incentive payments. the modified incentive payment rule and related uncertainty as to how it will be interpreted also may influence our approach, or limit our alternatives, with respect to employment policies and practices and consequently may affect negatively our ability to recruit and retain employees, and as a result our business could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, the government accountability office, or gao, has issued a report critical of ed’s enforcement of the incentive payment rule, and ed has undertaken to increase its enforcement efforts. if ed determines that an institution violated the incentive payment rule, it may require the institution to modify its payment arrangements to ed’s satisfaction. ed may also fine the institution or initiate action to limit, suspend, or terminate the institution’s participation in title iv programs. ed may also seek to recover title iv funds disbursed in connection with the prohibited incentive payments. in addition, third parties may file “qui tam” or “whistleblower” suits on behalf of ed alleging violation of the incentive payment provision. such suits may prompt ed investigations, and the government may determine to intervene in the lawsuits. particularly in light of the uncertainty surrounding the modified incentive payment rule, the existence of, the costs of responding to, and the outcome of, qui tam or whistleblower suits or ed investigations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation causing our enrollments to decline and could cause us to incur costs that are material to our business, among other things. as a result, our business could be materially and adversely affected. a failure to comply with the department of education’s “gainful employment” regulations when promulgated could result in the loss of eligibility to participate in title iv programs. under the hea, proprietary schools are generally eligible to participate in title iv programs only in respect of educational programs that prepare students for “gainful employment in a recognized occupation.” historically, this concept has not been defined in detailed regulations. on october 29, 2010 and june 13, 2011, ed published final regulations on gainful employment. for more information, see “regulation of our business - federal support and regulation of postsecondary education - regulation of title iv financial aid programs - gainful employment.” in response to a legal challenge to ed’s gainful employment regulations, the u.s. district court for the district of columbia on june 30, 2012 struck down the debt measures and all other gainful employment requirements except the disclosure requirements. on march 19, 2013, the court denied ed’s motion to reinstate certain of those regulations. the disclosure requirements have increased our administrative burdens. these disclosure requirements could adversely impact student enrollment, persistence and retention if our disclosed program information compares unfavorably with disclosed information of other educational institutions. a negotiated rulemaking committee was convened by ed in september 2013 specifically on the topic of gainful employment programs. for more information about the committee’s work, see “regulation of our business - recent legislative and regulatory matters - regulatory activity - pending rulemakings.” the timing and substance of final regulations dealing with gainful employment cannot be predicted at this time. if new rules are promulgated by ed, the continuing eligibility of our educational programs for title iv funding would be at risk due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the actual or deemed income level of our graduates, changes in student borrowing levels, increases in interest rates, changes in the federal poverty income level relevant for calculating discretionary income, changes in the percentage of our former students who are current in repayment of their student loans, and other factors. the exposure to these external factors could reduce our ability to offer or continue certain types of programs for which there is market demand, and therefore would impact our ability to maintain or grow our business. we may lose eligibility to participate in title iv programs if our student loan default rates are too high, and if we lose that eligibility our future growth could be impaired. to remain eligible to participate in title iv programs, an educational institution’s federal student loan cohort default rates must remain below certain specified levels. each cohort is the group of students who first enter into student loan repayment during a federal fiscal year (ending september 30). the measurement period for the student loan cohort default rates has been increased from two to three years starting with the 2009 cohort; however both three-year and two-year cohort default rates are currently published until the transition to the three-year rate is completed in 2014. for more information, see “regulation of our business - federal support and regulation of postsecondary education - department of education - regulation of title iv financial aid programs - cohort default rates.” for the two-year requirements that are effective through the 2011 cohort default rate published in september 2013, educational institutions lose eligibility to participate in title iv programs if their two-year cohort default rate equals or exceeds 25% for three consecutive cohort years or exceeds 40% for any given year. apus’s two-year cohort default rates for federal fiscal years 2009, 2010 and 2011 are 4.0%, 6.0%, and 10.4%, respectively. hcon’s two-year cohort default rates for federal fiscal years 2009, 2010 and 2011 are 5.1%, 4.7%, and 8.2%, respectively.   47     if an institution’s three-year cohort default rate equals or exceeds 30% for any given year, it must establish a default prevention task force and develop a default prevention plan with measurable objectives for improving the cohort default rate. beginning with the three-year cohort default rate for the 2011 cohort to be published in september 2014, only three-year cohort default rates will be applied for purposes of measuring compliance. ed began publishing the official three-year cohort default rates with the publication of the 2009 cohort default rate in september 2012. educational institutions will lose eligibility to participate in title iv programs if their three-year cohort default rate exceeds 40% for any given year or is equal to or greater than 30% for three consecutive years. apus’s official three-year cohort default rates for 2009 and 2010 are 7.2% and 11.9%, respectively. apus’s “trial” three-year cohort default rate for fiscal year 2008, which was released for informational purposes only, was 11.0%. hcon’s official three-year cohort default rates for 2009 and 2010 are 6.4% and 12.7%, respectively. hcon’s unofficial, “trial” three-year cohort default rate for fiscal year 2008, which was released for informational purposes only, was 0%.  given that apus and hcon only recently began to participate in title iv programs and that the number of students receiving title iv program funds has grown significantly over time, the cohort default rates in the first few years of participation may not be indicative of the rates that will be applicable to both institutions over the long term as a greater number of students enter repayment. if one of our institutions loses its eligibility to participate in title iv programs because of high student loan default rates, students would no longer be eligible to use title iv program funds at that institution, which would significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we have relied on third parties to administer our participation in title iv programs and their failure to comply with applicable regulations could cause us to lose our eligibility to participate in title iv programs.   ed regulations permit an institution to enter into a written contract with a third-party servicer for the administration of any aspect of the institution’s participation in title iv programs. the third-party servicer must, among other obligations, comply with title iv requirements and be jointly and severally liable with the institution to the secretary of education for any violation by the servicer of any title iv provision. starting in 2006, apus utilized global financial aid services, inc. for administration of its participation in title iv programs. apus’s agreement with global financial services was terminated on august 31, 2013 at which point apus began to administer its participation in title iv programs internally, using third party software. apus has third-party servicers for other specific matters, such as default management, as does hcon. if any third-party servicer that we have engaged does not comply with applicable statute and regulations including the hea, we may be liable for its actions, and we could lose our eligibility to participate in title iv programs. we will be subject to sanctions that could be material to our results and damage our reputation if the department of education determines that we failed to calculate correctly and return timely title iv program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational program.   a school participating in title iv programs must calculate correctly the amount of unearned title iv program funds that have been disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completion and must return those unearned funds to the title iv programs in a timely manner, generally within 45 days after the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. under ed regulations, late returns of title iv program funds for 5% or more of students sampled in connection with the institution’s annual compliance audit constitute material noncompliance for which an institution generally must submit an irrevocable letter of credit. hcon’s title iv compliance audit for the year ended december 31, 2012 identified a deficiency related to timely return of title iv program funds. in a preliminary audit determination letter dated july 10, 2013, ed requested additional information from hcon about the situation and required hcon to conduct a file review to identify those files that reflected an inaccurate refund. ed has said that the matter will be addressed as part of its review of hcon’s application for a change of ownership that hcon filed in connection with our acquisition of it on november 1, 2013. if ed determines that title iv funds were not properly calculated and timely returned, we may have to repay title iv funds, post a letter of credit with ed in an amount equal to 25% of the total dollar amount of unearned title iv funds that the institution was required to return with respect to withdrawn students during the most recently completed fiscal year, or otherwise be sanctioned by ed, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. our failure to comply with ed’s substantial misrepresentation rules could result in sanctions.   ed may take action against an institution in the event of substantial misrepresentation by the institution concerning the nature of its educational programs, its financial charges, or the employability of its graduates. the program integrity regulations expanded the definition of “substantial misrepresentation” to cover additional representatives of the institution and additional substantive areas, expanded the parties to whom a substantial misrepresentation cannot be made, and increased actions ed may take if it determines that an institution has engaged in substantial misrepresentation. an institution engages in substantial misrepresentation when the institution itself, one of its representatives, or an organization or person with which the institution has an agreement to provide educational programs, marketing, advertising, or admissions services, makes a substantial misrepresentation directly or indirectly to a student, prospective student or any member of the public, or to an accrediting agency, a state agency, or to the secretary of education.   48     if ed determines that an institution has engaged in substantial misrepresentation, ed may revoke an institution’s program participation agreement, impose limitations on an institution’s participation in title iv programs, deny participation applications made on behalf of the institution, or initiate a proceeding against the institution to fine the institution or to limit, suspend or terminate the institution’s participation in title iv programs.  we expect that there could be an increase in our industry of administrative actions and litigation claiming substantial misrepresentation, which at a minimum would increase legal costs associated with defending such actions, and as a result our business could be materially and adversely affected. failure to comply with ed’s credit hour requirements could result in sanctions. in the program integrity regulations, ed defined “credit hour” for title iv purposes as an institutionally established equivalency that reasonably approximates certain specified time in class and outside class, or an equivalent amount of work for other academic activities. the program integrity regulations also require institutional accreditors to review the reliability and accuracy of an institution’s credit hour assignments. an accreditor must take appropriate actions to address an institution’s credit hour deficiencies and to notify ed if it finds systemic noncompliance or significant noncompliance in one or more programs. ed has indicated that if it finds an institution to be out of compliance with the credit hour definition for title iv purposes, it may require the institution to repay the amount of title iv awarded under the incorrect assignment of credit hours and, if it finds significant overstatement of credit hours, it may fine the institution or limit, suspend, or terminate its participation in title iv programs. any such action could materially and adversely affect our business. government and regulatory agencies and third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims, or initiate litigation against us, any of which could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our performance.   because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to audits, compliance reviews, inquiries, complaints, investigations, claims of noncompliance, and lawsuits by government agencies, regulatory agencies, and third parties, including claims brought by third parties on behalf of the federal government. for example, ed regularly conducts program reviews of educational institutions that are participating in title iv programs and the ed office of inspector general regularly conducts audits and investigations of such institutions. if the results of compliance reviews or other proceedings are unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to defend successfully against lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay monetary damages or be subject to fines, limitations, loss of title iv funding, injunctions, or other penalties, including the requirement to make refunds. even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or to defend against those lawsuits or claims. claims and lawsuits brought against us may damage our reputation, even if such claims and lawsuits are without merit. any one of these sanctions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. investigations by state attorneys general, congress, and governmental agencies may result in increased regulatory burdens and costs.   we and other proprietary post-secondary education providers have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and litigation in recent years. state attorneys general have increasingly focused on allegations of improper recruiter compensation practices and deceptive marketing practices, among other issues. a number of state attorneys general have launched investigations into proprietary post-secondary education institutions. in july 2011, the attorney general of kentucky announced a national bipartisan effort including 19 states to examine potential abuses by proprietary educational institutions. while the initial goal of the joint investigation is sharing information among the attorneys general about potential violations of consumer protection laws, the attorney general of kentucky indicated that the attorneys general may ultimately attempt to compel proprietary institutions located in their respective jurisdictions to revise their recruiting practices. in january 2014, many of the publicly traded for-profit postsecondary institutions received demands for information from a network of 12 state attorneys general relating to, among other matters, the recruitment of students, admissions standards, graduate placement statistics, graduate certification and licensing results, and student lending activities.  actions by state attorneys general and other governmental agencies, whether or not involving us, could damage our reputation and limit our ability to recruit and enroll students, which could reduce student demand for our programs and adversely impact our revenue and cash flow from operations.   49     in addition, in recent years, the student lending practices of postsecondary educational institutions, financial aid officers, and student loan providers have been subjected to several investigations by state attorneys general, congress, and governmental agencies. these investigations concern, among other things, possible deceptive practices in the marketing of private student loans and loans provided by lenders pursuant to title iv programs. the heoa contains new requirements pertinent to relationships between lenders and institutions. in addition, the heoa imposes substantive and disclosure obligations on institutions that make available a list of recommended lenders for potential borrowers. in addition, new procedures introduced and recommendations made by the consumer financial protection bureau create uncertainty about whether congress will impose new burdens on private student lenders. state legislators have also passed or may be considering legislation related to relationships between lenders and institutions. we can neither know nor predict with certainty the effects of such developments. governmental action may impose increased administrative and regulatory costs and decreased profit margins. if we undergo a change in ownership and control, the department of education will place us on provisional certification, and the terms of that provisional certification could limit our potential for growth and adversely affect our enrollment, revenues, and results of operations. ed regulations provide that a change of control of a publicly traded corporation occurs if: (1) there is an event that would obligate the corporation to file a current report on form 8-k with the sec disclosing a change of control or (ii) the corporation has a stockholder that owns at least 25% of the total outstanding voting stock of the corporation and is the largest stockholder of the corporation, and that stockholder ceases to own at least 25% of such stock or ceases to be the largest stockholder. a significant purchase or disposition of our voting stock could be determined by ed to be a change in ownership and control under this standard. under the hea, an institution that undergoes a change in ownership resulting in a change in control loses its eligibility to participate in title iv programs and must apply to ed in order to reestablish such eligibility. future transactions could constitute a change in ownership or control under ed regulations and could cause ed to place us on provisional certification as require by the hea. the conditions of provisional certification or closer review by ed could impact, among other things, our ability to add educational programs, add additional locations, acquire other schools, or make other significant changes. in addition, if ed were to determine that we were unable to meet our responsibilities while we were provisionally certified, ed could seek to revoke our certification to participate in title iv programs with fewer due process protections than if we were fully certified. limitations on our operations could, and the loss of our certification to participate in title iv programs would, adversely affect our ability to grow our presence in addition to having adverse effects on our enrollment, revenues, and results of operations. if regulators do not approve or delay their approval of transactions involving a change of control of our company or of our schools that we own or acquire, our ability to operate could be impaired.    if we or one of our institutions experiences a change of ownership or control under the standards of applicable state regulatory bodies, accrediting agencies, ed, or other regulators, we or the institution governed by such agencies must notify or seek the approval of each relevant regulatory agency. transactions or events that constitute a change of control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of an institution’s common stock, significant changes in the composition of an institution’s board of directors, internal restructurings, acquisitions of schools from other owners, or certain other transactions. some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. our failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change of control from the relevant regulatory agencies following a transaction involving a change of ownership or control could result in a suspension of operating authority or suspension or loss of federal student financial aid funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. our failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change of control from other states in which we are currently licensed or authorized could require us to suspend our activities in that state or otherwise impair our operations. the potential adverse effects of a change of control could influence future decisions by us and our stockholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance, or redemption of our stock. in addition, the regulatory burdens and risks associated with a change of control also could have an adverse effect on the market price of your shares. the u.s. congress has been examining the for-profit postsecondary education sector, which could result in legislation or additional department of education rulemaking that may limit or condition title iv program participation of proprietary schools in a manner that may materially and adversely affect our business.   in recent years, the u.s. congress has increased its focus on for-profit education institutions, including a review of their participation in title iv programs. since june 2010, the u.s. senate’s health, education, labor and pensions committee, or help committee, has held a number of hearings to examine the proprietary education sector.  at several, committee members have expressed concern about the amount of student loan debt taken on by students at for-profit institutions. following a series of hearings in march and june 2011, on july 21, 2011 the committee hosted a roundtable discussion of policy solutions for improving for-profit postsecondary education. on august 5, 2010, we received a letter from senator tom harkin, chairman of the help committee, requesting documents as part of a review of matters related to for-profit postsecondary education institutions whose students receive federal student financial aid. we understand that the request was one of approximately thirty requests made to for-profit colleges in connection with the help committee’s review of matters related to for-profit colleges participating in title iv programs. we incurred significant legal and other costs to respond to the congressional inquiry, and could incur significant legal and other cost to respond to any future inquiries.   50     on august 4, 2010, the gao released a report based on a three-month undercover investigation of recruiting practices at proprietary institutions, which concluded that employees at a non-random sample of 15 proprietary institutions (which did not include apus) made deceptive statements to students about accreditation, graduation rates, job placement, program costs, or financial aid. on october 31, 2011, the gao released a second report following additional undercover investigation related to enrollment, cost, financial aid, course structure, substandard student performance, withdrawal, and exit counseling. the report concluded that while some of the 15 unidentified for-profit schools investigated appeared to follow existing policies, others did not. on july 30, 2012, the senate help committee released a report entitled “for profit higher education: the failure to safeguard the federal investment and ensure student success.” while acknowledging that for-profit institutions have a role to play in higher education, the report criticized the proprietary institution industry on many fronts, and recommended several measures for reform which could change the participation of proprietary institutions in title iv funding, including the following: •       tie access to federal financial aid to minimum student outcome thresholds. •       prohibit institutions from funding marketing, advertising and recruiting activities with federal financial aid dollars. •       expand the reporting period for cohort default rates beyond three years. •       require that for-profits receive 15% of revenues from non-federal sources. •       extend the ban on incentive compensation to include all employees of institutions of higher education, and clarify that this ban extends to numeric threshold or quota-based termination policies the report was not adopted by the full committee, and the minority members released their own report criticizing the majority’s investigation in many aspects, including that it did not include a review of all institutions of higher education. on september 21, 2012, a group of senators wrote a letter to the federal trade commission urging it to evaluate the marketing practices utilized by many proprietary institutions through the use of third-party lead generators. in addition, legislation has been introduced that includes some of the proposals in the help committee report described above. for example, legislation was introduced in the senate in april 2012 that would prevent institutions from using title iv funds for marketing activities. similar legislation was introduced in the house of representatives in january 2013 and re-introduced in the senate in march 2013. we cannot predict the extent to which, or whether, these hearings and investigations will result in legislation, further rulemaking affecting our participation in title iv programs, or litigation alleging statutory violations, regulatory infractions or common law causes of action. the adoption of any law or regulation that reduces funding for federal student financial aid programs or the ability of our schools or students to participate in these programs could have a material adverse effect on our student population and revenue. legislative action also may increase our administrative costs and require us to modify our practices in order for our schools to comply with applicable requirements. additionally, actions by state attorneys general and other governmental agencies could damage our reputation and limit our ability to recruit and enroll students, which could reduce student demand for our programs and adversely impact our revenue and cash flow from operations. congressional examination of department of defense oversight of tuition assistance used for distance education and proprietary institutions and pending rulemaking by the department of defense could result in legislative or regulatory changes that may materially and adversely affect our business.   in recent years, the u.s. congress has increased its focus on department of defense, dod, tuition assistance that is used for distance education and programs at proprietary institutions.  in september 2010, the subcommittee on oversight and investigations of the u.s. house of representative’s armed services committee held a hearing titled “a question of quality and value:  department of defense oversight of tuition assistance used for distance learning and for-profit colleges.”  witnesses and subcommittee members expressed concern about dod’s oversight of distance education programs, especially those offered by proprietary institutions.   in addition, in december 2010, the senate help committee released a report entitled “benefitting whom? for-profit education companies and the growth of military educational benefits,” which raised questions about the growing share of dod tuition assistance received by proprietary institutions. in march 2011, the gao published a report entitled “dod education benefits: increased oversight of tuition assistance program is needed,” which offered several recommendations for improving accountability within the tuition assistance program. in september 2011, the senate subcommittee on federal financial management, government information, federal services, and international security held a hearing focused on the classification of military education benefits under the 90/10 rule. some of the panelists suggested that the classification of military benefits as non-title iv revenue for purposes of the 90/10 rule has led some for-profit institutions to recruit aggressively and sometimes illegally members of the military in order to ensure compliance with the 90/10 rule.   51     we cannot predict the extent to which, or whether, congressional hearings will affect dod’s current rulemaking or result in legislation or further rulemaking affecting our participation in dod tuition assistance programs or title iv programs. members of congress have stated, both in committee hearings and in the help committee report, that congress should revise the 90/10 rule to count dod tuition assistance and va veterans educational benefits toward the 90% limit. in january 2012 and again in november 2013, senators harkin and durbin introduced a bill to modify the 90/10 rule by reducing the threshold to 85% and counting title iv programs, dod tuition assistance program, and va education benefits programs as sources from which an institution may derive no more than 85% of its revenue. a companion bill was introduced in the u.s. house of representatives in november 2013. in february 2012, companion bills were introduced in the u.s. senate and u.s. house of representatives that would modify the 90/10 rule to count dod tuition assistance and va veterans educations benefits toward the 90% limit, along with title iv programs. we cannot predict the likelihood that congress will amend the 90/10 rule to count dod tuition assistance and va education benefits toward the 90% limit or to lower the ratio to 85/15, nor can we predict the likelihood that congress or president obama will not take some other action to limit dod tuition assistance and va education benefits to proprietary institutions.   to the extent that any laws or regulations are adopted that limit or condition the participation of proprietary schools or distance education programs in dod tuition assistance programs or in title iv programs with respect to dod tuition assistance programs, or that limit or condition the amount of tuition assistance for which proprietary schools or distance education programs are eligible, our business could be materially and adversely affected.   congress has in the past changed, and may in the future change, eligibility standards and funding levels for federal student financial aid programs. other governmental or regulatory bodies may also change similar laws or regulations relating to student financial aid programs, which could adversely affect our student population, revenues and profit margin.   political and budgetary concerns can significantly affect title iv programs and other laws and regulations governing federal and state student financial aid programs. title iv programs are made available pursuant to the provisions of the hea, and the hea comes up for reauthorization by congress approximately every five to six years. authorization of appropriations for most hea programs is provided through federal fiscal year 2014, with the general education provisions act, or gepa, providing authorization of appropriations for an additional year-through federal fiscal year 2015.  in the past, congress has passed short-term nonsubstantive extensions of the hea pending comprehensive reauthorization legislation. further, when congress does not act on comprehensive reauthorization through a single piece of legislation, it may act through multiple pieces of legislation. congress completed the most recent reauthorization through multiple pieces of legislation and may reauthorize the hea in a piecemeal manner in the future. additionally, congress determines the funding level for each title iv program on an annual basis. future congressional action, including in reauthorizations or appropriations acts, may result in numerous legislative changes, including those that could adversely affect our ability to participate in title iv programs and the availability of title iv and non-title iv funding sources for our students. members of congress frequently propose legislation to alter or amend the terms under which our institutions participate in the federal student financial aid programs. any action by congress that significantly reduces funding for title iv programs or the ability of our school or students to participate in these programs could materially harm our business. a reduction in government funding levels could lead to lower enrollments at our school and require us to arrange for alternative sources of financial aid for our students. lower student enrollments or our inability to arrange such alternative sources of funding could adversely affect our business. congressional action may also require us to modify our practices in ways that could result in increased administrative and regulatory costs and decreased profit margin. we are not in a position to predict with certainty whether any legislation will be passed by congress or signed into law in the future. the reallocation of funding among title iv programs, material changes in the requirements for participation in such programs, or the substitution of materially different title iv programs could reduce the ability of certain students to finance their education at our institution and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.   52     new rulemaking by ed could result in regulatory changes that materially and adversely affect our operations, business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow.   in april 2013 ed announced its intention, over the next several years, to conduct rulemakings related to the federal student aid programs. at this time, ed has formed three negotiated rulemaking committees to address various issues. first, ed convened a negotiated rulemaking committee to address the appropriateness of adopting standards for measuring whether programs offered by proprietary institutions such as ours prepare students for “gainful employment” in a recognized occupation. the gainful employment negotiating rulemaking sessions were held september 9-11, november 18-20, and december 13, 2013.for more information about the committee’s work, see “regulation of our business - recent legislative and regulatory matters - regulatory activity - pending rulemakings.”  the negotiated rulemaking committee failed to reach consensus, so ed is not bound to accept any proposals discussed during the negotiated rulemaking process. we cannot predict the nature of any final rules that may be adopted through this negotiated rulemaking process. second, ed has convened a negotiated rulemaking committee to address implementation of the changes made by the violence against women reauthorization act of 2013 to the campus safety and security reporting requirements in the hea. the violence against women act negotiated rulemaking committee met january 13-14, 2014 and is scheduled to meet february 24-25 and march 31-april 1, 2014. third, on november 20, 2013, ed announced the establishment of a negotiated rulemaking committee on program integrity and improvement. the program integrity and improvement committee met february 19-21, 2014 and is scheduled to meet march 26-28 and april 23-25, 2014. according to ed, topics likely to be addressed by the program integrity and improvement negotiated rulemaking committee include: cash management; statue authorization for programs offered through distance education; state authorization for foreign locations; clock-to-credit hour conversion; the definition of “adverse credit” for borrowers in the federal direct plus loan program, and the application of the repeat coursework provisions to graduate and undergraduate programs. we cannot predict with certainty the substance of any new regulations, how they will be interpreted after promulgation, or whether we and our schools will be able to comply with them in the future. our regulatory environment and our reputation may be negatively influenced by the actions of other for-profit institutions.   we are one of a number of for-profit institutions serving the postsecondary education market. in recent years, regulatory investigations and civil litigation have been commenced against several companies that own for-profit educational institutions. these investigations and lawsuits have alleged, among other things, deceptive trade practices and noncompliance with ed regulations. these allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of federal and state legislative hearings. broader allegations against the overall for-profit school sector may negatively affect public perceptions of for-profit educational institutions, including apus and hcon. in addition, in recent years reports on student lending practices of various lending institutions and schools, including for-profit schools, and investigations by a number of state attorneys general, congress and governmental agencies have led to adverse media coverage of postsecondary education. adverse media coverage regarding other companies in the for-profit school sector or regarding us directly could damage our reputation, could result in lower enrollments, revenues and operating profit, and could have a negative impact on our stock price. such allegations could also result in increased scrutiny and regulation by ed, congress, accrediting bodies, state legislatures, or other governmental authorities with respect to all for-profit institutions, including us. risks related to owning our common stock   the price of our common stock may be volatile, and as a result returns on an investment in our common stock may be volatile.   we completed our initial public offering in november 2007. for a significant portion of the time since our initial public offering, we have had relatively limited public float, and trading in our common stock has also been limited and, at times, volatile. an active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained, and the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. the price of the common stock may fluctuate as a result of:   •       price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; •       significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of comparable companies; •       actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, enrollments or net course registrations, or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts; •       the actual, anticipated or perceived impact of changes in government policies, laws and regulations, or similar changes made by accrediting bodies; •       the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; •       general economic conditions and trends; •       catastrophic events; •       sales of large blocks of our stock; or •       recruitment or departure of key personnel.   53     in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. because of the potential volatility of our stock price, we may become the target of securities litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business.   seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our quarterly results fluctuate and, therefore, the results in any quarter may not represent the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or full year. our revenues and operating results normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal or other variations in our enrollments. student population varies as a result of new enrollments, graduations, student attrition, the success of our marketing programs, and other reasons that we cannot always anticipate. while our number of enrolled students has grown in each sequential quarter over the past three years, the number of enrolled students has been proportionally greatest in the fourth quarter of each respective year. we expect quarterly fluctuations in operating results to continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns. these fluctuations may result in volatility in our results of operations, have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, or both.   provisions in our organizational documents and in the delaware general corporation law may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders.   provisions in our charter and bylaws and in the delaware general corporation law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a takeover attempt we oppose even if a change in control of our company would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. these provisions include:   •       the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences and rights of each series without stockholder approval, which may discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our company; •       a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of their intention to nominate a director or to propose any other business at an annual meeting of stockholders; •       a prohibition against stockholder action by means of written consent unless otherwise approved by our board of directors in advance; and •       the application of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting stock, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner. item 1b. unresolved