item 1a. risk factors investing in our company involves various risks, including the risk that you might lose your entire investment. our results of operations depend upon many factors including our ability to implement our business strategy, the availability of opportunities to acquire assets, the level and volatility of interest rates, the cost and availability of short- and long-term credit, financial market conditions and general economic conditions. the following discussion concerns the material risks associated with our business. these risks are interrelated, and you should consider them as a whole. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also materially and adversely affect the value of our capital stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. in connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report on form 10-k, including these risk factors and elsewhere, you should carefully review the section entitled “cautionary statement about forward-looking information.”   risks related to our principal investing activities   continued adverse developments in the residential mortgage market may adversely affect the value of our securities and our ability to borrow against our security assets.   since mid-2007, the residential mortgage market in the united states has experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions that may adversely affect the performance and market value of the mbs we acquire.  securities backed by residential mortgage loans originated in 2006 and 2007 have experienced a higher and earlier than expected rate of delinquencies.  additionally, other earlier vintages of mbs may not be performing as expected.  many mbs have been downgraded by the rating agencies in recent years and the rating agencies may in the future downgrade mbs.  as a result, the market for these securities may be adversely affected for a significant period of time.   during 2011, housing prices and appraisal values in many states continued to decline.  a continued decline or an extended flattening of those values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, particularly with respect to second homes and investor properties and with respect to any residential mortgage loans whose aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate liens) are close to or greater than the related property values.   current market conditions may impair borrowers’ ability to refinance or sell their properties, which may contribute to higher delinquency and default rates.  borrowers seeking to avoid increased monthly payments by refinancing may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparably low interest rates.  a continued decline in housing prices may also leave borrowers with insufficient equity in their homes to permit them to refinance.  borrowers who intended to sell their homes or refinance their existing mortgage loans on or before the expiration of the fixed-rate periods on their mortgage loans may find that they cannot sell their property for an amount equal to or greater than the unpaid principal balance of their loans or obtain new financing at lower rates. in addition, some mortgage loans may include prepayment premiums that may further inhibit refinancing.   servicers of residential mortgage loans also have the authority to modify mortgage loans that are in default, or for which default is reasonably foreseeable, if such modifications are in the best interests of the holders of the mortgage securities and such modifications are done in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreements. loan modifications are more likely to be used when borrowers are less able to refinance or sell their homes due to market conditions, and when the potential recovery from a foreclosure is reduced due to lower property values. a significant number of loan modifications could result in a significant reduction in cash flows to the holders of the mortgage securities on an ongoing basis.   various federal, state and local regulatory authorities have taken or proposed actions that could hinder the ability of the servicer to foreclose promptly on defaulted mortgage loans.  any such actions may adversely affect the performance of the loans and the yield on and value of the mortgage securities.   investors should consider that the general market conditions discussed above may adversely affect the market value of the securities in our mbs portfolio and make it difficult or more expensive for us to borrow against those securities.   the conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between fannie mae and freddie mac and the federal government, may adversely affect our business.   the agency-backed mbs in which we invest depend on a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities.  the interest and principal payments we receive on the agency-backed mbs that we acquire are guaranteed by fannie mae or freddie mac.  fannie mae and freddie mac are u.s. government-sponsored entities (gses), but their guarantees are not backed by the full faith and credit of the u.s. government.   since 2007, fannie mae and freddie mac have reported substantial losses and a need for significant amounts of additional capital.  in response to the deteriorating financial condition of fannie mae and freddie mac and the overall credit market disruption, congress and the u.s. treasury undertook a series of actions to stabilize these gses and the financial markets, generally.  in july 2008, the u.s. government passed the housing and economic recovery act of 2008 (hera), which established the federal housing finance agency (fhfa), with enhanced regulatory authority over, among other things, the business of fannie mae and freddie mac.  in september 2008, the fhfa placed fannie mae and freddie mac into conservatorship and, together with the u.s. treasury, established a program designed to boost investor confidence in fannie mae’s and freddie mac’s debt and mortgage-backed securities.  in addition to fhfa becoming the conservator of fannie mae and freddie mac, the u.s. treasury has taken steps to capitalize and provide financing to fannie mae and freddie mac.  the fha, together with the u.s. treasury and the u.s. federal reserve, has also undertaken actions designed to boost investor confidence in fannie mae and freddie mac, support the availability of mortgage financing and protect taxpayers.  despite these government actions to capitalize and provide financing to fannie mae and freddie mac, there can be no assurance that these actions will be adequate for their needs.  if these actions are inadequate, fannie mae and freddie mac could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations.   the problems faced by fannie mae and freddie mac that resulted in their being placed into federal conservatorship have stirred debate among some federal policy makers regarding the continued role of the u.s. government in providing liquidity for the residential mortgage market.  if federal policy makers decide that the u.s. government’s role in providing liquidity for the residential mortgage market should be reduced or eliminated, each of fannie mae and freddie mac could be dissolved and the u.s. government could decide to stop providing liquidity support of any kind to the mortgage market.  even if they are not eliminated, the future roles of fannie mae and freddie mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be considerably limited relative to historical measurements.  any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by fannie mae and freddie mac could redefine what constitutes an agency-backed security and could have broad adverse market implications and significant implications for our own business.     11 table of contents   our income could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold.  for example, the current credit support provided by the u.s. treasury to fannie mae and freddie mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rate we expect to receive from agency-backed mbs that we seek to acquire, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. a reduction in the supply of agency-backed mbs could also negatively affect the pricing of agency-backed mbs we seek to acquire, thereby reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio.  if fannie mae or freddie mac were eliminated, or their structures were to change radically, we would not be able to acquire agency-backed mbs from these entities, which would drastically reduce the amount and type of agency-backed mbs available for investment.   as indicated above, recent legislation has changed the relationship between fannie mae and freddie mac and the federal government and requires fannie mae and freddie mac to reduce the amount of mortgage loans they own or for which they provide guarantees on agency-backed mbs.  we cannot predict what role fannie mae and freddie mac will play in the future housing market.  future legislation could further change the relationship between fannie mae and freddie mac and the federal government, and could also nationalize or eliminate such entities entirely. any law affecting these gses may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by fannie mae or freddie mac. as a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on investments in mbs guaranteed by fannie mae and/or freddie mac. it also is possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade. all of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.   to the extent that we invest in agency-backed mbs that are guaranteed by fannie mae and freddie mac, we are subject to the risk that these gses may not be fully able to satisfy their guarantee obligations or that these guarantee obligations may be repudiated, which would adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and our ability to sell or finance these securities.   all the agency-backed mbs in which we invest depend on a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities. the interest and principal payments we receive on the agency-backed mbs that we acquire are guaranteed by fannie mae or freddie mac but are not guaranteed by the u.s. government.  to the extent these gses are not able to fully satisfy their guarantee obligations or that these guarantee obligations are repudiated, the value of our investment portfolio and our ability to sell or finance these securities would be adversely affected.   market conditions and actions by governmental authorities may upset the historical relationship between interest rate changes and prepayment trends, which would make it more difficult for us to analyze our investment portfolio.   our success depends on our ability to analyze the relationship of changing interest rates on prepayments of the mortgage loans that underlie our mbs.  changes in interest rates and prepayments affect the market price of mbs that we intend to purchase and any mbs that we hold at a given time. as part of our overall portfolio risk management, we analyze interest rate changes and prepayment trends separately and collectively to assess their effects on our investment portfolio. in conducting our analysis, we depend on certain assumptions based upon historical trends with respect to the relationship between interest rates and prepayments under normal market conditions.  the homeowner affordability and stability plan (hasp) announced by the u.s. treasury in february 2009, the “operation twist” program announced by the u.s. federal reserve in september 2011 and the expansion of the home affordable refinance program (harp) announced by the federal housing finance agency in october 2011 have caused, and could continue to cause, an increase in prepayment rates.  if the dislocations in the residential mortgage market, recent or future government actions or other developments change the way that prepayment trends have historically responded to interest rate changes, our ability to (i) assess the market value of our investment portfolio, (ii) implement our hedging strategies and (iii) implement techniques to reduce our prepayment rate volatility would be significantly affected.  if we are unable to accurately forecast interest and prepayment rates, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.   mortgage loan modification programs, future legislative action and changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing a mortgage with fannie mae, freddie mac or ginnie mae may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the mbs in which we invest.   during the second half of 2008, the u.s. government, through the federal housing administration (fha) and the federal deposit insurance corporation (fdic), commenced implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures, including the hope for homeowners act of 2008, which allows certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into fha-insured loans.  in addition, fannie mae and freddie mac instituted programs designed to assist distressed homeowners avoid foreclosure.  these and any future programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans.     12 table of contents   in addition, in february 2009 the u.s. treasury announced hasp, which is a multi-faceted plan intended to prevent residential mortgage foreclosures by, among other things:     · allowing certain homeowners whose homes are encumbered by fannie mae or freddie mac conforming mortgages to refinance those mortgages into lower interest rate mortgages with either fannie mae or freddie mac;     · creating the homeowner stability initiative, which is intended to utilize various incentives for banks and mortgage servicers to modify residential mortgage loans with the goal of reducing monthly mortgage principal and interest payments for certain qualified homeowners; and     · allowing judicial modifications of fannie mae and freddie mac conforming residential mortgage loans during bankruptcy proceedings.   in september 2011, the white house announced a major plan to allow some of the 11 million homeowners who owe more on their mortgages than their homes are worth to refinance.  in october 2011, the fhfa announced proposed changes to harp that would expand access to refinancing for qualified individuals and families whose homes have lost value, among other things, increasing the harp loan-to-value ratio above 125%.  however, this would only apply to mortgages guaranteed by the gses.  there are many challenging issues to this proposal, notably the question as to whether a loan with a loan-to-value ratio of 125% qualifies as a mortgage or an unsecured consumer loan.  the chances of this initiative’s success have created additional uncertainty in the mbs market, particularly with respect to possible increases in prepayment rates.   on january 4, 2012, the u.s. federal reserve issued a white paper outlining additional ideas with regard to refinancings and loan modifications.  it is likely that loan modifications would result in increased prepayments on agency-backed mbs.  see “risks to our business—an increase in prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our mbs purchased at a premium, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders” for information relating to the impact of prepayments on our business.  these initiatives, any loan modification programs and future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans, as well as changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing a mortgage with fannie mae, freddie mac or ginnie mae may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our mbs.   we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we previously sold or securitized or indemnify investors and other third parties if the loans that we sold do not comply with certain representations and warranties, which could harm our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.   through early 2007, we sold loans in connection with securitization transactions. as a standard practice, we were required to make customary representations and warranties about the loans to the securitization trusts regarding, among other things, certain characteristics of those assets. the securitization documents generally require us to repurchase a loan in the event that the loan is materially out of compliance with these representations and warranties and such failure causes a loss to the related securitization trust. if a securitization trust enforces a loan repurchase right against us, we may have a corresponding remedy against the party that originally sold the loan to us. however, because the parties that sold loans to us often are no longer in business, the burden of any such loan repurchase obligation generally may fall on us. significant repurchase claims and obligations could harm our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.   declines in the market values of the securities in our mbs portfolio may adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   a substantial portion of our assets are classified for accounting purposes either as “trading securities” or as “available-for-sale.” changes in the market values of those assets will be directly charged or credited to shareholders’ equity. as a result, a decline in value may reduce the book value of our assets. moreover, if the decline in value of an available-for-sale security is other-than-temporary, such decline will reduce earnings, as will a decline in the value of our securities classified as trading securities for accounting purposes.   a decline in the market value of the securities in our mbs portfolio may adversely affect us particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. if the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan. if we were unable to post the additional collateral, we would have to sell the assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. a reduction in credit available may reduce our earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to shareholders.     13 table of contents   our mortgage investing strategy involves leverage, which could adversely affect our operations and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   we may reduce the amount of equity capital we have invested in agency-backed mbs or other mortgage-backed assets by funding a portion of those acquisitions with repurchase agreements, commercial paper (to the extent commercial paper is available on favorable terms or at all) or other borrowing arrangements.  to the extent that revenue derived from those assets exceeds our interest expense, hedging expense and other costs of the financing, our net income will be greater than if we had not borrowed funds and had not invested in the assets. conversely, if the revenue from our mbs and other mortgage-backed assets does not sufficiently cover the interest expense, hedging expense and other costs of the financing, our net income will be less or our net loss will be greater than if we had not borrowed funds.  because of the credit and interest rate risks inherent in our strategy, we closely monitor the leverage (debt-to-equity ratio) of our mbs portfolio.  from time to time, our leverage ratio may increase or decrease due to several factors, including changes in the value of the underlying portfolio holdings and the timing and amount of acquisitions.   our lenders may require us to provide additional collateral, especially when the market values for our investments decline, which may restrict us from leveraging our assets as fully as desired, and reduce our liquidity, earnings and cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   we currently use repurchase agreements to finance our investments in mbs.  our repurchase agreements allow the lenders, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions.  if the market value of the securities pledged or sold by us to a funding source declines in value, we may be required by the lender to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced on minimal notice, which is known as a margin call.  posting additional collateral will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets, which could adversely affect our business. additionally, in order to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur further losses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may impair our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.  in the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy these margin calls, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness, increase our borrowing rates, liquidate our collateral and terminate our ability to borrow.  such a situation would likely result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and possibly necessitate a filing for protection under the bankruptcy code.   if we fail to maintain adequate repurchase agreement financing or to renew or replace existing borrowings upon maturity, we will be limited in our ability to implement our principal investing activities, which will adversely affect our results of operations and may, in turn, negatively affect the market value of our class a common stock and our ability to make dividends to our shareholders.   we depend upon repurchase agreement financing to purchase our target assets and reach our target leverage ratio. we cannot assure you that sufficient repurchase agreement financing will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us.  investors and financial institutions that lend in the securities repurchase market have tightened lending standards and some have stopped lending entirely in the repurchase market in response to the difficulties and changed economic conditions that have materially adversely affected the mbs market.   if we fail to obtain adequate funding or to renew or replace existing funding upon maturity, we will be limited in our ability to implement our business strategy, which will adversely affect our results of operations and may, in turn, negatively affect the market value of our class a common stock and our ability to make dividends to our shareholders.   our use of repurchase agreements may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or any of our lenders file for bankruptcy, which may make it difficult for us to recover our collateral.   our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay if we file for bankruptcy.  furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that any of our lenders file for bankruptcy.  thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either our lenders or us. in addition, if the lender is a broker or dealer subject to the securities investor protection act of 1970 or an insured depository institution subject to the federal deposit insurance act, our ability to exercise our rights to recover our investment under a repurchase agreement or to be compensated for any damages resulting from the lender’s insolvency may be further limited by those statutes.   if the lending institution under one or more of our repurchase agreements defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the agreement term, we will lose money on our repurchase transactions.   when we engage in a repurchase transaction, we initially sell securities to the transaction counterparty under a master repurchase agreement in exchange for cash from the counterparty.  the counterparty is obligated to resell the same securities back to us at the end of the term of the repurchase agreement, which typically is 30 to 90 days, but may be up to one year.  if the counterparty in a repurchase transaction defaults on its obligation to resell the securities back to us, we will incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming no change in the value of the securities).  losses incurred on our repurchase transactions would adversely affect our earnings and our cash available for distribution to our shareholders.     14 table of contents   if we default on our obligations under our repurchase agreements, we may be unable to establish a suitable replacement facility on acceptable terms or at all.   if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase agreement, the counterparty may terminate the agreement and cease entering into any other repurchase agreements with us.  in that case, we would likely need to establish a replacement repurchase facility with another financial institution in order to continue to leverage our investment portfolio and carry out our investment strategy.  we may be unable to establish a suitable replacement repurchase facility on acceptable terms or at all.   changes in interest rates and adverse market conditions could negatively affect the value of our mbs investments and increase the cost of our borrowings, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   we acquire indirect interests in mortgage loans by purchasing mbs and we currently intend to continue this strategy.  under a normal yield curve, an investment in mbs will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase.  in addition, net interest income could decrease if the yield curve becomes inverted or flat.  fannie mae or freddie mac guarantees of the agency-backed mbs we own do not protect us from declines in market value caused by changes in interest rates.  declines in market value may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   a significant risk associated with our portfolio of mortgage-related assets is the risk that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly.  if long-term rates were to increase significantly, the market value of these mbs would decline and the duration and weighted average life of the investments would increase. we could realize a loss in the future if the mbs were sold.  at the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the repurchase agreements we enter into in order to finance the purchase of mbs.   market values of mbs may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments and widening of credit spreads.  if the market values of our investments were to decline for any reason, the value of your investment in our capital stock could also decline.   limitations on our access to capital could impair our liquidity and our ability to conduct our business.   liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business.  failures of similar businesses have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity.  liquidity is of particular importance to our business and perceived liquidity issues may affect our clients’ and counterparties’ willingness to engage in transactions with us.  our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption, the payment of significant legal defense and indemnification costs, expenses, damages or settlement amounts, or an operational problem that affects us or third parties.  further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time or the market is experiencing significant volatility. our inability to maintain adequate liquidity would materially harm our business and operations.   the nature of the securities we hold exposes us to concentrated credit risk that could reduce our earnings, dividends, cash flows and access to liquidity, and otherwise negatively affect our business.   our private-label mbs portfolio has concentrated risks with respect to residential real estate loans. in general, losses on an asset securing a residential real estate loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the owner of the property (i.e. the owner will first lose the equity invested in the property) and, thereafter, by mezzanine or preferred equity investors, if any, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, then by the first-loss holder, and then by holders of more senior securities. in the event the losses incurred upon default on the loan exceed any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and classes of securities junior to those in which we invest (if any), we may not be able to recover any or all of our investment in the securities we hold. in addition, if the underlying properties have been overvalued by the originating appraisal or if the values subsequently declined and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related private-label mbs, then the first-loss securities may suffer a total loss of principal, followed by losses on the second-loss and so on. any credit enhancement we may have with respect to our private-label mbs could be insufficient to protect us from a complete loss.   our due diligence of potential investments may not reveal all of the liabilities associated with those investments and may not reveal aspects of the investments which could lead to investment losses, and our ability to manage exposures to assets in which we have an indirect interest is limited.   before making certain acquisitions, we may undertake due diligence efforts with respect to various aspects of the acquisition, including investigating the strengths and weaknesses of the originator or issuer of the asset and, in the case of acquisitions of private-label mbs, verifying certain aspects of the underlying assets themselves as well as other factors and characteristics that may be material to the performance of the acquisition. in making the assessment and otherwise conducting due diligence, we rely on resources available to us and, in some cases, third party information. there can be no assurance that any due diligence process that we conduct will uncover relevant facts that could be determinative of whether or not an investment will be successful.   moreover, our ability to manage our exposures is significantly limited by contractual and other constraints of the securitization vehicle structures in which such assets are held.     15 table of contents   the securities and loans we own are likely to lead to variable returns.   we actively manage the risks associated with acquiring, holding and disposing of mbs.  no amount of risk management or mitigation, however, can change the variable nature of the cash flows, fair values of, and financial results generated by these loans and securities.  changes in the credit performance or the prepayments on the loans underlying private-label mbs and changes in interest rates impact the cash flows on these securities, and the impact could be significant for our securities with concentrated risks.  changes in cash flows lead to changes in our return and also to potential variability in reported income.   the revenue recognized on our private-label mbs is based on an estimate of the yield over the remaining life of the asset.  thus, changes in our estimates of expected cash flow from an asset will result in changes in our reported earnings on that asset in the current reporting period.  we may be forced to recognize adverse changes in expected future cash flows as a current expense, further adding to earnings volatility.   changes in the fair values of our mbs may have various negative effects on us, including reduced earnings, increased earnings volatility and volatility in our book value.   fair values for our mbs can be volatile.  the fair values can change rapidly and significantly and changes can result from changes in interest rates, actual and perceived risk, supply, demand, and actual and projected cash flows and prepayments and credit performance.  a decrease in fair value may not necessarily be the result of deterioration in future cash flows.  a decrease in the fair value of mbs we own may result in a reduction in our book value due to the accounting standards we are required to apply.  reporting a low book value could have adverse effects even if that book value is not indicative of the actual value of our net investments in assets.  the adverse effects include the inability to meet or agree upon covenants with counterparties, to enter into derivative contracts or a reduction in the market price of our class a common stock.   our investments are recorded at fair value based upon assumptions that are inherently subjective and involve a high degree of management judgment.  our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal.   our current portfolio investments are, and our future portfolio investments may be, in the form of securities that are not publicly traded.  the fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable.  in computing the fair values for mbs for which there are limited observable third-party trades, we make a number of market-based assumptions, including assumptions regarding future interest rates, prepayment rates, discount rates, credit loss rates, and the timing of credit losses.  these assumptions are inherently subjective and involve a high degree of management judgment, and our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a public market for these securities existed.  although we rely on our internal calculations to compute the fair value of securities we own, we also request and consider indications of value (marks) from third-party dealers to assist us in our valuation process.  the results of market disruptions over the past several years have generated fewer third-party data points for us to consider in connection with our estimates of the fair value of our securities than were available to us in the past.  our reported fair value may not reflect what a willing buyer would pay for those assets.  our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments is materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal.   credit ratings assigned to debt securities by the credit rating agencies may not accurately reflect the risks associated with those securities.   we make certain acquisition decisions after factoring in a series of data, including credit rating.  however, a credit rating may not accurately reflect the risks associated with a particular debt security.  rating agencies rate certain debt securities based upon their assessment of the safety of the receipt of principal and interest payments. rating agencies do not consider the risks of fluctuations in fair value or other factors that may influence the value of debt securities and, therefore, the assigned credit rating may not fully reflect the true risks of an investment in securities. also, rating agencies may fail to make timely adjustments to credit ratings based on available data or changes in economic outlook or may otherwise fail to make changes in credit ratings in response to subsequent events, so that our investments may be better or worse than the ratings indicate.   the assignment of an “investment grade” rating to a security by a rating agency does not mean that there is not credit risk associated with the security or that the risk of a credit loss with respect to such security is remote.  for example, a large number of mbs that were previously rated triple-a by one or more rating agencies have been downgraded, in many cases by several rating levels at one time. a downgrade in credit rating can materially adversely affect the fair value of a security.  our assessment of the quality of an investment that relies, in part, on that asset’s credit rating, may prove to be inaccurate and we may incur credit losses in excess of our initial expectations.   furthermore, credit rating agencies may change their methods of evaluating credit risk and determining ratings on mbs.  these changes may occur quickly and often. the market’s ability to understand and absorb these changes, and the impact to the securitization market in general, are difficult to predict.  such changes will have an impact on the amount of investment-grade and non-investment-grade securities that are created or placed on the market in the future.  a change in the amount of investment-grade and non-investment-grade securities that are created or placed on the market could materially adversely impact the value of the mbs in our portfolio and potentially limit or increase the value of mbs available for purchase in the future.     16 table of contents   new assets we acquire may not generate yields as attractive as yields on our current assets, resulting in a decline in our earnings per share over time.   we believe the assets we acquire have the potential to generate attractive economic returns and gaap yields, but acquiring assets in an uncertain economic environment poses significant risks. potential cash flow and mark-to-market returns from new asset acquisitions could be negative, including both new assets that are backed by newly-originated loans, as well as new acquisitions that are backed by more seasoned assets that may experience higher than expected levels of delinquency and default. in order to maintain and grow our portfolio size and our earnings, we must reinvest in new assets a portion of the cash flows we receive from principal, interest, and sales. we receive monthly payments from many of our assets, consisting of principal and interest. principal payments reduce the size of our current portfolio and generate cash for us. we may also sell assets from time to time as part of our portfolio management and capital recycling strategies. if the assets we acquire in the future earn lower gaap yields than the assets we currently own, our reported earnings per share will likely decline over time as the older assets pay down, are called, or are sold.   an increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our mortgage-related assets may adversely affect our profitability, which may reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   as our repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowing instruments mature, we must either enter into new repurchase agreements or sell a portion of our mortgage-related assets or other investment securities at times when we might not otherwise choose to do so.  lenders may seek to use a new maturity date as a opportune time to demand additional terms or increased collateral requirements that could be adverse to us an harm our operations.  moreover, current conditions in the credit markets may make it impracticable to enter into new repurchase agreements or other short-term facilities.  see “risks related to our business—in general, changes in market conditions could further adversely and materially affect our business and the value of our capital stock could be negatively impacted.”   we generally expect that the interest rates tied to our borrowings will adjust more rapidly than the interest rates tied to the assets in which we invest.  an increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to enter into new repurchase agreements would reduce the spread between our returns on our mortgage-related assets and the cost of our borrowings.  this change in interest rates would adversely affect our returns on our mortgage-related assets portfolio, which might reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   an increase in prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our mbs purchased at a premium, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   in the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their loans.  homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when interest rates decline.  furthermore, each of hasp and “operation twist” and the expansion of harp have caused, and could continue to cause, an increase in prepayment rates.  when interest rates decline, owners of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates.  conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when interest rates increase.  consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates.  this volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our mortgage-based securities portfolio and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders.  fannie mae or freddie mac guarantees of principal and interest related to the agency-backed mbs we own do not protect us against prepayment risks.   hedging against interest rate exposure may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk and may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   we engage in certain hedging transactions to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates and therefore may expose our company to the risks associated with such transactions.  we have historically entered into and may enter into interest rate swap agreements, eurodollar or u.s. treasury futures or pursue other hedging strategies.  hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. however, we may establish other hedging positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions.  such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase.  moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price.   the success of our hedging transactions depends on our ability to accurately predict movements of interest rates and credit spreads.  therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions.  in addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged.  any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss.     17 table of contents   we currently hedge against interest rate risk.  our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal prepayments, the type of mbs held, and other changing market conditions.  interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things:     · interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates;     · available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;     · the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability;     · the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and     · the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay.   our hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   we may change our investment strategy, hedging strategy, asset allocation and operational policies without shareholder consent, which may result in riskier investments and adversely affect the market value of our class a common stock and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.   we may change our investment strategy, hedging strategy, asset allocation and operational policies at any time without the consent of our shareholders, which could result in our making investments or hedges that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and hedges described in this annual report on form 10-k. a change in our investment or hedging strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and real estate market fluctuations.  a change in our asset allocation could result in us making investments in instrument categories different from those described in this annual report on form 10-k.  our board of directors oversees our operational policies, including those with respect to our acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions or approves transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders.  operational policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our class a common stock and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.   our board of directors does not approve each of our investment decisions.   our board of directors oversees our operational policies and periodically reviews our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio.  however, our board of directors does not review all of our proposed investments.  in addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our board of directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by our management.  furthermore, transactions entered into or structured for us by our management may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our directors.   we operate in a highly-competitive market for investment opportunities, which could make it difficult for us to purchase or originate investments at attractive yields and thus have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   we gain access to investment opportunities only to the extent that they become known to us.  gaining access to investment opportunities is highly competitive. many of our competitors are substantially larger than us and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources, more long-standing relationships, broader product offerings and other advantages. some of our competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us.  additionally, in response to the recent financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the u.s. government established programs such as the legacy securities public-private investment program (ppip), which are designed, in part, to restart the market for certain of our target investments.  the establishment of these or similar programs may result in increased competition for attractive opportunities in our target investments.  it is also possible that our competitors may successfully utilize these programs, which would provide them with attractive debt and equity capital funding from the u.s. government.  as a result of this competition, we may not be able to purchase or originate our target investments at attractive yields, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.     18 table of contents   risks related to our business   in general, changes in market conditions could further adversely and materially affect our business and the value of our capital stock could be negatively impacted.   risk is an inherent part of our business, which, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings. our business is materially affected by a variety of industry and economic factors, including:     · conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally;     · changes in interest rates and prepayment rates;     · actions taken by the u.s. federal reserve and the u.s. treasury;     · changes in laws and regulations and industry practices;     · actions taken by ratings agencies with respect to the u.s.’s credit rating; and     · other market developments.   in recent years and months, the conditions in the u.s. and global financial markets have changed suddenly and negatively and may continue to change adversely during 2012 and in future periods.  in response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and the financial markets, governments, regulators and central banks in the united states and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence.  future government, legislative or regulatory actions, among the other factors discussed above, could materially adversely affect our business in many ways.   the downgrade of the credit ratings of the united states and certain european countries and any future downgrades of the credit ratings united states and certain european countries may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   on august 5, 2011, standard & poor’s downgraded the u.s.’s credit rating for the first time in history. because fannie mae and freddie mac are in conservatorship of the u.s. government, downgrades to the u.s.’s credit rating could impact the credit risk associated with agency-backed mbs and, therefore, decrease the value of the agency-backed mbs in our portfolio.  in addition, the downgrade of the u.s. government’s credit rating and the credit ratings of certain european countries has created broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which has weighed heavily on the global banking system.  as a result, the recent downgrade of the u.s.’s credit rating and the credit ratings of certain european countries and any future downgrades of the credit ratings of the united states and certain european countries may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   the voting power of our principal shareholders and other executive officers, directors and nominees may result in corporate action with which you do not agree and may discourage third party acquisitions of our company and prevent our shareholders from receiving any premium above market price for their shares.   eric f. billings has significant influence over our operations through his ownership of our common stock, which, as of january 31, 2012, represents approximately 17.6% of the total voting power of our common stock. in addition, mr. billings serves as chairman of our board of directors and as our chief executive officer. as of january 31, 2012, mr. billings and all of our other executive officers, directors and nominees, as a group, control approximately 21.0% of our total voting power. the extent of the influence that mr. billings and our other officers, directors and nominees have over us may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of our company and may preclude holders of our common stock from receiving any premium above market price for their shares that may be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of our company without the approval of mr. billings. mr. billings could have interests that are different than those of our other investors and could take or influence actions with which our other investors disagree.   our rights plan could inhibit a change in our control and we may not be successful in protecting our anticipated tax benefits.   in june 2009, our board of directors implemented a rights plan in an effort to protect against a possible limitation on our ability to use our nols, ncls and built-in losses by dissuading investors from aggregating ownership of our class a common stock and triggering an “ownership change” for purposes of sections 382 and 383 of the code. the rights plan may not be successful in preventing an “ownership change” within the meaning of sections 382 and 383 of the code, and we may lose all or most of the anticipated tax benefits associated with our prior losses. under the terms of the rights plan, in general, if a person or group acquires or commences a tender or exchange offer for beneficial ownership of 4.9% or more of the outstanding shares of our class a common stock upon a determination by our board of directors (an acquiring person), all of our other class a and class b common shareholders will have the right to purchase securities from us at a discount to such securities’ fair market value, thus causing substantial dilution to the acquiring person. the rights plan may have the effect of inhibiting or impeding a change in control not approved by our board of directors and, notwithstanding its purpose, could adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our common stock in connection with such a transaction. in addition, because our board of directors can prevent the rights plan from operating, in the event our board of directors approves of an acquiring person, the rights plan gives our board of directors significant discretion over whether a potential acquirer’s efforts to acquire a large interest in us will be successful. consequently, the rights plan may not succeed in protecting anticipated tax benefits and could impede transactions that would otherwise benefit our shareholders.   the trading price of our class a common stock may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control.   any negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects for our business or the types of assets in which we invest could depress our stock price regardless of our results. the following factors, among others, could contribute to the volatility of the price of our class a common stock:     19 table of contents     · actual or unanticipated variations in our quarterly results;     · changes in our financial estimates by securities analysts;     · conditions or trends affecting companies that make investments similar to ours;     · changes in interest rate environments and the mortgage market that cause our borrowing costs to increase, our reported yields on our mbs portfolio to decrease or that cause the value of our mbs portfolio to decrease;     · changes in the market valuations of the securities in our mbs portfolio and other principal investments;     · negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects of investment or financial services companies;     · changes in the regulatory environment in which our business operates;     · dilution resulting from new equity issuances or the conversion of class b common stock into class a common stock;     · effects of litigation and contractual claims against us, our officers and our directors, including the potential settlement and litigation of such claims;     · general economic conditions such as a recession, or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations; and     · additions or departures of our key personnel.   many of these factors are beyond our control.   we may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results.   our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the market value of the mbs we acquire, prepayment rates and changes in interest rates. as a result, we may fail to meet profitability or dividend expectations which could negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.   we cannot assure you that we will be able to pay dividends in the future.   pursuant to our variable dividend policy, our board of directors, in its sole discretion, reinstated the payment of a cash dividend during 2010.  however, there can be no assurances that they will continue to do so.  the amount and timing of any distributions we may make is in the sole discretion of our board of directors.   the pending sec investigation could require significant management time and attention, result in significant legal expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   as described in this annual report on form 10-k under “item 3—legal proceedings,” we received a “wells notice” (the “notice”) from the staff of the sec on january 26, 2012 indicating that the staff is considering recommending that the sec bring a civil injunctive action or institute a public administrative proceeding alleging violations of the federal securities laws.   we understand that the staff is considering the recommendation based on their belief that disclosures in the offering materials for an mbs offering sponsored in 2007 by a former non-broker-dealer subsidiary of ours may have included material misstatements and/or omitted material information regarding the collateral for the securities issued.  the notice is not a formal allegation nor a finding of wrongdoing, and we have been cooperating with the sec in this inquiry.  in accordance with sec procedures, we will have an opportunity to present our response to the notice that an action is not warranted before any formal decision is made on an enforcement proceeding.  we understand that mr. brian bowers, our chief investment officer and portfolio manager, received a similar notice and that a former employee of our former subsidiary has also received a notice, in each case relating to the same offering.  we understand that the sec could seek various remedies, if they bring an enforcement proceeding, including but not limited to injunctive relief, disgorgement, civil penalties, and, in the case of mr. bowers, a bar from serving as a director or officer of a public company.  we disagree with the staff and intend to provide a written submission setting forth reasons why a formal proceeding should not be authorized by the sec.  we cannot predict whether or not any proceedings might be initiated, the amount of any claims that might be asserted or remedies that might be sought by the sec, or the ultimate outcome of any proceedings that might be initiated.    the conduct and resolution of the sec investigation could be time-consuming, expensive and distracting to the conduct of our business and to our management.  in the event that the investigation results in an adversarial action or proceeding being brought against us or any of our current or former officers or directors, our business (including our ability to complete financing transactions), and the trading price of our class a common stock, may be adversely affected.  additionally, if the sec investigation continues for a prolonged period of time, it may have the same impact regardless of the ultimate outcome of the investigation.   litigation involving our company could result in significant legal expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   as described under “item 3—legal proceedings” in this annual report on form 10-k, we are currently, may in the future become, subject to litigation. some of these claims may result in significant defense costs and potentially significant judgments against us, some of which are not, or cannot be, insured against.  we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, and cannot estimate the likelihood or potential dollar amount of any adverse results.  we may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies.  as a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments, if any, may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition.  in the event of an adverse judgment in any action or proceeding, we may be required to pay damages or penalties, or other remedies may be imposed upon us, which could have a material adverse impact upon our financial position, results of operations and cash flows and could also cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and prospects.     20 table of contents   indemnification obligations to certain of our current and former directors and officers may increase the costs to us of legal proceedings involving our company.   our charter contains a provision that limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the criminal law or any federal or state securities law.  our charter also requires us to indemnify our directors and officers in connection with any liability incurred by them in connection with any action or proceeding (including any action by us or in our right) to which they are or may be made a party by reason of their service in those or other capacities if the conduct in question was in our best interests and the person was acting on our behalf or performing services for us, unless the person engaged in willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the criminal law.  the virginia stock corporation act requires a corporation (unless its charter provides otherwise, which our charter does not) to indemnify a director or officer who has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any proceeding to which he is made a party by reason of his service in that capacity.   in addition, in the past, we have entered into indemnification agreements with certain of our current and former directors and officers under which we are generally required to indemnify them against liability incurred by them in connection with any action or proceeding to which they are or may be made a party by reason of their service in those or other capacities, if the conduct in question was in our best interests and the person was conducting themselves in good faith (subject to certain exceptions, including liabilities arising from willful misconduct, a knowing violation of the criminal law or receipt of an improper benefit).   in the future we may be the subject of indemnification assertions under our charter, virginia law or these indemnification agreements by our current and former directors and officers who are or may become party to any action or proceeding, including the sec investigation and litigation proceeding described in this annual report on form 10-k under “item 3—legal proceedings.”  we maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance policies that may limit our exposure and enable us to recover a portion of any amounts paid with respect to such obligations.  however, if our coverage under these policies is reduced, denied, eliminated or otherwise not available to us, our potential financial exposure would be increased.  the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification obligations could be significant.  amounts paid pursuant to our indemnification obligations could adversely affect our financial results and the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, have resulted in future material misstatements in our financial statements and required us to restate our financial results.   our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in rule 13a-15(f) under the exchange act.  as disclosed in “item 9a—controls and procedures” in this annual report on form 10-k, a material weakness was identified in our internal control over financial reporting related to our application of generally accepted accounting principles (gaap) related to asc 310-30, loans and debt securities acquired with deteriorated credit quality, in connection with our private-label mbs.  specifically, in certain circumstances, our policies and procedures did not consistently increase accretion rates on investment securities when the timing and amount of cash flows received and expected to be collected increased from the expectations at purchase.  a material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement to the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.   our analysis of these errors determined that no previously-issued financial statements were materially misstated and the cumulative effect of the errors was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011. the cumulative impact of these adjustments over the three-year period ended december 31, 2011 resulted in a net decrease of $55 thousand in pre-tax net income and net income, which reflected an increase in interest income of $544 thousand and a decrease in investment gain of $599 thousand.  these adjustments did not impact cash received or management’s expected performance of the related securities.   upon identification of the control deficiency described above, our management updated its policies and procedures to ensure that accretion rates are increased in accordance with gaap. under the revised accounting policies, we may recognize higher non-cash interest income over the security’s holding period and may not realize the level of interest income recognized using the higher accretion rates.  in addition, we may be subject to more frequent and higher non-cash other-than-temporary-impairment charges than actual losses realized on the security as a result.   as a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of december 31, 2011 based on criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission in internal control—an integrated framework.  our management believes that its remediation actions have remediated the material weakness.   loss of our exclusion from regulation as an investment company under the 1940 act would adversely affect us and may reduce the market price of our shares.   we rely on section 3(c)(5)(c) for our exclusion from the registration requirements of the 1940 act. this provision requires that 55% of our assets, on an unconsolidated basis, consist of qualifying assets, such as agency whole pool certificates and 80% of our assets, on an unconsolidated basis, consist of qualifying assets or real estate-related assets. we will need to ensure not only that we qualify for an exclusion or exemption from regulation under the 1940 act, but also that each of our subsidiaries qualifies for such an exclusion or exemption. we intend to maintain our exclusion by monitoring the value of our interests in our subsidiaries. we may not be successful in this regard.   on september 1, 2011, the sec issued a concept release (no. ic-29778; file no. sw7-34-11, companies engaged in the business of acquiring mortgages and mortgage-related instruments) pursuant to which it is reviewing whether certain companies that invest in mbs and rely on the exemption from registration under section 3(c)(5)(c) of the 1940 act (such as our company) should continue to be allowed to rely on such exemption from registration.   if we fail to maintain our exclusion and another exclusion or exemption is not available, we may be required to register as an investment company, or we may be required to acquire or dispose of assets in order to meet our exemption. any such asset acquisitions or dispositions may include assets that we would not acquire or dispose of in the ordinary course of business, may be at unfavorable prices and result in a decline in the price of our class a common stock. if we are required to register under the 1940 act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the 1940 act), and portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. accordingly, registration under the 1940 act could limit our ability to follow our current investment and financing strategies and result in a decline in the price of our class a common stock.   rapid changes in the values of our investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our exemption from the 1940 act.   changes in the market value or income potential of certain of our investments may prevent us from maintaining our exemption from the 1940 act.  we may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the 1940 act requirements, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.     21 table of contents   we face competition for personnel which could adversely affect our business and in turn negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.   we are dependent on the highly-skilled, and often highly-specialized, individuals we employ. retention of specialists to manage our portfolio is particularly important to our prospects. competition for the recruiting and retention of employees may increase elements of our compensation costs. we may not be able to recruit and hire new employees with our desired qualifications in a timely manner. our incentives may be insufficient to recruit and retain our employees. increased compensation costs could adversely affect the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could materially and adversely affect our future operating results.   we are dependent upon a small number of key senior professionals and loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our financial results which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.   we generally do not have employment agreements with our senior officers and other key professionals.  we cannot guarantee that we will continue to have access to members of our senior management team or other key professionals.  the loss of any members of our senior management and other key professionals could materially and adversely affect our operating results.  as described in this annual report on form 10-k under “item 3—legal proceedings,” both we and brian bowers, who serves as our chief investment officer and portfolio manager, have received “wells notices” from the staff of the sec indicating that the staff is considering recommending that the sec bring a civil injunctive action or institute a public administrative proceeding alleging violations of the federal securities laws. we understand that the sec could seek to bar mr. bowers from serving as a director or officer of a public company.  it is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of this matter, including whether or not any proceedings might be initiated, remedies that might be sought by the sec, or the ultimate outcome of any proceedings that might be initiated.     we are highly dependent upon communications and information systems operated by third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.   our business is highly dependent upon communications and information systems that allow us to monitor, value, buy, sell, finance and hedge our investments.  these systems are primarily operated by third parties and, as a result, we have limited ability to ensure their continued operation.  furthermore, in the event of systems failure or interruption, we will have limited ability to affect the timing and success of systems restoration.  any failure or interruption of our systems or third-party trading or information systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including mbs trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.   if we issue debt securities or other securities registered pursuant to our shelf registration statement, our operations may be restricted and we will be exposed to additional risk.   if we decide to issue debt securities in the future, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. additionally, any convertible or exchangeable or other securities registered pursuant to our shelf registration statement that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our class a common stock.  we, and indirectly our shareholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities.  holders of debt securities may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to, the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments, and rights to approve the sale of assets.  such additional restrictive covenants and operating restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders.   tax risks of our business and structure   our ability to use nol carry-forwards and ncl carry-forwards to reduce our taxable income may be limited.   we revoked our status as a reit effective as of january 1, 2009, in part to maximize the use of potential tax benefits flowing from our existing nols or ncls and certain other tax attributes. we must have taxable income or gains to benefit from theses nols, ncls and certain other tax attributes. although we believe that a significant portion of our nols will be utilized to offset the taxable income, no assurance can be provided that we will have taxable income or gains in the future to apply against our remaining nols and ncls.     22 table of contents   in addition, our nol and ncl carry-forwards may be limited by sections 382 and 383 of the code if we experience an “ownership change.” in general, an “ownership change” occurs if 5% shareholders increase their collective ownership of the aggregate amount of the outstanding shares of our company by more than 50 percentage points looking back over the relevant testing period. if an ownership change occurs, our ability to use our nols, ncls and certain recognized built-in losses to reduce our taxable income in a future year would be limited to a section 382 limitation equal to the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the ownership change. the long-term tax-exempt rate for february 2012 is 3.55%. in the event of an ownership change, nols and ncls that exceed the section 382 limitation in any year will continue to be allowed as carry-forwards for the remainder of the carry-forward period and such losses can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carry-forward period subject to the section 382 limitation in each year. however, if the carry-forward period for any nol or ncl were to expire before that loss had been fully utilized, the unused portion of that loss would be lost. the carry-forward period for nols is 20 years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the nols were incurred, and the carry-forward period for ncl is five years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the ncl were incurred. our use of new nols or ncls arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected by the section 382 limitation (unless there were another ownership change after those new losses arose).   on june 1, 2009, our board of directors adopted the rights plan in an effort to protect against the occurrence of an ownership change. the rights plan is intended to act as a deterrent to any person or group acquiring 4.9% or more of our outstanding class a common stock without the approval of our board of directors. shareholders who own 4.9% or more of our outstanding class a common stock as of the close of business on june 5, 2009 will not trigger the rights plan so long as they do not (i) acquire any additional shares of class a common stock or (ii) fall under 4.9% ownership of class a common stock and then re-acquire additional shares so that they own 4.9% or more of the class a common stock. the rights plan does not exempt any future acquisitions of class a common stock by such persons. any rights held by an acquiring person are void and may not be exercised. no person shall be an acquiring person unless our board of directors shall have affirmatively determined, in its sole and absolute discretion, within ten (10) business days (or such later time as the board of directors may determine) after such person has otherwise met the requirements of becoming an acquiring person, that such person shall be an acquiring person. the rights plan, however, does not protect against all transactions that could cause an ownership change, such as dispositions by existing 5% shareholders and transactions in our class b common stock. the rights plan was ratified by the shareholders in june 2010.   based on our knowledge of our stock ownership, we do not believe that an ownership change has occurred since our losses were generated. accordingly, we believe that at the current time there is no annual limitation imposed on our use of our nols and ncls to reduce future taxable income. the determination of whether an ownership change has occurred or will occur is complicated and depends on changes in percentage stock ownership among shareholders. other than the rights plan, there are currently no restrictions on the transfer of our stock that would discourage or prevent transactions that could cause an ownership change, although we may adopt such restrictions in the future. as discussed above, the rights plan is intended to discourage transactions that could cause an ownership change. the rights plan, however, does not protect against all transactions that could cause an ownership change. in addition, we have not obtained, and currently do not plan to obtain, a ruling from the internal revenue service, regarding our conclusion as to whether our losses are subject to any such limitations. furthermore, we may decide in the future that it is necessary or in our interest to take certain actions that could result in an ownership change. therefore, no assurance can be provided as to whether an ownership change has occurred or will occur in the future.   preserving the ability to use our nols and ncls may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities.   limitations imposed by sections 382 and 383 of the code may discourage us from, among other things, redeeming our stock or issuing additional stock to raise capital or to acquire businesses or assets. accordingly, our desire to preserve our nols and ncls may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities.   item  1b. unresolved