item 1a. risk factors investing in our company involves various risks, including the risk that you might lose your entire investment. our results of operations depend upon many factors including our ability to implement our business strategy, the availability of opportunities to acquire assets, the level and volatility of interest rates, the cost and availability of short- and long-term credit, financial market conditions and general economic conditions. the following discussion concerns the material risks associated with our business. these risks are interrelated, and you should consider them as a whole. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also materially and adversely affect the value of our capital stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. in connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report on form 10-k, including these risk factors and elsewhere, you should carefully review the section entitled “cautionary statement about forward-looking information.”     10 table of contents   risks related to our principal investing activities continued adverse developments in the residential mortgage market may adversely affect the value of our securities and our ability to borrow against our security assets.   since mid-2007, the residential mortgage market in the united states has experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions that may adversely affect the performance and market value of the mbs we acquire.  securities backed by residential mortgage loans originated in 2006 and 2007 have experienced a higher and earlier than expected rate of delinquencies.  additionally, mbs issued in earlier periods may not be performing as expected.  many mbs have been downgraded by the rating agencies in recent years and the rating agencies may in the future downgrade mbs.  as a result, the market for these securities may be adversely affected for a significant period of time.   a continued decline or an extended flattening of those values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, particularly with respect to second homes and investor properties and with respect to any residential mortgage loans whose aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate liens) are close to or greater than the related property values. current market conditions may impair borrowers’ ability to refinance or sell their properties, which may contribute to higher delinquency, default rates and extended term of mortgages.  borrowers seeking to avoid increased monthly payments by refinancing may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparably low interest rates.  a continued decline in housing prices may also leave borrowers with insufficient equity in their homes to permit them to refinance.  borrowers who intended to sell their homes or refinance their existing mortgage loans on or before the expiration of the fixed-rate periods on their mortgage loans may find that they cannot sell their property for an amount equal to or greater than the unpaid principal balance of their loans or obtain new financing at lower rates. in addition, some mortgage loans may include prepayment premiums that may further inhibit refinancing.   servicers of residential mortgage loans also have the authority to modify mortgage loans that are in default, or for which default is reasonably foreseeable, if such modifications are in the best interests of the holders of the mortgage securities and such modifications are done in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreements. loan modifications are more likely to be used when borrowers are less able to refinance or sell their homes due to market conditions, and when the potential recovery from a foreclosure is reduced due to lower property values. a significant number of loan modifications could result in a significant reduction in cash flows to the holders of the mortgage securities on an ongoing basis.   various federal, state and local regulatory authorities have taken or proposed actions that could hinder the ability of the servicer to foreclose promptly on defaulted mortgage loans.  any such actions may adversely affect the performance of the loans and the yield on and value of the mortgage securities.   investors should consider that the general market conditions discussed above may adversely affect the market value of the securities in our mbs portfolio and make it difficult or more expensive for us to borrow against those securities.   the conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between fannie mae and freddie mac and the federal government, may adversely affect our business.   the agency-backed mbs in which we invest depend on a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities.  the interest and principal payments we receive on the agency-backed mbs that we acquire are guaranteed by fannie mae or freddie mac.  fannie mae and freddie mac are u.s. government-sponsored entities (gses), but their guarantees are not backed by the full faith and credit of the u.s. government.   since 2007, fannie mae and freddie mac have reported substantial losses and a need for substantial amounts of additional capital. in response to the deteriorating financial condition of fannie mae and freddie mac and the credit market disruption several years ago, congress and the u.s. treasury have undertaken a series of actions to stabilize these gses and the financial markets generally. the housing and economic recovery act was signed into law on july 30, 2008, and it established the fhfa. on september 7, 2008, the fhfa placed fannie mae and freddie mac into conservatorship, which is a statutory process pursuant to which the fhfa operates fannie mae and freddie mac in an effort to stabilize the entities. the fhfa, together with the u.s. treasury and the u.s. federal reserve, has also undertaken actions designed to boost investor confidence in fannie mae and freddie mac, support the availability of mortgage financing and protect taxpayers. in addition, the u.s. treasury has taken steps to capitalize and provide financing to fannie mae and freddie mac and agreed to purchase direct obligations and agency-backed mbs issued or guaranteed by fannie mae or freddie mac.   shortly after fannie mae and freddie mac were placed in federal conservatorship, the secretary of the u.s. treasury, in announcing the actions, noted that the guarantee structure of fannie mae and freddie mac required examination and that changes in the structures of the entities were necessary to reduce risk to the financial system. in february 2011, the u.s. treasury and the department of housing and urban development released a white paper titled “reforming america’s housing finance market,” or the housing report, in which they proposed to reduce or eliminate the role of gses in mortgage financing. the housing report calls for phasing in increased pricing of fannie mae and freddie mac guarantees to help level the playing field for the private sector to take back market share, reducing conforming loan limits by allowing the temporary increase in fannie mae’s and freddie mac’s conforming loan limits to reset as scheduled on october 1, 2011 to the lower levels set in the housing and economic recovery act of 2008 and continuing to wind down fannie mae’s and freddie mac’s investment portfolio at an annual rate of no less than 10% per year. the future roles of fannie mae and freddie mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be eliminated or considerably limited relative to historical measurements. any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by fannie mae and freddie mac could redefine what constitutes agency-backed mbs, have broad adverse market implications and negatively impact us.     11 table of contents   the problems faced by fannie mae and freddie mac resulting in their being placed into federal conservatorship have stirred debate among some federal policy makers regarding the continued role of the u.s. government in providing liquidity for the residential mortgage market. if federal policy makers decide that the u.s. government’s role in providing liquidity for the residential mortgage market should be reduced or eliminated, each of fannie mae and freddie mac could be dissolved and the u.s. government could decide to stop providing liquidity support of any kind to the mortgage market. if fannie mae or freddie mac were eliminated, or their structures were to change radically, we may not be able to acquire agency-backed mbs from these companies, which could drastically reduce the amount and type of agency-backed mbs available for investment, thereby increasing the price of these assets. additionally, the current credit support provided by the u.s. treasury to fannie mae and freddie mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rate we receive from agency-backed mbs, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio and our financing costs. additionally, the u.s. government could elect to stop providing credit support of any kind to the mortgage market. if any of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected.   as indicated above, recent legislation has changed the relationship between fannie mae and freddie mac and the u.s. government and requires fannie mae and freddie mac to reduce the amount of mortgage loans they own or the amount of agency-backed mbs for which they provide guarantees. the effect of the actions taken by the u.s. government remains uncertain. furthermore, the scope and nature of the actions that the u.s. government will ultimately undertake are unknown and will continue to evolve. future legislation could further change the relationship between fannie mae and freddie mac and the u.s. government and could also nationalize or eliminate these gses entirely. any law affecting these gses may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by fannie mae or freddie mac. as a result, such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and the spreads at which they trade. all of the foregoing could materially adversely affect the pricing, supply, liquidity and value of our target assets and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. to the extent that we invest in agency-backed mbs that are guaranteed by fannie mae and freddie mac, we are subject to the risk that these gses may not be fully able to satisfy their guarantee obligations or that these guarantee obligations may be repudiated, which would adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and our ability to sell or finance these securities.   all the agency-backed mbs in which we invest depend on a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities. the interest and principal payments we receive on the agency-backed mbs that we acquire are guaranteed by fannie mae or freddie mac, but are not guaranteed by the u.s. government.  to the extent these gses are not able to fully satisfy their guarantee obligations or that these guarantee obligations are repudiated, the value of our investment portfolio and our ability to sell or finance these securities would be adversely affected.   the downgrade of the u.s. credit rating, failure to avoid the “fiscal cliff” in the u.s., and the economic crisis in europe could negatively impact our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.   recent u.s. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns and the possibility that u.s. lawmakers may be unable to avoid the “fiscal cliff,” together with signs of deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in europe, have increased the possibility of additional credit-rating downgrades and economic slowdowns, or a recession in the u.s. although u.s. lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling in 2011, standard & poor’s ratings services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the u.s. from “aaa” to “aa+” in august 2011. the impact of any further downgrades to the u.s. government’s sovereign credit rating or its perceived creditworthiness could adversely affect the u.s. and global financial markets and economic conditions. in addition, some economists predict the u.s. economy could fall into recession if the u.s. government fails to achieve a plan to avoid the “fiscal cliff,” which generally refers to certain tax increases and automatic spending cuts that were scheduled to become effective at the end of 2012. the u.s. government adopted legislation in december 2012 to address the planned tax increases, but deferred many of the automatic spending cuts for two months.  in january 2013, the u.s. government adopted legislation to suspend the debt ceiling for three months. further, moody’s and fitch have each warned that they may downgrade the u.s. government’s rating if the federal debt is not stabilized. if the u.s.’s credit rating were downgraded it would likely impact the credit risk associated with agency rmbs in our portfolio. a downgrade of the u.s. government’s credit rating or a default by the u.s. government to satisfy its debt obligations likely would create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which would weigh heavily on the global banking system. absent further quantitative easing by the u.s. federal reserve, these developments, along with the european sovereign debt crisis, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise and a reduction in the availability of credit, which may negatively impact the value of the assets in our portfolio, our net income, liquidity and our ability to finance our assets on favorable terms.     12 table of contents market conditions and actions by governmental authorities may upset the historical relationship between interest rate changes and prepayment trends, which would make it more difficult for us to analyze our investment portfolio.   our success depends on our ability to analyze the relationship of changing interest rates on prepayments of the mortgage loans that underlie our mbs.  changes in interest rates and prepayments affect the market price of mbs that we intend to purchase and any mbs that we hold at a given time. as part of our overall portfolio risk management, we analyze interest rate changes and prepayment trends separately and collectively to assess their effects on our investment portfolio. in conducting our analysis, we depend on certain assumptions based upon historical trends with respect to the relationship between interest rates and prepayments under normal market conditions.  the homeowner affordability and stability plan (hasp) announced by the u.s. treasury in february 2009, the expansion of the home affordable refinance program (harp) announced by the federal housing finance agency in october 2011, and the u.s. federal reserve’s announced plan to purchase $45 billion of long-term treasury bonds per month, as described above, have caused, and could continue to cause, an increase in prepayment rates.  if the dislocations in the residential mortgage market, recent or future government actions or other developments change the way that prepayment trends have historically responded to interest rate changes, our ability to (i) assess the market value of our investment portfolio, (ii) implement our hedging strategies and (iii) implement techniques to reduce our prepayment rate volatility would be significantly affected.  if we are unable to accurately forecast interest and prepayment rates, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.   mortgage loan modification programs, future legislative action and changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing a mortgage with fannie mae, freddie mac or ginnie mae may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the mbs in which we invest.   during the second half of 2008, the u.s. government, through the federal housing administration (fha) and the federal deposit insurance corporation (fdic), commenced implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures, including the hope for homeowners act of 2008, which allows certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into fha-insured loans.  in addition, fannie mae and freddie mac instituted programs designed to assist distressed homeowners avoid foreclosure.  these and any future programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans.     in addition, in february 2009 the u.s. treasury announced hasp, which is a multi-faceted plan intended to prevent residential mortgage foreclosures by, among other things:     · allowing certain homeowners whose homes are encumbered by fannie mae or freddie mac conforming mortgages to refinance those mortgages into lower interest rate mortgages with either fannie mae or freddie mac;     · creating the homeowner stability initiative, which is intended to utilize various incentives for banks and mortgage servicers to modify residential mortgage loans with the goal of reducing monthly mortgage principal and interest payments for certain qualified homeowners; and     · allowing judicial modifications of fannie mae and freddie mac conforming residential mortgage loans during bankruptcy proceedings.   in september 2011, the white house announced a major plan to allow some of the 11 million homeowners who then owed more on their mortgages than their homes were worth to refinance.  in october 2011, the fhfa announced proposed changes to harp that would expand access to refinancing for qualified individuals and families whose homes have lost value, among other things, increasing the harp loan-to-value ratio above 125%.  however, this would only apply to mortgages guaranteed by the gses.  there are many challenging issues to this proposal, notably the question as to whether a loan with a loan-to-value ratio of 125% qualifies as a mortgage or an unsecured consumer loan.  the chances of this initiative’s success have created additional uncertainty in the mbs market, particularly with respect to possible increases in prepayment rates.   on january 4, 2012, the u.s. federal reserve issued a white paper outlining additional ideas with regard to refinancings and loan modifications.  it is likely that loan modifications would result in increased prepayments on agency-backed mbs.  see “risks to our business—an increase in prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our mbs purchased at a premium, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders” for information relating to the impact of prepayments on our business.  these initiatives, any loan modification programs and future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans, as well as changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing a mortgage with fannie mae, freddie mac or ginnie mae may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our mbs.     13 table of contents   declines in the market values of the securities in our mbs portfolio may adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   a substantial portion of our assets are classified for accounting purposes either as “trading securities” or as “available-for-sale.” changes in the market values of those assets will be directly charged or credited to shareholders’ equity. as a result, a decline in value may reduce the book value of our assets. moreover, if the decline in value of an available-for-sale security is other-than-temporary, such decline will reduce earnings, as will a decline in the value of our securities classified as trading securities for accounting purposes.   a decline in the market value of the securities in our mbs portfolio may adversely affect us particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. if the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan. if we were unable to post the additional collateral, we would have to sell the assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. a reduction in credit available may reduce our earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to shareholders.     our mortgage investing strategy involves leverage, which could adversely affect our operations and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   we may reduce the amount of equity capital we have invested in agency-backed mbs or other mortgage-backed assets by funding a portion of those acquisitions with repurchase agreements, commercial paper (to the extent commercial paper is available on favorable terms or at all) or other borrowing arrangements.  to the extent that revenue derived from those assets exceeds our interest expense, hedging expense and other costs of the financing, our net income will be greater than if we had not borrowed funds and had not invested in the assets. conversely, if the revenue from our mbs and other mortgage-backed assets does not sufficiently cover the interest expense, hedging expense and other costs of the financing, our net income will be less or our net loss will be greater than if we had not borrowed funds.  because of the credit and interest rate risks inherent in our strategy, we closely monitor the leverage (debt-to-equity ratio) of our mbs portfolio.  from time to time, our leverage ratio may increase or decrease due to several factors, including changes in the value of the underlying portfolio holdings and the timing and amount of acquisitions. our lenders may require us to provide additional collateral, especially when the market values for our investments decline, which may restrict us from leveraging our assets as fully as desired, and reduce our liquidity, earnings and cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   we currently use repurchase agreements to finance our investments in mbs.  our repurchase agreements allow the lenders, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions.  if the market value of the securities pledged or sold by us to a funding source declines in value, we may be required by the lender to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced on minimal notice, which is known as a margin call.  posting additional collateral will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets, which could adversely affect our business. additionally, in order to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur further losses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may impair our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.  in the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy these margin calls, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness, increase our borrowing rates, liquidate our collateral and terminate our ability to borrow.  such a situation would likely result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and possibly necessitate a filing for protection under the bankruptcy code. if we fail to maintain adequate repurchase agreement financing or to renew or replace existing borrowings upon maturity, we will be limited in our ability to implement our principal investing activities, which will adversely affect our results of operations and may, in turn, negatively affect the market value of our class a common stock and our ability to make dividends to our shareholders.   we depend upon repurchase agreement financing to purchase our target assets and reach our target leverage ratio. we cannot assure you that sufficient repurchase agreement financing will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us.  investors and financial institutions that lend in the securities repurchase market have tightened lending standards and some have stopped lending entirely in the repurchase market in response to the difficulties and changed economic conditions that have materially adversely affected the mbs market.   if we fail to obtain adequate funding or to renew or replace existing funding upon maturity, we will be limited in our ability to implement our business strategy, which will adversely affect our results of operations and may, in turn, negatively affect the market value of our class a common stock and our ability to make dividends to our shareholders.     14 table of contents   our use of repurchase agreements may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or any of our lenders file for bankruptcy, which may make it difficult for us to recover our collateral.   our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay if we file for bankruptcy.  furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that any of our lenders file for bankruptcy.  thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either our lenders or us. in addition, if the lender is a broker or dealer subject to the securities investor protection act of 1970 or an insured depository institution subject to the federal deposit insurance act, our ability to exercise our rights to recover our investment under a repurchase agreement or to be compensated for any damages resulting from the lender’s insolvency may be further limited by those statutes. if the lending institution under one or more of our repurchase agreements defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the agreement term, we will lose money on our repurchase transactions.   when we engage in a repurchase transaction, we initially sell securities to the transaction counterparty under a master repurchase agreement in exchange for cash from the counterparty.  the counterparty is obligated to resell the same securities back to us at the end of the term of the repurchase agreement, which typically is 30 to 90 days, but may be up to one year.  if the counterparty in a repurchase transaction defaults on its obligation to resell the securities back to us, we will incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming no change in the value of the securities).  losses incurred on our repurchase transactions would adversely affect our earnings and our cash available for distribution to our shareholders.     if we default on our obligations under our repurchase agreements, we may be unable to establish a suitable replacement facility on acceptable terms or at all.   if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase agreement, the counterparty may terminate the agreement and cease entering into any other repurchase agreements with us.  in that case, we would likely need to establish a replacement repurchase facility with another financial institution in order to continue to leverage our investment portfolio and carry out our investment strategy.  we may be unable to establish a suitable replacement repurchase facility on acceptable terms or at all. changes in interest rates and adverse market conditions could negatively affect the value of our mbs investments and increase the cost of our borrowings, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   we acquire indirect interests in mortgage loans by purchasing mbs and we currently intend to continue this strategy.  under a normal yield curve, an investment in mbs will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase.  in addition, net interest income could decrease if the yield curve becomes inverted or flat.  fannie mae or freddie mac guarantees of the agency-backed mbs we own do not protect us from declines in market value caused by changes in interest rates.  declines in market value may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   a significant risk associated with our portfolio of mortgage-related assets is the risk that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly.  if long-term rates were to increase significantly, the market value of these mbs would decline and the duration and weighted average life of the investments would increase. we could realize a loss in the future if the mbs were sold.  at the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the repurchase agreements we enter into in order to finance the purchase of mbs.   market values of mbs may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments and widening of credit spreads.  if the market values of our investments were to decline for any reason, the value of your investment in our capital stock could also decline.   limitations on our access to capital could impair our liquidity and our ability to conduct our business.   liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business.  failures of similar businesses have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity.  liquidity is of particular importance to our business and perceived liquidity issues may affect our clients’ and counterparties’ willingness to engage in transactions with us.  our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption, the payment of significant legal defense and indemnification costs, expenses, damages or settlement amounts, or an operational problem that affects us or third parties.  further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time or the market is experiencing significant volatility. our inability to maintain adequate liquidity would materially harm our business and operations.     15 table of contents   the nature of the securities we hold exposes us to concentrated credit risk that could reduce our earnings, dividends, cash flows and access to liquidity, and otherwise negatively affect our business.   our private-label mbs portfolio has concentrated risks with respect to residential real estate loans. in general, losses on an asset securing a residential real estate loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the owner of the property (i.e., the owner will first lose the equity invested in the property) and, thereafter, by mezzanine or preferred equity investors, if any, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, then by the first-loss holder, and then by holders of more senior securities. in the event the losses incurred upon default on the loan exceed any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and classes of securities junior to those in which we invest (if any), we may not be able to recover any or all of our investment in the securities we hold. in addition, if the underlying properties have been overvalued by the originating appraisal or if the values subsequently declined and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related private-label mbs, then the first-loss securities may suffer a total loss of principal, followed by losses on the second-loss and so on. any credit enhancement we may have with respect to our private-label mbs could be insufficient to protect us from a complete loss.   our due diligence of potential investments may not reveal all of the liabilities associated with those investments and may not reveal aspects of the investments which could lead to investment losses, and our ability to manage exposures to assets in which we have an indirect interest is limited.   before making certain acquisitions, we may undertake due diligence efforts with respect to various aspects of the acquisition, including investigating the strengths and weaknesses of the originator or issuer of the asset and, in the case of acquisitions of private-label mbs, verifying certain aspects of the underlying assets themselves as well as other factors and characteristics that may be material to the performance of the acquisition. in making the assessment and otherwise conducting due diligence, we rely on resources available to us and, in some cases, third party information. there can be no assurance that any due diligence process that we conduct will uncover relevant facts that could be determinative of whether or not an investment will be successful.   moreover, our ability to manage our exposures is significantly limited by contractual and other constraints of the securitization vehicle structures in which such assets are held.     the securities and loans we own are likely to lead to variable returns.   we actively manage the risks associated with acquiring, holding and disposing of mbs.  no amount of risk management or mitigation, however, can change the variable nature of the cash flows, fair values of, and financial results generated by these loans and securities.  changes in the credit performance or the prepayments on the loans underlying private-label mbs and changes in interest rates impact the cash flows on these securities, and the impact could be significant for our securities with concentrated risks.  changes in cash flows lead to changes in our return and also to potential variability in reported income.   the revenue recognized on our private-label mbs is based on an estimate of the yield over the remaining life of the asset.  thus, changes in our estimates of expected cash flow from an asset will result in changes in our reported earnings on that asset in the current reporting period.  we may be forced to recognize adverse changes in expected future cash flows as a current expense, further adding to earnings volatility.   changes in the fair values of our mbs may have various negative effects on us, including reduced earnings, increased earnings volatility and volatility in our book value.   fair values for our mbs can be volatile.  the fair values can change rapidly and significantly and changes can result from changes in interest rates, actual and perceived risk, supply, demand, and actual and projected cash flows and prepayments and credit performance.  a decrease in fair value may not necessarily be the result of deterioration in future cash flows.  a decrease in the fair value of mbs we own may result in a reduction in our book value due to the accounting standards we are required to apply.  reporting a low book value could have adverse effects even if that book value is not indicative of the actual value of our net investments in assets.  the adverse effects include the inability to meet or agree upon covenants with counterparties, to enter into derivative contracts or a reduction in the market price of our class a common stock.     16 table of contents   our investments are recorded at fair value based upon assumptions that are inherently subjective and involve a high degree of management judgment.  our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal.   our current portfolio investments are, and our future portfolio investments may be, in the form of securities that are not publicly traded.  the fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable.  in computing the fair values for mbs for which there are limited observable third-party trades, we make a number of market-based assumptions, including assumptions regarding future interest rates, prepayment rates, discount rates, credit loss rates, and the timing of credit losses.  these assumptions are inherently subjective and involve a high degree of management judgment, and our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a public market for these securities existed.  although we rely on our internal calculations to compute the fair value of securities we own, we also request and consider indications of value (marks) from third-party dealers to assist us in our valuation process.  the results of market disruptions over the past several years have generated fewer third-party data points for us to consider in connection with our estimates of the fair value of our securities than were available to us in the past.  our reported fair value may not reflect what a willing buyer would pay for those assets.  our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments is materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal.   credit ratings assigned to debt securities by the credit rating agencies may not accurately reflect the risks associated with those securities.   we make certain acquisition decisions after factoring in a series of data, including credit rating.  however, a credit rating may not accurately reflect the risks associated with a particular debt security.  rating agencies rate certain debt securities based upon their assessment of the safety of the receipt of principal and interest payments. rating agencies do not consider the risks of fluctuations in fair value or other factors that may influence the value of debt securities and, therefore, the assigned credit rating may not fully reflect the true risks of an investment in securities. also, rating agencies may fail to make timely adjustments to credit ratings based on available data or changes in economic outlook or may otherwise fail to make changes in credit ratings in response to subsequent events, so that our investments may be better or worse than the ratings indicate.   the assignment of an “investment grade” rating to a security by a rating agency does not mean that there is not credit risk associated with the security or that the risk of a credit loss with respect to such security is remote.  for example, a large number of mbs that were previously rated triple-a by one or more rating agencies have been downgraded, in many cases by several rating levels at one time. a downgrade in credit rating can materially adversely affect the fair value of a security.  our assessment of the quality of an investment that relies, in part, on that asset’s credit rating, may prove to be inaccurate and we may incur credit losses in excess of our initial expectations.   furthermore, credit rating agencies may change their methods of evaluating credit risk and determining ratings on mbs.  these changes may occur quickly and often. the market’s ability to understand and absorb these changes, and the impact to the securitization market in general, are difficult to predict.  such changes will have an impact on the amount of investment-grade and non-investment-grade securities that are created or placed on the market in the future.  a change in the amount of investment-grade and non-investment-grade securities that are created or placed on the market could materially adversely impact the value of the mbs in our portfolio and potentially limit or increase the value of mbs available for purchase in the future.     new assets we acquire may not generate yields as attractive as yields on our current assets, resulting in a decline in our earnings per share over time.   we believe the assets we acquire have the potential to generate attractive economic returns and gaap yields, but acquiring assets in an uncertain economic environment poses significant risks. potential cash flow and mark-to-market returns from new asset acquisitions could be negative, including both new assets that are backed by newly-originated loans, as well as new acquisitions that are backed by more seasoned assets that may experience higher than expected levels of delinquency and default. in order to maintain and grow our portfolio size and our earnings, we must reinvest in new assets a portion of the cash flows we receive from principal, interest, and sales. we receive monthly payments from many of our assets, consisting of principal and interest. principal payments reduce the size of our current portfolio and generate cash for us. we may also sell assets from time to time as part of our portfolio management and capital recycling strategies. if the assets we acquire in the future earn lower gaap yields than the assets we currently own, our reported earnings per share will likely decline over time as the older assets pay down, are called, or are sold.     17 table of contents   an increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our mortgage-related assets may adversely affect our profitability, which may reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   as our repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowing instruments mature, we must either enter into new repurchase agreements or sell a portion of our mortgage-related assets or other investment securities at times when we might not otherwise choose to do so.  lenders may seek to use a new maturity date as an opportune time to demand additional terms or increased collateral requirements that could be adverse to us and harm our operations.  moreover, current conditions in the credit markets may make it impracticable to enter into new repurchase agreements or other short-term facilities.  see “risks related to our business—in general, changes in market conditions could further adversely and materially affect our business and the value of our capital stock could be negatively impacted.”   we generally expect that the interest rates tied to our borrowings will adjust more rapidly than the interest rates tied to the assets in which we invest.  an increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to enter into new repurchase agreements would reduce the spread between our returns on our mortgage-related assets and the cost of our borrowings.  this change in interest rates would adversely affect our returns on our mortgage-related assets portfolio, which might reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   an increase in prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our mbs purchased at a premium, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   in the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their loans.  homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when interest rates decline.  furthermore, hasp, the u.s. federal reserve’s announced plan to purchase $45 billion of long-term treasury bonds per month as described below, and the expansion of harp have caused, and could continue to cause, an increase in prepayment rates.  when interest rates decline, owners of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates.  conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when interest rates increase.  consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates.  this volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our mortgage-based securities portfolio and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders.  fannie mae or freddie mac guarantees of principal and interest related to the agency-backed mbs we own do not protect us against prepayment risks. prepayments are generally reflected as a reduction of premium, which means that prepayments may result in recognition of loss in investment value for us.   hedging against interest rate exposure may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk and may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   we engage in certain hedging transactions to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates and therefore may expose our company to the risks associated with such transactions.  we have historically entered into and may enter into interest rate swap agreements, eurodollar or u.s. treasury futures or pursue other hedging strategies.  hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. however, we may establish other hedging positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions.  such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase.  moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price.   the success of our hedging transactions depends on our ability to accurately predict movements of interest rates and credit spreads.  therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions.  in addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged.  any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss.     we currently hedge against interest rate risk.  our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal prepayments, the type of mbs held, and other changing market conditions.  interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things:     · interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates;     · available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;     · the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability;     18 table of contents       · the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and       · the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay.   our hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders.   we may change our investment strategy, hedging strategy, asset allocation and operational policies without shareholder consent, which may result in riskier investments and adversely affect the market value of our class a common stock and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.   we may change our investment strategy, hedging strategy, asset allocation and operational policies at any time without the consent of our shareholders, which could result in our making investments or hedges that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and hedges described in this annual report on form 10-k. a change in our investment or hedging strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and real estate market fluctuations.  a change in our asset allocation could result in us making investments in instrument categories different from those described in this annual report on form 10-k.  our board of directors oversees our operational policies, including those with respect to our acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions or approves transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders.  operational policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our class a common stock and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.   our board of directors does not approve each of our investment decisions.   our board of directors oversees our operational policies and periodically reviews our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio.  however, our board of directors does not review all of our proposed investments.  in addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our board of directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by our management.  furthermore, transactions entered into or structured for us by our management may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our directors.   we operate in a highly-competitive market for investment opportunities, which could make it difficult for us to purchase or originate investments at attractive yields and thus have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   we gain access to investment opportunities only to the extent that they become known to us.  gaining access to investment opportunities is highly competitive. many of our competitors are substantially larger than us and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources, more long-standing relationships, broader product offerings and other advantages. some of our competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us.  additionally, in response to the recent financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the u.s. government established programs such as the legacy securities public-private investment program (ppip), which are designed, in part, to restart the market for certain of our target investments.  the establishment of these or similar programs may result in increased competition for attractive opportunities in our target investments.  it is also possible that our competitors may successfully utilize these programs, which would provide them with attractive debt and equity capital funding from the u.s. government.  as a result of this competition, we may not be able to purchase or originate our target investments at attractive yields, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. although the immediate impact of qe3 was an increase in agency-backed mbs prices, it is uncertain what effect qe3 and other recently announced governmental actions might have in the future on the price and liquidity of the securities in which we invest. however, the confluence of factors such as qe3 and further governmental efforts to increase home loan refinancing opportunities could simultaneously raise prices and increase prepayment activity, which could place downward pressure on our net interest margin. on september 13, 2012, the u.s. federal reserve announced a third round of quantitative easing (qe3), which is an open-ended program designed to expand the u.s. federal reserve’s holdings of long-term securities by purchasing an additional $40 billion of agency-backed mbs per month until key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate, show signs of improvement. when combined with programs to extend the average maturity of the u.s. federal reserve’s holdings of securities, known as “operation twist” and described below, and reinvest principal and interest payments from the u.s. federal reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency-backed mbs into agency-backed mbs, qe3 was expected to increase the u.s. federal reserve’s holdings of long-term securities by $85 billion each month through the end of 2012. the u.s. federal reserve also announced that it would keep the target range for the federal funds rate between zero and 0.25% through at least mid-2015, which is six months longer than previously expected.     19 table of contents   the u.s. federal reserve provided further guidance to the market in december 2012 by stating that it intended to keep the federal funds rate close to zero while the unemployment rate is above 6.5% and as long as inflation does not rise above 2.5%. in december 2012, the u.s. federal reserve also announced that it would initially begin buying $45 billion of long-term treasury bonds each month and noted that such amount may increase in the future. this bond purchase program will replace the former program known as “operation twist,” in which the u.s. federal reserve repurchased approximately $45 billion of long-term treasury bonds each month and sold approximately the same amount of short-term treasury bonds. the u.s. federal reserve expects these measures to put downward pressure on long-term interest rates. the immediate impact of the announcement of qe3 was an increase in agency-backed mbs prices. this effect was especially pronounced agency-backed mbs that the u.s. federal reserve is expected to target for acquisition under qe3. since the initial price spike, prices for all but the target securities have receded below the price levels that existed before the announcement of qe3. to the extent that the scope and effectiveness of government-sponsored refinancing programs increases, prepayments on our target securities could increase accordingly. the combination of higher prices and higher refinancing activity on our target securities could decrease our net interest margin and/or book value. to the extent qe3 decreases the liquidity in the market of our target securities, which has yet to be the case, we might not be able to acquire the securities we target or acquire them in the quantities we desire. we cannot predict the impact, if any, on our earnings or cash available for distribution to our stockholders of the fhfa's proposed revisions to fannie mae's, freddie mac's and ginnie mae's existing infrastructures to align the standards and practices of the three entities.   on february 21, 2012, the fhfa released its strategic plan for enterprise conservatorships, which set forth three goals for the next phase of the fannie mae and freddie mac conservatorships. these three goals are to (i) build a new infrastructure for the secondary mortgage market, (ii) gradually contract fannie mae and freddie mac's presence in the marketplace while simplifying and shrinking their operations, and (iii) maintain foreclosure prevention activities and credit availability for new and refinanced mortgages. on october 4, 2012, the fhfa released its white paper entitled building a new infrastructure for the secondary mortgage market, which proposed a new infrastructure for fannie mae and freddie mac that has two basic goals.   the first such goal is to replace the current, outdated infrastructures of fannie mae and freddie mac with a common, more efficient infrastructure that aligns the standards and practices of the two entities, beginning with core functions performed by both entities such as issuance, master servicing, bond administration, collateral management and data integration. the second goal is to establish an operating framework for fannie mae and freddie mac that is consistent with the progress of housing finance reform and encourages and accommodates the increased participation of private capital in assuming credit risk associated with the secondary mortgage market.   the fhfa recognizes that there are a number of impediments to their goals which may or may not be surmountable, such as the absence of any significant secondary mortgage market mechanisms beyond fannie mae, freddie mac and ginnie mae, and that their proposals are in the formative stages. as a result, it is unclear if the proposals will be enacted. if such proposals are enacted, it is unclear how closely what is enacted will resemble the proposals from the fhfa white paper or what the effects of the enactment will be in terms of our net asset value, earnings or cash available for distribution to our stockholders.   risks related to our business   in general, changes in market conditions could further adversely and materially affect our business and the value of our capital stock could be negatively impacted.   risk is an inherent part of our business, which, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings. our business is materially affected by a variety of industry and economic factors, including:     · conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally;     · changes in interest rates and prepayment rates;     · actions taken by the u.s. federal reserve and the u.s. treasury;     · changes in laws and regulations and industry practices;     · actions taken by ratings agencies with respect to the u.s.’s credit rating; and     · other market developments.   while there are signs of a recovery, the u.s. economy continues to be impacted by various global and domestic conditions and may continue to change adversely during 2013 and in future periods.  in response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and the financial markets, governments, regulators and central banks in the united states and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence.  future government, legislative or regulatory actions, among the other factors discussed above, could materially adversely affect our business in many ways.     20 table of contents   the voting power of our principal shareholders and other executive officers, directors and nominees may result in corporate action with which you do not agree and may discourage third party acquisitions of our company and prevent our shareholders from receiving any premium above market price for their shares.   eric f. billings has significant influence over our operations through his ownership of our common stock, which, as of january 31, 2013, represents approximately 9.3% of the total voting power of our common stock. in addition, mr. billings serves as chairman of our board of directors and as our chief executive officer. as of january 31, 2013, mr. billings and all of our other executive officers, directors and nominees, as a group, control approximately 11.4% of our total voting power. the extent of the influence that mr. billings and our other officers, directors and nominees have over us may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of our company and may preclude holders of our common stock from receiving any premium above market price for their shares that may be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of our company without the approval of mr. billings. mr. billings could have interests that are different than those of our other investors and could take or influence actions with which our other investors disagree.   our rights plan could inhibit a change in our control and we may not be successful in protecting our anticipated tax benefits.   in june 2009, our board of directors implemented a rights plan in an effort to protect against a possible limitation on our ability to use our nols, ncls and built-in losses by dissuading investors from aggregating ownership of our class a common stock and triggering an “ownership change” for purposes of sections 382 and 383 of the code. the rights plan may not be successful in preventing an “ownership change” within the meaning of sections 382 and 383 of the code, and we may lose all or most of the anticipated tax benefits associated with our prior losses. under the terms of the rights plan, in general, if a person or group acquires or commences a tender or exchange offer for beneficial ownership of 4.9% or more of the outstanding shares of our class a common stock upon a determination by our board of directors (an acquiring person), all of our other class a and class b common shareholders will have the right to purchase securities from us at a discount to such securities’ fair market value, thus causing substantial dilution to the acquiring person. the rights plan may have the effect of inhibiting or impeding a change in control not approved by our board of directors and, notwithstanding its purpose, could adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our common stock in connection with such a transaction. in addition, because our board of directors can prevent the rights plan from operating, in the event our board of directors approves of an acquiring person, the rights plan gives our board of directors significant discretion over whether a potential acquirer’s efforts to acquire a large interest in us will be successful. consequently, the rights plan may not succeed in protecting anticipated tax benefits and could impede transactions that would otherwise benefit our shareholders.   the trading price of our class a common stock may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control.   any negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects for our business or the types of assets in which we invest could depress our stock price regardless of our results. the following factors, among others, could contribute to the volatility of the price of our class a common stock:     · actual or unanticipated variations in our quarterly results;     · changes in our financial estimates by securities analysts;     · conditions or trends affecting companies that make investments similar to ours;     · changes in interest rate environments and the mortgage market that cause our borrowing costs to increase, our reported yields on our mbs portfolio to decrease or that cause the value of our mbs portfolio to decrease;     · changes in the market valuations of the securities in our mbs portfolio and other principal investments;     · negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects of investment or financial services companies;     · changes in the regulatory environment in which our business operates;     · dilution resulting from new equity issuances or the conversion of class b common stock into class a common stock;     · effects of litigation and contractual claims against us, our officers and our directors, including the potential settlement and litigation of such claims;     21 table of contents       · general economic conditions such as a recession, or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations; and       · additions or departures of our key personnel.     many of these factors are beyond our control.   we may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results.   our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the market value of the mbs we acquire, prepayment rates and changes in interest rates. as a result, we may fail to meet profitability or dividend expectations, which could negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.   we cannot assure you that we will be able to pay dividends in the future.   pursuant to our variable dividend policy, our board of directors, in its sole discretion, reinstated the payment of a cash dividend during 2010.  however, there can be no assurances that they will continue to do so.  the amount and timing of any distributions we may make are in the sole discretion of our board of directors.    litigation involving our company could result in significant legal expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   as described under “item 3—legal proceedings” in this annual report on form 10-k, we are currently, and may in the future become, subject to litigation. some of these claims may result in significant defense costs and potentially significant judgments against us, some of which are not, or cannot be, insured against.  we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, and cannot estimate the likelihood or potential dollar amount of any adverse results.  we may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies.  as a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments, if any, may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition.  in the event of an adverse judgment in any action or proceeding, we may be required to pay damages or penalties, or other remedies may be imposed upon us, which could have a material adverse impact upon our financial position, results of operations and cash flows and could also cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and prospects.     indemnification obligations to certain of our current and former directors and officers may increase the costs to us of legal proceedings involving our company.   our charter contains a provision that limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the criminal law or any federal or state securities law.  our charter also requires us to indemnify our directors and officers in connection with any liability incurred by them in connection with any action or proceeding (including any action by us or in our right) to which they are or may be made a party by reason of their service in those or other capacities if the conduct in question was in our best interests and the person was acting on our behalf or performing services for us, unless the person engaged in willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the criminal law.  the virginia stock corporation act requires a corporation (unless its charter provides otherwise, which our charter does not) to indemnify a director or officer who has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any proceeding to which he is made a party by reason of his service in that capacity.   in addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with certain of our current and former directors and officers under which we are generally required to indemnify them against liability incurred by them in connection with any action or proceeding to which they are or may be made a party by reason of their service in those or other capacities, if the conduct in question was in our best interests and the person was conducting themselves in good faith (subject to certain exceptions, including liabilities arising from willful misconduct, a knowing violation of the criminal law or receipt of an improper benefit).   in the future we may be the subject of indemnification assertions under our charter, virginia law or these indemnification agreements by our current and former directors and officers who are or may become party to any action or proceeding, including the sec investigation and litigation proceeding described in this annual report on form 10-k under “item 3—legal proceedings.”  we maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance policies that may limit our exposure and enable us to recover a portion of any amounts paid with respect to such obligations.  however, if our coverage under these policies is reduced, denied, eliminated or otherwise not available to us, our potential financial exposure would be increased.  the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification obligations could be significant.  amounts paid pursuant to our indemnification obligations could adversely affect our financial results and the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders.     22 table of contents   loss of our exclusion from regulation as an investment company under the 1940 act would adversely affect us and may reduce the market price of our shares.   we rely on section 3(c)(5)(c) for our exclusion from the registration requirements of the 1940 act. this provision requires that 55% of our assets, on an unconsolidated basis, consist of qualifying assets, such as agency whole pool certificates and 80% of our assets, on an unconsolidated basis, consist of qualifying assets or real estate-related assets. we will need to ensure not only that we qualify for an exclusion or exemption from regulation under the 1940 act, but also that each of our subsidiaries qualifies for such an exclusion or exemption. we intend to maintain our exclusion by monitoring the value of our interests in our subsidiaries. we may not be successful in this regard.   on september 1, 2011, the sec issued a concept release (no. ic-29778; file no. sw7-34-11, companies engaged in the business of acquiring mortgages and mortgage-related instruments) pursuant to which it is reviewing whether certain companies that invest in mbs and rely on the exemption from registration under section 3(c)(5)(c) of the 1940 act (such as our company) should continue to be allowed to rely on such exemption from registration.   if we fail to maintain our exclusion and another exclusion or exemption is not available, we may be required to register as an investment company, or we may be required to acquire or dispose of assets in order to meet our exemption. any such asset acquisitions or dispositions may include assets that we would not acquire or dispose of in the ordinary course of business, may be at unfavorable prices and result in a decline in the price of our class a common stock. if we are required to register under the 1940 act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the 1940 act), and portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. accordingly, registration under the 1940 act could limit our ability to follow our current investment and financing strategies and result in a decline in the price of our class a common stock. failure to obtain and maintain an exemption from being regulated as a commodity pool operator could subject us to additional regulation and compliance requirements and may result in fines and other penalties which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the dodd-frank act established a comprehensive new regulatory framework for derivative contracts commonly referred to as “swaps.” as a result, any investment fund that trades in swaps or other derivatives may be considered a “commodity pool,” which would cause its operators (in some cases the fund’s directors) to be regulated as “commodity pool operators,” or cpos. under new rules adopted by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission (cftc) for which the compliance date generally was december 31, 2012 as to those funds that become commodity pools solely because of their use of swaps cpos must by then have filed an application for registration with the national futures association (nfa) and have commenced and sustained good faith efforts to comply with the commodity exchange act and cftc’s regulations with respect to capital raising, disclosure, reporting, recordkeeping and other business conduct applicable for their activities as cpos as if the cpos were in fact registered in such capacity (which also requires compliance with applicable nfa rules). however, the cftc’s division of swap dealer and intermediary oversight recently issued a no-action letter saying, although it believes that mortgage reits are properly considered commodity pools, it would not recommend that the cftc take enforcement action against the operator of a mortgage reit who does not register as a cpo if, among other things, the mortgage reit limits the initial margin and premiums required to establish its swaps, futures and other commodity interest positions to not more than five percent (5%) of its total assets, the mortgage reit limits the net income derived annually from those commodity interest positions which are not qualifying hedging transactions to less than five percent (5%) of its gross income and interests in the mortgage reit are not marketed to the public as or in a commodity pool or otherwise as or in a vehicle for trading in the commodity futures, commodity options or swaps markets. we use hedging instruments in conjunction with our investment portfolio and related borrowings to reduce or mitigate risks associated with changes in interest rates, mortgage spreads, yield curve shapes and market volatility. these hedging instruments include interest rate swaps, interest rate futures and options on interest rate futures. we do not currently engage in any speculative derivatives activities or other non-hedging transactions using swaps, futures or options on futures. we do not use these instruments for the purpose of trading in commodity interests, and we do not consider our company or its operations to be a commodity pool as to which cpo registration or compliance is required. we have claimed the relief afforded by the above-described no-action letter. consequently, we will be restricted to operating within the parameters discussed in the no-action letter and will not enter into hedging transactions covered by the no-action letter if they would cause us to exceed the limits set forth in the no-action letter. however, there can be no assurance that the cftc will agree that we are entitled to the no-action letter relief claimed. the cftc has substantial enforcement power with respect to violations of the laws over which it has jurisdiction, including their anti-fraud and anti-manipulation provisions. for example, the cftc may suspend or revoke the registration of or the no-action relief afforded to a person who fails to comply with commodities laws and regulations, prohibit such a person from trading or doing business with registered entities, impose civil money penalties, require restitution and seek fines or imprisonment for criminal violations. in the event that the cftc staff does not provide the no action letter relief we requested or asserts that we are not entitled to the mortgage reit no-action letter relief claimed or if cftc otherwise determines that cpo registration and compliance is required of us, we may be obligated to furnish additional disclosures and reports, among other things. further, a private right of action exists against those who violate the laws over which the cftc has jurisdiction or who willfully aid, abet, counsel, induce or procure a violation of those laws. in the event that we fail to comply with statutory requirements relating to derivatives or with the cftc’s rules thereunder, including the no-action letter request or the mortgage reit no-action letter described above, we may be subject to significant fines, penalties and other civil or governmental actions or proceedings, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.     23 table of contents rapid changes in the values of our investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our exemption from the 1940 act.   changes in the market value or income potential of certain of our investments may prevent us from maintaining our exemption from the 1940 act.  we may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the 1940 act requirements, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.     we face competition for personnel, which could adversely affect our business and in turn negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.   we are dependent on the highly-skilled, and often highly-specialized, individuals we employ. retention of specialists to manage our portfolio is particularly important to our prospects. competition for the recruiting and retention of employees may increase elements of our compensation costs. we may not be able to recruit and hire new employees with our desired qualifications in a timely manner. our incentives may be insufficient to recruit and retain our employees. increased compensation costs could adversely affect the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could materially and adversely affect our future operating results.   we are dependent upon a small number of key senior professionals and loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our financial results which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.   we generally do not have employment agreements with our senior officers and other key professionals.  we cannot guarantee that we will continue to have access to members of our senior management team or other key professionals.  the loss of any members of our senior management and other key professionals could materially and adversely affect our operating results.   we are highly dependent upon communications and information systems operated by third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.   our business is highly dependent upon communications and information systems that allow us to monitor, value, buy, sell, finance and hedge our investments.  these systems are primarily operated by third parties and, as a result, we have limited ability to ensure their continued operation.  furthermore, in the event of systems failure or interruption, we will have limited ability to affect the timing and success of systems restoration.  any failure or interruption of our systems or third-party trading or information systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including mbs trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.   if we issue debt securities or other equity securities that rank senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividing and liquidating distributions, our operations may be restricted and we will be exposed to additional risk and the market price of our class a common stock could be adversely affected.   if we decide to issue debt securities in the future, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. additionally, any convertible or exchangeable or other securities registered pursuant to our shelf registration statement that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our class a common stock shares of preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our class a common stock .  we, and indirectly our shareholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities.  holders of debt securities may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to, the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments, and rights to approve the sale of assets.  such additional restrictive covenants, operating restrictions and preferential dividends could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders.   future decreases in the company’s book value attributable to deferred tax assets may reduce the market price of our shares.   as disclosed elsewhere throughout this annual report on form 10-k, our book value per share of $35.24 as of december 31, 2012 reflects $12.30 per share related to the deferred tax assets on our balance sheet. as we benefit from the utilization of the deferred tax assets in future periods, our corresponding book value attributable to the deferred tax assets utilized will be reduced by the same amount and the reported gaap net income will also be reduced for the corresponding income tax effect, which could negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.     24 table of contents   tax risks of our business and structure   our ability to use nol carry-forwards and ncl carry-forwards to reduce our taxable income may be limited.   we revoked our status as a real estate investment trust (reit) effective as of january 1, 2009, in part to maximize the use of potential tax benefits flowing from our existing nols or ncls and certain other tax attributes. we must have taxable income or gains to benefit from theses nols, ncls and certain other tax attributes. although we believe that a significant portion of our nols will be utilized to offset the taxable income, no assurance can be provided that we will have taxable income or gains in the future to apply against our remaining nols and ncls.     in addition, our nol and ncl carry-forwards may be limited by sections 382 and 383 of the code if we experience an “ownership change.” in general, an “ownership change” occurs if 5% shareholders increase their collective ownership of the aggregate amount of the outstanding shares of our company by more than 50 percentage points looking back over the relevant testing period. if an ownership change occurs, our ability to use our nols, ncls and certain recognized built-in losses to reduce our taxable income in a future year would be limited to a section 382 limitation equal to the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the ownership change. the long-term tax-exempt rate for february 2013 is 2.83%. in the event of an ownership change, nols and ncls that exceed the section 382 limitation in any year will continue to be allowed as carry-forwards for the remainder of the carry-forward period and such losses can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carry-forward period subject to the section 382 limitation in each year. however, if the carry-forward period for any nol or ncl were to expire before that loss had been fully utilized, the unused portion of that loss would be lost. the carry-forward period for nols is 20 years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the nols were incurred, and the carry-forward period for ncls is five years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the ncls were incurred. our use of new nols or ncls arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected by the section 382 limitation (unless there were another ownership change after those new losses arose).   on june 1, 2009, our board of directors adopted the rights plan in an effort to protect against the occurrence of an ownership change. the rights plan is intended to act as a deterrent to any person or group acquiring 4.9% or more of our outstanding class a common stock without the approval of our board of directors. shareholders who own 4.9% or more of our outstanding class a common stock as of the close of business on june 5, 2009 will not trigger the rights plan so long as they do not (i) acquire any additional shares of class a common stock or (ii) fall under 4.9% ownership of class a common stock and then re-acquire additional shares so that they own 4.9% or more of the class a common stock. the rights plan does not exempt any future acquisitions of class a common stock by such persons. any rights held by an acquiring person are void and may not be exercised. no person shall be an acquiring person unless our board of directors shall have affirmatively determined, in its sole and absolute discretion, within ten (10) business days (or such later time as the board of directors may determine) after such person has otherwise met the requirements of becoming an acquiring person, that such person shall be an acquiring person. the rights plan, however, does not protect against all transactions that could cause an ownership change, such as dispositions by existing 5% shareholders and transactions in our class b common stock. the rights plan was ratified by the shareholders in june 2010.   based on our knowledge of our stock ownership, we do not believe that an ownership change has occurred since our losses were generated. accordingly, we believe that at the current time there is no annual limitation imposed on our use of our nols and ncls to reduce future taxable income. the determination of whether an ownership change has occurred or will occur is complicated and depends on changes in percentage stock ownership among shareholders. other than the rights plan, there are currently no restrictions on the transfer of our stock that would discourage or prevent transactions that could cause an ownership change, although we may adopt such restrictions in the future. as discussed above, the rights plan is intended to discourage transactions that could cause an ownership change. the rights plan, however, does not protect against all transactions that could cause an ownership change. in addition, we have not obtained, and currently do not plan to obtain, a ruling from the internal revenue service, regarding our conclusion as to whether our losses are subject to any such limitations. furthermore, we may decide in the future that it is necessary or in our interest to take certain actions that could result in an ownership change. therefore, no assurance can be provided as to whether an ownership change has occurred or will occur in the future.   preserving the ability to use our nols and ncls may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities.   limitations imposed by sections 382 and 383 of the code may discourage us from, among other things, redeeming our stock or issuing additional stock to raise capital or to acquire businesses or assets. accordingly, our desire to preserve our nols and ncls may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities.     25 table of contents   if we elect in the future to be treated as a reit, complying with the reit requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.   beginning with our 2014 taxable year, we will be eligible to elect to be treated as a reit. we might make such election for various reasons. for example, if we are limited in our ability to use our nols and ncls under sections 382 and 383 of the code, we may elect reit status to eliminate corporate level tax on our income that we distribute to our stockholders. to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we would be required to continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. in order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego attractive business or investment opportunities. thus, compliance with the reit requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. in addition, in order to qualify as a reit, an entity must distribute to its stockholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of its reit taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. as a result, if we elect to be treated as a reit, we generally will be required to distribute our earnings to our stockholders rather than retaining our earnings for reinvestment in our business. the decision to elect reit status is in the sole discretion of our board of directors, and no assurance can be given that we will, or will not, elect such status for 2014 or in the future.   item  1b. unresolved