item 1a. risk factors investing in our company involves various risks, including the risk that you might lose your entire investment. our results of operations depend upon many factors including our ability to implement our business strategy, the availability of opportunities to acquire assets, the level and volatility of interest rates, the cost and availability of short- and long-term credit, financial market conditions, and general economic conditions. the following discussion concerns the material risks associated with our business. these risks are interrelated, and you should consider them as a whole. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also materially and adversely affect the value of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. in connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report on form 10-k, including these risk factors and elsewhere, you should carefully review the section entitled “cautionary statement about forward-looking information.” general risks related to our business in general, changes in market conditions could further adversely and materially affect our business and the value of our common stock could be negatively impacted. risk is an inherent part of our business. our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings, and our business is materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. in recent years, these conditions have changed suddenly and negatively and may continue to change adversely in 2011 and future periods. in response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and the financial markets, governments, regulators and central banks in the united states and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence. in the event of further adverse changes in market conditions, such as changes in interest or foreign exchange rates, equity, fixed income, commodity or real estate valuations, liquidity, availability of credit or volatility, and drops in confidence, our business could be materially adversely affected in many ways. the voting power of our principal shareholders and other executive officers, directors and nominees may result in corporate action with which you do not agree and may discourage third party acquisitions of our company and prevent our shareholders from receiving any premium above market price for their shares. eric f. billings has significant influence over our operations through his ownership of our common stock, which, as of january 31, 2011, represents approximately 17.7% of the total voting power of our common stock. in addition, mr. billings serves as chairman of our board of directors and as our chief executive officer. as of january 31, 2011, mr. billings and all of our other executive officers, directors and nominees, as a group, control approximately 21.1% of our total voting power. the extent of the influence that mr. billings and our other officers, directors and nominees have over us may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of our company and may preclude holders of our common stock from receiving any premium above market price for their shares that may be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of our company without the approval of mr. billings. mr. billings could have interests that are different than those of our other investors and could take or influence actions with which our other investors disagree. our shareholder rights plan could inhibit a change in our control and we may not be successful in protecting our anticipated tax benefits. on june 1, 2009, our board of directors implemented a rights plan in an effort to protect against a possible limitation on our ability to use our nols, ncls and built-in losses by dissuading investors from aggregating ownership of our class a common stock and triggering an “ownership change” for purposes of sections 382 and 383 of the code. the rights plan may not be successful in preventing an “ownership change” within the meaning of sections 382 and 383 of the code, and we may lose all or most of the anticipated tax benefits associated with   13 table of contents our prior losses. under the terms of the rights plan, in general, if a person or group acquires or commences a tender or exchange offer for beneficial ownership of 4.9% or more of the outstanding shares of our class a common stock upon a determination by our board of directors, all of our other class a and class b common shareholders will have the right to purchase securities from us at a discount to such securities’ fair market value, thus causing substantial dilution to the acquiring person. the rights plan may have the effect of inhibiting or impeding a change in control not approved by our board of directors and, notwithstanding its purpose, could adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our common stock in connection with such a transaction. in addition, since our board can prevent the rights plan from operating, in the event our board of directors approves of an acquiring person, the rights plan gives our board of directors significant discretion over whether a potential acquirer’s efforts to acquire a large interest in us will be successful. consequently, the rights plan may not succeed in protecting anticipated tax benefits and could impede transactions that would otherwise benefit our shareholders. the trading prices of our class a common stock may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control. any negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects for our business or the types of assets in which we invest could depress our stock price regardless of our results. the following factors could contribute to the volatility of the price of our class a common stock:     •   actual or unanticipated variations in our quarterly results;     •   changes in our financial estimates by securities analysts;     •   conditions or trends affecting companies that make investments similar to ours;     •   changes in interest rate environments and the mortgage market that cause our borrowing costs to increase, our reported yields on our mbs portfolio to decrease or that cause the value of our mbs portfolio to decrease;     •   changes in the market valuations of the securities in our mbs portfolio and other principal investments;     •   negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects of investment or financial services companies;     •   changes in the regulatory environment in which our business operates;     •   dilution resulting from new equity issuances or the conversion of class b common stock into class a common stock;     •   general economic conditions such as a recession, or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations; and     •   additions or departures of our key personnel. many of these factors are beyond our control. we may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results. our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to a combination of factors which are beyond our control, including the market value of the mbs we acquire, prepayment rates and changes in interest rates. as a result, we may fail to meet profitability or dividend expectations which could negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. we cannot assure you that we will be able to pay dividends in the future. pursuant to our variable dividend policy, our board of directors, in its sole discretion, reinstated the payment of a cash dividend during 2010. however, there can be no assurances that they will continue to do so. the amount and timing of any distributions we may make is in the sole discretion of our board of directors.   14 table of contents loss of our exclusion from regulation as an investment company under the 1940 act would adversely affect us and may reduce the market price of our shares. we rely on section 3(a)(1)(c) for our exclusion from the registration requirements of the 1940 act. this provision requires that we neither engage nor propose to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and not own or propose to acquire “investment securities” having a value exceeding 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. for purposes of the 1940 act, the term “investment securities” excludes u.s. government securities and securities of majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exemption under section 3(c)(1) or section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 act. accordingly, we need to ensure that no more than 40% of our assets, on an unconsolidated basis, excluding cash and government securities, consist of investment securities for purposes of the 40% test. we are a holding company that conducts our business through subsidiaries, including a subsidiary that relies on section 3(c)(5)(c). because this subsidiary is a majority-owned subsidiary and is not relying on section 3(c)(1) or section 3(c)(7) for its exemption, our interests in this subsidiary are not investment securities. we will need to ensure not only that we qualify for an exclusion or exemption from regulation under the 1940 act, but also that each of our subsidiaries qualifies for such an exclusion or exemption. we intend to maintain our exclusion by monitoring the value of our interests in our subsidiaries. we may not be successful in this regard. if we fail to maintain our exclusion and another exclusion or exemption is not available, we may be required to register as an investment company, or we may be required to acquire or dispose of assets in order to meet our exemption. any such asset acquisitions or dispositions may include assets that we would not acquire or dispose of in the ordinary course of business, may be at unfavorable prices and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. if we are required to register under the 1940 act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the 1940 act), and portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. accordingly, registration under the 1940 act could limit our ability to follow our current investment and financing strategies and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. we face competition for personnel which could adversely affect our business and in turn negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. we are dependent on the highly skilled, and often highly specialized, individuals we employ. retention of specialists to manage our portfolio is particularly important to our prospects. competition for the recruiting and retention of employees may increase elements of our compensation costs. we may not be able to recruit and hire new employees with our desired qualifications in a timely manner. our incentives may be insufficient to recruit and retain our employees. increased compensation costs could adversely affect the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could materially and adversely affect our future operating results. we are dependent on a small number of key senior professionals and loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our results which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends. we generally do not have employment agreements with our senior officers and other key professionals. the loss of any members of our senior management and other key professionals could materially and adversely affect our operating results. we cannot guarantee that we will continue to have access to members of our senior management team or other key professionals. we are highly dependent on systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock and our ability to pay dividends. our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems, including systems provided by other third parties. any failure or interruption of our systems or third-party trading or information systems   15 table of contents could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including mbs trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. indemnification agreements with our affiliates may increase the costs to us of litigation against our company. our charter documents allow indemnification of our officers, directors and agents to the maximum extent permitted by virginia law, as may the charter documents of our subsidiaries in their respective jurisdictions of incorporation. we have entered into indemnification agreements with these persons. in the future we may be the subject of indemnification assertions under these charter documents or agreements by our affiliates who are or may become defendants in litigation. amounts paid pursuant to these indemnification agreements could adversely affect our financial results and the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders. risks related to our principal investing activities continued adverse developments in the residential mortgage market may adversely affect the value of our securities and our ability to borrow against our security assets. since mid-2007, the residential mortgage market in the united states has experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions that may adversely affect the performance and market value of the mortgage securities we acquire. securities backed by residential mortgage loans originated in 2006 and 2007 have experienced a higher and earlier than expected rate of delinquencies. additionally, other earlier vintages of mbs may not be performing as expected. many mbs have been downgraded by the rating agencies in recent years and the rating agencies may in the future downgrade mbs. as a result, the market for these securities may be adversely affected for a significant period of time. during 2010, housing prices and appraisal values in many states continued to decline. a continued decline or an extended flattening of those values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, particularly with respect to second homes and investor properties and with respect to any residential mortgage loans whose aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate liens) are close to or greater than the related property values. current market conditions may impair borrowers’ ability to refinance or sell their properties, which may contribute to higher delinquency and default rates. borrowers seeking to avoid increased monthly payments by refinancing may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparably low interest rates. a continued decline in housing prices may also leave borrowers with insufficient equity in their homes to permit them to refinance. borrowers who intended to sell their homes or refinance their existing mortgage loans on or before the expiration of the fixed rate periods on their mortgage loans may find that they cannot sell their property for an amount equal to or greater than the unpaid principal balance of their loans or obtain new financing at lower rates. in addition, some mortgage loans may include prepayment premiums that may further inhibit refinancing. servicers of residential mortgage loans also have the authority to modify mortgage loans that are in default, or for which default is reasonably foreseeable, if such modifications are in the best interests of the holders of the mortgage securities and such modifications are done in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreements. loan modifications are more likely to be used when borrowers are less able to refinance or sell their homes due to market conditions, and when the potential recovery from a foreclosure is reduced due to lower property values. a significant number of loan modifications could result in a significant reduction in cash flows to the holders of the mortgage securities on an ongoing basis. various federal, state and local regulatory authorities have taken or proposed actions that could hinder the ability of the servicer to foreclose promptly on defaulted mortgage loans. any such actions may adversely affect the performance of the loans and the yield on and value of the mortgage securities.   16 table of contents investors should consider that the general market conditions discussed above may adversely affect the market value of the securities in our mbs portfolio and make it difficult or more expensive for us to borrow against those securities. the conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between fannie mae and freddie mac and the federal government, may adversely affect our business. due to increased market concerns about fannie mae and freddie mac’s ability to withstand future credit losses associated with securities held in their investment portfolios, and on which they provide guarantees, without the direct support of the federal government, on july 30, 2008, the government passed the housing and economic recovery act of 2008 (hera). on september 6, 2008, the fhfa placed fannie mae and freddie mac into conservatorship and, together with the u.s. treasury, established a program designed to boost investor confidence in fannie mae’s and freddie mac’s debt and mortgage-backed securities. as the conservator of fannie mae and freddie mac, the fhfa controls and directs the operations of fannie mae and freddie mac and may (1) take over the assets of and operate fannie mae and freddie mac with all the powers of the shareholders, the directors and the officers of fannie mae and freddie mac and conduct all business of fannie mae and freddie mac; (2) collect all obligations and money due to fannie mae and freddie mac; (3) perform all functions of fannie mae and freddie mac which are consistent with the conservator’s appointment; (4) preserve and conserve the assets and property of fannie mae and freddie mac; and (5) contract for assistance in fulfilling any function, activity, action or duty of the conservator. a primary focus of this legislation is to increase the availability of mortgage financing by allowing fannie mae and freddie mac to continue to grow their guarantee business without limit, while limiting net purchases of agency-backed mbs. beginning in 2010, fannie mae and freddie mac have been required gradually to reduce their agency security portfolios. in addition to fhfa becoming the conservator of fannie mae and freddie mac, the u.s. treasury, took three additional actions, including the establishment of preferred stock purchase agreements between the u.s. treasury and fannie mae and freddie mac pursuant to which the u.s. treasury will ensure that each of fannie mae and freddie mac maintains a positive net worth in any calendar quarter through 2012. although the u.s. treasury has committed capital to fannie mae and freddie mac, there can be no assurance that these actions will be adequate for their needs. if these actions are inadequate, fannie mae and freddie mac could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations. on july 21, 2010, president obama signed into law financial regulatory reform legislation known as the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act). the dodd-frank act will significantly change the regulation of the financial services industry, including by its creation of new standards related to regulatory oversight of systemically important financial companies, derivatives transactions, asset-backed securitization, mortgage underwriting and consumer financial protection. the dodd-frank act will directly affect fannie mae’s and freddie mac’s business in that new and additional regulatory oversight and standards will apply to them. extensive regulatory guidance is needed to implement and clarify many of the provisions of the dodd-frank act, and agencies have just begun to initiate the required administrative processes. it is therefore difficult to assess fully the impact of this legislation on fannie mae and freddie mac and, in turn, on us and the rest of the mortgage industry, at this time. the u.s. treasury has signaled that it will announce plans for the future of fannie mae and freddie mac in late february 2011. we cannot predict what role fannie mae and freddie mac will play in the future housing market. the future roles of fannie mae and freddie mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be considerably limited relative to historical measurements. any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by fannie mae and freddie mac could redefine what constitutes an agency security and could have broad adverse market implications and significant implications for our own business. our income could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold. for example, the current credit support provided by the u.s. treasury to fannie mae and   17 table of contents freddie mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rate we expect to receive from agency-backed mbs that we seek to acquire, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. a reduction in the supply of agency-backed mbs could also negatively affect the pricing of agency-backed mbs we seek to acquire by reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. as indicated above, recent legislation has changed the relationship between fannie mae and freddie mac and the federal government and requires fannie mae and freddie mac to reduce the amount of mortgage loans they own or for which they provide guarantees on agency-backed mbs. future legislation could further change the relationship between fannie mae and freddie mac and the federal government, and could also nationalize or eliminate such entities entirely. any law affecting these government-sponsored entities (gses) may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by fannie mae or freddie mac. as a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on investments in fannie mae and/or freddie mac agency securities. it also is possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade. all of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. to the extent that we invest in agency-backed mbs that are guaranteed by fannie mae and freddie mac, we are subject to the risk that these gses may not be able to fully satisfy their guarantee obligations or that these guarantee obligations may be repudiated, which would adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and our ability to sell or finance these securities. the interest and principal payments we receive on the agency-backed mbs that we acquire are guaranteed by fannie mae or freddie mac. the principal and interest on securities issued by fannie mae and freddie mac are not guaranteed by the u.s. government. all the agency-backed mbs in which we invest depend on a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities. to the extent these gses are not able to fully satisfy their guarantee obligations or that these guarantee obligations are repudiated, the value of our investment portfolio and our ability to sell or finance these securities would be adversely affected. market conditions may upset the historical relationship between interest rate changes and prepayment trends, which would make it more difficult for us to analyze our investment portfolio. our success depends on our ability to analyze the relationship of changing interest rates on prepayments of the mortgage loans that underlie our mbs. changes in interest rates and prepayments affect the market price of mbs that we intend to purchase and any mbs that we hold at a given time. as part of our overall portfolio risk management, we analyze interest rate changes and prepayment trends separately and collectively to assess their effects on our investment portfolio. in conducting our analysis, we depend on certain assumptions based upon historical trends with respect to the relationship between interest rates and prepayments under normal market conditions. if the dislocations in the residential mortgage market or other developments change the way that prepayment trends have historically responded to interest rate changes, our ability to (i) assess the market value of our investment portfolio, (ii) implement our hedging strategies and (iii) implement techniques to reduce our prepayment rate volatility would be significantly affected, which could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. we may be unable to accurately forecast interest and prepayment rates. mortgage loan modification programs, future legislative action and changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing a mortgage with fannie mae, freddie mac or ginnie mae may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the mbs in which we invest. the u.s. government, through the federal housing administration (fha) and the federal deposit insurance corporation (fdic), commenced implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures, including the hope for homeowners act of 2008,   18 table of contents which allows certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into fha-insured loans. in addition, fannie mae and freddie mac instituted programs designed to assist distressed homeowners to avoid foreclosure. these programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans. these loan modification programs, future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans, as well as changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing a mortgage with fannie mae, freddie mac or ginnie mae may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our mbs. depending on whether or not the bond was purchased at a premium or discount, the yield may be positively or negatively impacted. we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we previously sold or securitized or indemnify investors and other third parties if the loans that we sold do not comply with certain representations and warranties, which could harm our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. through early 2007, we sold loans in connection with securitization transactions. as a standard practice, we were required to make customary representations and warranties about the loans to the securitization trusts regarding, among other things, certain characteristics of those assets. the securitization documents generally require us to repurchase a loan in the event that the loan is materially out of compliance with these representations and warranties and such failure causes a loss to the related securitization trust. if a securitization trust enforces a loan repurchase right against us, we may have a corresponding remedy against the party that originally sold the loan to us. however, because the parties that sold loans to us often are no longer in business, the burden of any such loan repurchase obligation generally may fall on us. significant repurchase claims and obligations could harm our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. declines in the market values of the securities in our mbs portfolio may adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our shareholders. a substantial portion of our assets are classified for accounting purposes either as “trading securities” or as “available-for-sale.” changes in the market values of those assets will be directly charged or credited to shareholders’ equity. as a result, a decline in value may reduce the book value of our assets. moreover, if the decline in value of an available-for-sale security is other-than-temporary, such decline will reduce earnings, as will a decline in the value of our securities classified as trading securities for accounting purposes. a decline in the market value of the securities in our mbs portfolio may adversely affect us particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. if the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan. if we were unable to post the additional collateral, we would have to sell the assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. a reduction in credit available may reduce our earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to shareholders. our mortgage investing strategy involves leverage, which could adversely affect our operations and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. using debt to finance the purchase of mbs will expose us to the risk that margin calls will be made and that we will not be able to meet those margin calls. to meet margin calls, we may sell the applicable mortgage-related securities and such sales could result in realized losses, and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. a leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used.   19 table of contents changes in interest rates could negatively affect the value of our mbs, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. we acquire indirect interests in mortgage loans by purchasing mbs and we currently intend to continue this strategy. under a normal yield curve, an investment in mbs will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. despite fannie mae or freddie mac guarantees of the agency-backed mbs we own, those guarantees do not protect us from declines in market value caused by changes in interest rates. declines in market value may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. a significant risk associated with our portfolio of mortgage-related assets is the risk that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. if long-term rates were to increase significantly, the market value of these mbs would decline and the weighted average life of the investments would increase. we could realize a loss in the future if the mbs were sold. at the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the repurchase agreements we enter into in order to finance the purchase of mbs. market values of mbs may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments and widening of credit spreads. limitations on our access to capital could impair our liquidity and our ability to conduct our business. liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business. failures of similar businesses have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity. liquidity is of particular importance to our business and perceived liquidity issues may affect our clients’ and counterparties’ willingness to engage in transactions with us. our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects us or third parties. further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time or the market is experiencing significant volatility. our inability to maintain adequate liquidity would materially harm our business and operations. the nature of the securities we hold exposes us to concentrated credit risk that could reduce our earnings, dividends, cash flows, and access to liquidity, and otherwise negatively affect our business. our mbs portfolio has concentrated risks with respect to residential real estate loans. in general, losses on an asset securing a residential real estate loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the owner of the property (i.e. the owner will first lose the equity invested in the property) and, thereafter, by mezzanine or preferred equity investors, if any, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, then by the first-loss holder, and then by holders of more senior securities. in the event the losses incurred upon default on the loan exceed any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit, and classes of securities junior to those in which we invest (if any), we may not be able to recover any or all of our investment in the securities we hold. in addition, if the underlying properties have been overvalued by the originating appraisal or if the values subsequently declined and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related mbs, then the first-loss securities may suffer a total loss of principal, followed by losses on the second-loss and so on. any credit enhancement we may have with respect to our mbs could be insufficient to protect us from a complete loss. our due diligence of potential investments may not reveal all of the liabilities associated with such investments and may not reveal aspects of such investments which could lead to investment losses, and our ability to manage exposures to assets in which we have an indirect interest is limited. before making certain acquisitions, we may undertake due diligence efforts with respect to various aspects of the acquisition, including investigating the strengths and weaknesses of the originator or issuer of the asset and, in the case of acquisitions of private-label mbs, verifying certain aspects of the underlying assets themselves as well as other factors and characteristics that may be material to the performance of the acquisition. in making the assessment and otherwise conducting due diligence, we rely on resources available to us and, in some cases, third party information. there can be no assurance that any due diligence process that we conduct will uncover relevant facts that could be determinative of whether or not an investment will be successful.   20 table of contents moreover, our ability to manage our exposures is significantly limited by contractual and other constraints of the securitization vehicle structures in which such assets are held. the securities and loans we own are likely to lead to variable returns. we actively manage the risks associated with acquiring, holding, and disposing of mbs. no amount of risk management or mitigation, however, can change the variable nature of the cash flows, fair values of, and financial results generated by these loans and securities. changes in the credit performance or the prepayments on the loans underlying these securities and changes in interest rates impact the cash flows on these securities, and the impact could be significant for our securities with concentrated risks. changes in cash flows lead to changes in our return and also to potential variability in reported income. the revenue recognized on most of our assets is based on an estimate of the yield over the remaining life of the asset. thus, changes in our estimates of expected cash flow from an asset will result in changes in our reported earnings on that asset in the current reporting period. we may be forced to recognize adverse changes in expected future cash flows as a current expense, further adding to earnings volatility. changes in the fair values of our mbs may have various negative effects on us, reduced earnings, increased earnings volatility, and volatility in our book value. fair values for our mbs can be volatile. the fair values can change rapidly and significantly and changes can result from changes in interest rates, actual and perceived risk, supply, demand, and actual and projected cash flows and prepayments and credit performance. a decrease in fair value may not necessarily be the result of deterioration in future cash flows. a decrease in the fair value of mbs we own may result in a reduction in our book value due to the accounting standards we are required to apply. reporting a low book value could have adverse effects even if that book value is not indicative of the actual value of our net investments in assets. the adverse effects include the inability to meet or agree upon covenants with counterparties, to enter into derivative contracts, or a reduction in the market price of our common stock. our calculations of the fair value of our mbs are based upon assumptions that are inherently subjective and involve a high degree of management judgment. the use of different assumptions could materially affect our fair value calculations and our results of operations and financial condition. we report our securities at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. in computing the fair values for mbs for which there are limited observable third-party trades, we make a number of market-based assumptions, including assumptions regarding future interest rates, prepayment rates, discount rates, credit loss rates, and the timing of credit losses. these assumptions are inherently subjective and involve a high degree of management judgment. use of different assumptions could materially affect our fair value calculations and our results of operations and financial condition. although we rely on our internal calculations to compute the fair value of securities we own, we also request and consider indications of value (marks) from third-party dealers to assist us in our valuation process. recent market disruptions have generated fewer third-party data points for us to consider in connection with our estimates of the fair value of our securities than were available to us in the past. our reported fair value may not reflect what a willing buyer would pay for those assets and could be materially higher than the price we could obtain. credit ratings assigned to debt securities by the credit rating agencies may not accurately reflect the risks associated with those securities. rating agencies rate debt securities based upon their assessment of the safety of the receipt of principal and interest payments. rating agencies do not consider the risks of fluctuations in fair value or other factors that may influence the value of debt securities and, therefore, the assigned credit rating may not fully reflect the true risks   21 table of contents of an investment in securities. also, rating agencies may fail to make timely adjustments to credit ratings based on available data or changes in economic outlook or may otherwise fail to make changes in credit ratings in response to subsequent events, so that our investments may be better or worse than the ratings indicate. a credit rating may not accurately reflect the risks associated with a particular debt security. we make our acquisition decisions after factoring in a series of data, including credit rating. however, our assessment of the quality of an investment may also prove to be inaccurate and we may incur credit losses in excess of our initial expectations. credit rating agencies may change their methods of evaluating credit risk and determining ratings on mbs. these changes may occur quickly and often. the market’s ability to understand and absorb these changes, and the impact to the securitization market in general, are difficult to predict. such changes will have an impact on the amount of investment-grade and non-investment-grade securities that are created or placed on the market in the future. the assignment of an “investment grade” rating to a security by a rating agency does not mean that there is not credit risk associated with the security or that the risk of a credit loss with respect to such security is remote. for example, a large number of rmbs that were rated triple-a by one or more rating agencies have been downgraded, in many cases by several rating levels at one time. a downgrade in credit rating can materially adversely affect the fair value of a security. new assets we acquire may not generate yields as attractive as yields on our current assets, resulting in a decline in our earnings per share over time. we believe the assets we acquire have the potential to generate attractive economic returns and gaap yields, but acquiring assets in an uncertain economic environment poses significant risks. potential cash flow and mark-to-market returns from new asset acquisitions could be negative, including both new assets that are backed by newly-originated loans, as well as new acquisitions that are backed by more seasoned assets that may experience higher than expected levels of delinquency and default. in order to maintain and grow our portfolio size and our earnings, we must reinvest in new assets a portion of the cash flows we receive from principal, interest, and sales. we receive monthly payments from many of our assets, consisting of principal and interest. principal payments reduce the size of our current portfolio and generate cash for us. we may also sell assets from time to time as part of our portfolio management and capital recycling strategies. if the assets we acquire in the future earn lower gaap yields than the assets we currently own, our reported earnings per share will likely decline over time as the older assets pay down, are called, or are sold. an increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our mortgage-related assets may adversely affect our profitability, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. as our repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowing instruments mature, we will be required either to enter into new repurchase agreements or to sell a portion of our mortgage-related assets or other investment securities. current conditions in the credit markets may make it impracticable to enter into new repurchase agreements or other short-term facilities. see “—risks related to adverse market conditions.” an increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to enter into new repurchase agreements would reduce the spread between our returns on our mortgage-related assets and the cost of our borrowings. this change in interest rates would adversely affect our returns on our mortgage-related assets portfolio, which might reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our shareholders. prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our mbs purchased at a premium, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. in the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their loans. homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when interest rates decline. consequently, owners   22 table of contents of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when interest rates increase. consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates. this volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our mortgage-based securities portfolio and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. despite fannie mae or freddie mac guarantees of principal and interest related to the agency-backed mbs we own, those guarantees do not protect us against prepayment risks. rapid changes in the values of our investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our exemption from the 1940 act. changes in the market value or income potential of certain of our investments may prevent us from maintaining our exemption from the 1940 act. we may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the 1940 act requirements. hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. we have historically entered into and may enter into interest rate swap agreements, euro-dollar futures or pursue other hedging strategies. our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal prepayments, the type of mbs held, and other changing market conditions. interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things:     •   interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates;     •   available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;     •   the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability;     •   the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and     •   the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. our hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. we may change our mortgage investment strategy, hedging strategy, asset allocation and operational policies without shareholder consent, which may result in riskier investments and adversely affect the market value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. we may change our mortgage investment strategy, hedging strategy, asset allocation and operational policies at any time without the consent of our shareholders, which could result in our making investments or hedges that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and hedges described in this annual report on form 10-k. a change in our investment or hedging strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate, and real estate market fluctuations. a change in our asset allocation could result in us making investments in instrument categories different from those described in this annual report on form 10-k. our board of directors oversees our operational policies, including those with respect to our acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions or approves transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. operational policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.   23 table of contents the market for investment opportunities is competitive, which could make it difficult for us to purchase or originate investments at attractive yields, which could have an adverse effect on cash available for distribution to our shareholders. we gain access to investment opportunities only to the extent that they become known to us. gaining access to investment opportunities is highly competitive. we compete with other companies that have greater capital, more long-standing relationships, broader product offerings and other advantages. additionally, in response to the recent financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the u.s. government established programs such as the legacy securities public-private investment program (ppip), which are designed, in part, to restart the market for certain of our target investments. the establishment of these or similar programs may result in increased competition for attractive opportunities in our target investments. it is also possible that our competitors may successfully utilize these programs, which would provide them with attractive debt and equity capital funding from the u.s. government. increased competition would make it more difficult for us to purchase or originate our target investments at attractive yields, which could have an adverse effect on cash available for distribution to our shareholders. tax risks of our business and structure our ability to use nol carry-forwards and ncl carry-forwards to reduce our taxable income may be limited. we revoked our status as a reit effective as of january 1, 2009, in part to maximize the use of potential tax benefits flowing from our existing nols or ncls and certain other tax attributes. we must have taxable income or gains to benefit from theses nols, ncls and certain other tax attributes. although we believe that a significant portion of our nols will be utilized to offset the taxable income, no assurance can be provided that we will have taxable income or gains in the future to apply against our remaining nols and ncls. in addition, our nol and ncl carry-forwards may be limited by sections 382 and 383 of the code if we experience an “ownership change.” in general, an “ownership change” occurs if 5% shareholders increase their collective ownership of the aggregate amount of the outstanding shares of our company by more than 50 percentage points looking back over the relevant testing period. if an ownership change occurs, our ability to use our nols, ncls and certain recognized built-in losses to reduce our taxable income in a future year would be limited to a section 382 limitation equal to the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the ownership change. the long-term tax-exempt rate for february 2011 is 4.47%. in the event of an ownership change, nols and ncls that exceed the section 382 limitation in any year will continue to be allowed as carry-forwards for the remainder of the carry-forward period and such losses can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carry-forward period subject to the section 382 limitation in each year. however, if the carry-forward period for any nol or ncl were to expire before that loss had been fully utilized, the unused portion of that loss would be lost. the carry-forward period for nols is 20 years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the nols were incurred, and the carry-forward period for ncl is five years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the ncl were incurred. our use of new nols or ncls arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected by the section 382 limitation (unless there were another ownership change after those new losses arose). on june 1, 2009, our board of directors adopted the rights plan in an effort to protect against the occurrence of an ownership change. the rights plan is intended to act as a deterrent to any person or group acquiring 4.9% or more of our outstanding class a common stock without the approval of our board of directors. shareholders who own 4.9% or more of our outstanding class a common stock as of the close of business on june 5, 2009 will not trigger the rights plan so long as they do not (i) acquire any additional shares of class a common stock or (ii) fall under 4.9% ownership of class a common stock and then re-acquire additional shares so that they own 4.9% or more of the class a common stock. the rights plan does not exempt any future acquisitions of class a common stock by such persons. any rights held by an acquiring person are   24 table of contents void and may not be exercised. no person shall be an acquiring person unless our board of directors shall have affirmatively determined, in its sole and absolute discretion, within ten (10) business days (or such later time as the board of directors may determine) after such person has otherwise met the requirements of becoming an acquiring person, that such person shall be an acquiring person. the rights plan, however, does not protect against all transactions that could cause an ownership change, such as dispositions by existing 5% shareholders and transactions in our class b common stock. the rights plan was ratified by the shareholders in june 2010. based on our knowledge of our stock ownership, we do not believe that an ownership change has occurred since our losses were generated. accordingly, we believe that at the current time there is no annual limitation imposed on our use of our nols and ncls to reduce future taxable income. the determination of whether an ownership change has occurred or will occur is complicated and depends on changes in percentage stock ownership among shareholders. other than the rights plan, there are currently no restrictions on the transfer of our stock that would discourage or prevent transactions that could cause an ownership change, although we may adopt such restrictions in the future. as discussed above, the rights plan is intended to discourage transactions that could cause an ownership change. the rights plan, however, does not protect against all transactions that could cause an ownership change. in addition, we have not obtained, and currently do not plan to obtain, a ruling from the internal revenue service, regarding our conclusion as to whether our losses are subject to any such limitations. furthermore, we may decide in the future that it is necessary or in our interest to take certain actions that could result in an ownership change. therefore, no assurance can be provided as to whether an ownership change has occurred or will occur in the future. preserving the ability to use our nols and ncls may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. limitations imposed by sections 382 and 383 of the code may discourage us from, among other things, redeeming our stock or issuing additional stock to raise capital or to acquire businesses or assets. accordingly, our desire to preserve our nols and ncls may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities.   item 1b. unresolved