item 1a. risk factors we outline below factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking and other statements contained in this report and other documents that we file with the united states securities and exchange commission (the “sec”). the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. however, these are the risks we believe to be material as of the date of this report. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our future business or operating results. any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. introduction as with any publicly traded company, investing in our equity and debt securities carries risks. our risk management strategy is designed to identify, measure, monitor and manage material risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and we have invested significant resources to develop the appropriate risk management policies and procedures to implement this strategy. nonetheless, the future business environment is intrinsically uncertain and difficult to forecast and our risk management methods may not be successful for this reason or because of other unintended weaknesses in our approach. we set out below the risks that we have identified using the classification system that we use in our risk management process. for this purpose, we divide risks into core and non-core risks. core risks comprise those risks which are inherent in the operation of our business including insurance risks in respect of our underwriting operations and market and liquidity risks in respect of our investment activity. we intentionally expose the company to core risks with a view to generating shareholder value, but seek to manage the resulting volatility in our earnings and financial condition to within the limits defined by our risk appetite. however, these core risks are intrinsically difficult to measure and manage and we may not therefore be successful in this respect. all other risks, including regulatory and operational risks, are classified as non-core. we seek as far as is practicable and economic to avoid or minimize our exposure to non-core risks that we identify as potentially material. insurance risks our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected by the occurrence of natural catastrophic events. as part of our insurance and reinsurance operations, we assume substantial exposure to losses resulting from natural catastrophic events including, but not limited to, severe weather, floods, wildfires, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes and tsunamis. the severe weather events to which we are exposed include tropical storms, cyclones, hurricanes, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms and severe rainfall causing flash floods. the incidence, severity and magnitude of such catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and our losses from catastrophes have been and can be substantial. the occurrence of large claims from catastrophic events may result in substantial volatility in, and materially affect, our financial condition, operating results for any fiscal quarter or year and our ability to write new business.   44 table of contents we expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured property will increase the severity of such occurrences in the future and that climate change may increase the frequency and severity of severe weather events and flooding. although we attempt to manage our exposure to these events through a multitude of approaches including geographic diversification, geographical limits, individual policy limits, exclusions or limitations from coverage and purchase of reinsurance, these management tools may not react in the way that we expect. in addition, a single catastrophic event could affect multiple geographic zones or the frequency or severity of catastrophic events could exceed our estimates, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. the models we use to assess our exposure to losses from future natural catastrophes contain inherent uncertainties and our actual losses may therefore differ significantly from expectations. to help assess our exposure to losses from natural catastrophes we use computer-based models, which simulate multiple scenarios using a variety of assumptions. these models are developed in part by third-party vendors and their effectiveness relies on many inputs and assumptions including, but not limited to, scientific research, historical data, exposure data provided by insureds and reinsureds, data on the terms and conditions of insurance policies, and the professional judgment of our employees and other industry specialists. while the models have evolved considerably over time they do not necessarily accurately measure the statistical distribution of future losses due to the inherent limitations of the inputs and assumptions on which they rely. these limitations are evidenced by significant variation in the results obtained from different models, material changes in model results over time due to refinement of the underlying data elements and assumptions and the uncertain predictive capability and performance of industry models over longer time intervals. the effect of these limitations is that future losses from catastrophic events may be larger and more frequent than expected and larger or more frequent than those reported in the company’s financial statements to date. the frequency and severity of weather-related catastrophes may increase due to cyclical variations in climate and global climate change. weather patterns, including the frequency and severity of severe weather events, are believed to be influenced by cyclical phenomena operating over periods of months or years. for example, many observers believe that the atlantic basin is in the active phase of a multi-decadal cycle in which conditions in the ocean and atmosphere, including warmer than average sea-surface temperatures and low wind shear, enhance hurricane activity. this increase in the number and intensity of tropical storms and hurricanes can span multiple decades (approximately 20 to 30 years). there have been larger than long term average numbers of atlantic tropical storms and hurricanes in recent years although the impact on insurance losses is determined not by the number of storms that form, but by the number making landfall in populated areas with high insured values. there is widespread consensus in the scientific community that there is a long term upward trend in global air and sea temperatures and that this is likely to increase the frequency and severity of severe weather events over the coming decades. in addition, rising sea levels are expected to add to the risks associated with coastal flooding in many areas.   45 table of contents given the scientific uncertainty of predicting the effect of climate cycles and climate change on the frequency and severity of catastrophes and the lack of adequate predictive tools, we may not be able to adequately model the associated exposures and potential losses which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. our operating results may be adversely affected by one or more large losses from events other than natural catastrophes. large losses from single events can occur if we are exposed to such events through more than one insurance or reinsurance contract. such losses are referred to as “clash losses.” our results can be adversely affected if there is an unexpectedly large number of clash losses in a period or if there is one or more such loss of unexpectedly large value. we seek to manage our exposure to large losses from events other than natural catastrophes by identifying possible scenarios under which we could be exposed and limiting our exposure to these potential scenarios. some of the more significant scenarios which we have identified in this respect are terrorist attacks, fire, explosion or spill at a refinery or offshore oil and gas installation, a poison gas cloud, the collapse of a major office building, accidents at nuclear power stations, the collision of two ships and the loss of a passenger airplane. these risks are inherently unpredictable. it is difficult to predict the frequency of events of this nature and to estimate the amount of loss that any given occurrence will generate. to the extent that losses from these risks occur, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. our operating results may be adversely affected by an unexpected accumulation of attritional losses. in addition to our exposures to natural catastrophe and other large losses as discussed above, our operating results may also be adversely affected by unexpectedly large accumulations of smaller losses. we seek to manage this risk by using appropriate underwriting processes to guide the pricing and acceptance of risks. these processes, which include pricing models where appropriate, are intended to ensure that premiums received are sufficient to cover the expected levels of attritional loss as well as a contribution to the cost of natural catastrophes and large losses where necessary. however, it is possible that our underwriting approaches or our pricing models may not work as intended in this respect and that actual losses from a class of risks may be greater than expected thus causing adverse variation in our financial condition and/or operating results. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. claim and coverage issues can arise when the application of insurance or reinsurance policy language to potentially covered claims is unclear or disputed by the parties. when new such issues emerge they may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. in some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. as a result, the full extent of our liability under insurance or reinsurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. emerging claim and coverage issues could therefore have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   46 table of contents in particular, our exposure to casualty reinsurance and insurance lines increases our potential exposure to this risk due to the uncertainties of expanded theories of liability and the “long-tail” nature of these lines of business. we may face increased exposure as a result of litigation related to the 2008 crisis in financial markets and subsequent recessions, volatility in capital and credit markets, distressed financial institutions and sovereign debt crises. these economic and market conditions may increase allegations of misconduct, fraud and negligence, which may result in increased levels of insured claims arising in lines of business such as financial institutions, management liability and professional liability and in reinsurance of these lines. the full extent of our liability and exposure to claims of this sort may not be known for many years. this could adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. the monetary impact of certain claims may be hard to predict or ascertain upon inception and potential losses from such claims can be significant. for example, the full extent of our liability and exposure from claims of ‘bad faith’ is not ascertainable until the claim has been presented and investigated. as such, a significant claim in monetary terms on the basis of ‘bad faith’ could adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. the insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates and policy terms and conditions. historically the insurance and reinsurance industry has been cyclical. it is characterized by periods of intense competition on price and policy terms due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permit favorable premium levels. in addition, any prolonged economic downturn could result in reduced demand for insurance and reinsurance products which could adversely impact the pricing of our products. the supply of insurance and reinsurance may increase, either by capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing or new insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and fewer submissions for our underwriting services. in addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance business significantly, and we expect to experience the effects of such cyclicality. to the extent these trends emerge, our financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. a material proportion of our business relies on the assessment and pricing of individual risks by third parties, including insurance companies which we reinsure and agents to whom we delegate underwriting authority for certain insurance products. from time to time, we authorize managing general agents, general agents and other producers to write business on our behalf within underwriting authorities prescribed by us. we rely on the underwriting controls of these agents to write business within the underwriting authorities provided by us. although we monitor our underwriting on an ongoing basis, our monitoring efforts may not be adequate and our agents may exceed their underwriting authorities or otherwise breach obligations owed to us. if our agents exceed their authorities or otherwise breach obligations owed to us, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. this reliance on third-party assessment and pricing of individual risk extends to our reinsurance treaty business. in common with other reinsurers, we do not separately evaluate each of the individual   47 table of contents risks assumed under most reinsurance treaties. therefore, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. we are subject to the risk that the ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded to us may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume and the losses we may incur. the failure of any risk management and loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. we seek to mitigate our loss exposure by writing a number of our insurance and reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, such that we only pay losses that exceed a specified retention. we also seek to limit certain risks, such as natural catastrophe and political risks by geographic diversification. geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of zone boundaries and the allocation of policy limits to zones. in the case of proportional property reinsurance treaties, we seek per occurrence limitations or loss and loss expense ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one event, though we may not be able to obtain such limits in certain markets. various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage and choice of forum, intended to limit our risks may not be enforceable. we cannot be sure that any of these loss limitation methods will be effective or that disputes relating to coverage will be resolved in our favor. as a result of the risks that we insure and reinsure, unforeseen events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. reinsurance purchase is another loss limitation method we employ which may not always act in the way intended due to disputes relating to coverage or exclusions. the reinsurance that we purchase may not always be available on favorable terms or we may choose to retain a higher proportion of particular risks than in previous years. from time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amount of reinsurance or retrocession protection on terms that are acceptable to us from entities with a satisfactory credit rating. we also may choose to retain a higher proportion of particular risks than in previous years due to pricing, terms and conditions or strategic emphasis. we may seek alternative means to transfer risk, such as catastrophe bonds, contingent capital arrangements and other capital market solutions. these solutions may not provide commensurate levels of protection compared to traditional retrocession. our inability to obtain adequate reinsurance or other protection for our own account could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if actual claims exceed our loss reserves. our operating results and financial condition depend upon our ability to accurately assess the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure and reinsure. establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. to the extent actual claims exceed our expectations, we will be required immediately to recognize the less favorable experience. this could cause a   48 table of contents material increase in our provisions for liabilities and a reduction in our profitability, including operating losses and reduction of capital. if natural catastrophic events or other large losses occur, we may fail to adequately estimate our reserve requirements and our actual losses and loss expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from our reserve estimates. only reserves applicable to losses incurred up to the reporting date may be set aside in our financial statements, with no allowance for future losses. see item 1 above, “business — reserves” and part ii, item 7, “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations” for further description of our reserving process and methodology. there are specific areas of our selected reserves which have additional uncertainty associated with them. in property reinsurance, there is still the potential for adverse development from litigation associated with hurricane katrina and losses related to superstorm sandy and the 2011 catastrophe events, in particular the thai floods. in casualty reinsurance, there are additional uncertainties associated with claims emanating from the global financial crisis and the potential for new types of claim top arise given the long-tail nature of many of the reinsurance risks. in the insurance segment, we wrote a book of financial institutions risks which have a number of notifications relating to the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 and there is also a specific area of uncertainty relating to a book of new york contractor business. our calculation of reserves for losses and loss expenses also includes assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims-handling expenses, such as medical treatment and litigation costs. we write casualty business in the united states, the united kingdom, australia and certain other territories, where claims inflation has in many years run at higher rates than general inflation. to the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. see also part ii, item 7, “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.” market and liquidity risks our financial condition and financial results may be adversely affected by reductions in the value of our aggregate investment portfolio. our funds are invested by several professional investment management firms in accordance with detailed investment guidelines set by us. see “business — investments” under item 1, above. our investment policies stress diversification of risks, conservation of principal and liquidity through conservative investment guidelines. however, our investments are subject to a variety of financial and capital market risks, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility and risks inherent to particular securities. prolonged and severe disruptions in the public debt and equity markets, including, among other things, widening of credit spreads, bankruptcies, defaults, and significant ratings downgrades, may cause significant losses in our investment portfolio. market volatility can make it difficult to value certain securities if their trading becomes infrequent. depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial additional realized and unrealized investment losses in future periods. separately, the occurrence of large claims may force us to liquidate securities at an inopportune time, which may cause us to realize capital losses. large investment losses could decrease our asset base, thereby affecting our ability to underwrite new business. additionally, such losses could have a material adverse impact on our shareholders’ equity,   49 table of contents business and financial strength and debt ratings. for the twelve months ended december 31, 2012, $204.9 million of our income before tax was derived from our net invested assets. the aggregate performance of our investment portfolio depends to a significant extent on the ability of our investment managers to select and manage appropriate investments. as a result, we are also exposed to operational risks which may include, but are not limited to, a failure to follow our investment guidelines, technological and staffing deficiencies and inadequate disaster recovery plans. the failure of these investment managers to perform their services in a manner consistent with our expectations and investment objectives could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. unexpected volatility or illiquidity associated with some of our investments could significantly and negatively affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. we hold, or may in the future purchase, certain investments such as high yield bonds, bank loans, non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities which may have less liquidity than other fixed income securities. during the height of the financial crisis some high quality assets were more illiquid than expected. if we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. if we were forced to sell our assets in unfavorable market conditions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. as a result, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. our financial results may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. our reporting currency is the u.s. dollar. the functional currencies of our operations are the u.s. dollar, the british pound, the euro, the swiss franc, the australian dollar, the canadian dollar and the singaporean dollar. during the course of 2012, the u.s. dollar/british pound exchange rate, our most significant exchange rate exposure, fluctuated from a high of £1:$1.6268 to a low of £1:$1.5308. for the twelve months ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, 17.2%, 18.0% and 19.8%, respectively, of our gross premiums were written in currencies other than the u.s. dollar and the british pound. a portion of our loss reserves and investments are also in currencies other than the u.s. dollar and the british pound. we may, from time to time, experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of these non-u.s./non-british currencies, which could adversely affect our operating results. we use forward exchange contracts to manage some of our foreign currency exposure. however, it is possible that we will not successfully structure those contracts so as to effectively manage these risks, which could adversely affect our operating results. the continuation of heightened systemic financial risks, including excess sovereign debt, risks to the banking system and the eurozone debt crisis, could have a material adverse effect on global and regional economies and capital markets which could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition, financial results and liquidity. in recent years, global financial markets have been characterized by volatility and uncertainty. unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or make credit harder to obtain. developments in the financial markets may also affect our   50 table of contents counterparties which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. in the event of further deterioration or volatility in financial markets or general economic conditions, it could result in a prolonged economic downturn or recession and our operating results, financial position and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, global markets and economic conditions continue to be negatively impacted by the ability of certain eurozone member states to service their sovereign debt obligations. if the fiscal obligations of these eurozone member states continue to exceed their fiscal revenue, taking into account the reactions of the credit and swap markets, the ability of such member states to service their debt in a cost efficient manner will be impaired. the continued uncertainty over the outcome of various eurozone and international financial support programs and the possibility that other eurozone member states may experience similar financial pressures could further disrupt global markets. in particular, this crisis has disrupted and could further disrupt equity and fixed income markets and could result in volatile and unserviceable bond yields on the sovereign debt of some eurozone members. the issues arising out of the current eurozone debt crisis may cause investors to lose confidence in the safety and soundness of european financial institutions and the stability of eurozone member economies, and likewise affect u.k. and u.s.- based financial institutions, the stability of the global financial markets and any economic recovery. if a eurozone member state were to default on its obligations or seek to leave the eurozone, the impact on the financial and currency markets would be significant and could materially impact all financial institutions, including our business, financial condition, operating results and liquidity. credit risks our operating results may be adversely affected by the failure of policyholders, brokers or other intermediaries to honor their payment obligations to us. in accordance with industry practice, we generally pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts to brokers and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. although the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts and circumstances of the particular case, in some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, in a significant majority of business that we write, it is highly likely that we will be liable to the client for the deficiency because of local laws or contractual obligations. likewise, when the client pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers with respect to most of our insurance and reinsurance business. to date, we have not experienced any material losses related to such credit risks. in addition, bankruptcy, liquidity problems, distressed financial condition or the general effects of economic recession may increase the risk that policyholders may not pay a part of or the full amount of premiums owed to us, despite an obligation to do so. the terms of our contracts may not permit us to cancel our insurance even though we have not received payment. if non-payment becomes widespread, whether as a result of bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure or otherwise, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results.   51 table of contents our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected by the failure of one or more reinsurers to meet their payment obligation to us. we purchase reinsurance for our own account in order to mitigate the effect of certain large and multiple losses upon our financial condition. our reinsurers are dependent on their ratings in order to continue to write business, and some have suffered downgrades in ratings as a result of their exposures in the past. our reinsurers may also be affected by recent adverse developments in the financial markets, which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. a reinsurer’s insolvency, its inability to continue to write business or its reluctance to make timely payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us could have a material adverse effect on us because we may remain liable to our insureds or cedants in respect of the reinsured risks. the impairment of financial institutions increases our counterparty risk. we have exposure to many different counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutions. we also hold as investments various fixed income securities issued by financial institutions, which may be unsecured. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. in addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when our collateral cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. strategic risks we operate in a highly competitive environment, and substantial new capital inflows into the insurance and reinsurance industry may increase competition. insurance and reinsurance markets remain highly competitive. we continue to compete with existing international and regional insurers and reinsurers some of which have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. we also compete with new market entrants and with alternative capital markets, funds and other providers of insurance products such as insurance-linked securities, catastrophe bonds and derivatives. see “business — competition” under item 1, above for a list of our competitors. recently, insureds have retained a greater proportion of their risk portfolios than previously, and industrial and commercial companies have been increasingly relying upon their own subsidiary insurance companies, and other mechanisms for funding their risks, rather than risk transferring insurance. increased competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates, less favorable policy terms and conditions and greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, which could have a material adverse impact on our growth and profitability. we have recently experienced increased competition in some lines of business which has caused a decline in rate increases or a reduction in rates. see part ii, item 7, “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.”   52 table of contents recent events may result in political, regulatory and industry initiatives which could adversely affect our business. governments and regulatory bodies may take unpredictable action to ensure continued supply of insurance, particularly where a given event leads to withdrawal of capacity from the market. for example, as a result of the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, a number of government initiatives have been launched recently that are designed to stabilize market conditions. the u.s. federal government, federal reserve, u.k. treasury and government and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other extraordinary actions to address the global financial crisis. there can be no assurance as to the effect that any such governmental actions will have on the financial markets generally or on our competitive position, business and financial condition in particular, although we continue to monitor these and similar proposals. see “regulatory risks” below. our operating subsidiaries are rated, and our lloyd’s business benefits from a rating by one or more of a.m. best, s&p and moody’s, and a decline in any of these ratings could adversely affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease. ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. the ratings of our operating subsidiaries are subject to periodic review by, and may be placed on credit watch, revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, a.m. best, s&p or moody’s. if our or lloyd’s ratings are reduced from their current levels by any of a.m. best, moody’s or s&p, our competitive position in the insurance industry might suffer and it might be more difficult for us to market our products, expand our insurance and reinsurance portfolio and renew our existing insurance and reinsurance policies and agreements. a downgrade also may require us to establish trusts or post letters of credit for ceding company clients, and could trigger provisions allowing some clients to terminate their insurance and reinsurance contracts with us. some contracts also provide for the return of premium to the ceding client in the event of a downgrade. it is increasingly common for our reinsurance contracts to contain such terms. a significant downgrade could result in a substantial loss of business as ceding companies and brokers that place such business move to other reinsurers with higher ratings and therefore may materially and adversely impact our business, operating results, liquidity and financial flexibility. in addition, a downgrade of the financial strength rating of aspen u.k., aspen bermuda or aspen specialty by a.m. best below “b++” would constitute an event of default under our revolving credit facility with barclays bank plc and other lenders. similarly, a downgrade of aspen u.k. and aspen bermuda by a.m. best below “b++” would constitute an event of default under our letter of credit facility with barclays bank plc. a lower rating may lead to higher borrowing costs, thereby adversely impacting our liquidity and financial flexibility. acquisitions or strategic investments that we may make could turn out to be unsuccessful. as part of our long-term strategy, we may pursue growth through acquisitions and/or strategic investments in businesses or new underwriting or marketing platforms. the negotiation of potential acquisitions or strategic investments as well as the integration of an acquired business, new personnel, new underwriting or marketing platforms could result in a substantial diversion of management resources. acquisitions could involve numerous additional risks such as potential losses from   53 table of contents unanticipated litigation, higher levels of claims than is reflected in reserves and an inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. any future acquisitions or strategic investments may expose us to operational risks including:     •   integrating financial and operational reporting systems;     •   establishing satisfactory budgetary and other financial controls;     •   funding increased capital needs and overhead expenses;     •   the value of assets acquired may be lower than expected or may diminish due to credit defaults or changes in interest rates and liabilities assumed may be greater than expected; and     •   financial exposures in the event that the sellers of the entities we acquire are unable or unwilling to meet their indemnification, reinsurance and other obligations to us. we have limited experience in identifying quality merger candidates, as well as successfully acquiring and integrating their operations. our ability to manage our growth through acquisitions, strategic investments or new platforms will depend, in part, on our success in addressing these risks. any failure by us to effectively implement our acquisitions or strategic investment strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. since we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our insurance and reinsurance revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us. we market our insurance and reinsurance worldwide primarily through insurance and reinsurance brokers. see item 1 above, “business — business distribution” for our principal brokers by segment. several of these brokers also have, or may in the future acquire, ownership interests in insurance and reinsurance companies that compete with us, and these brokers may favor their own insurers or reinsurers over other companies. in addition, as brokers merge with, or acquire, each other, there could be further strain on our ability to access business due to a reduction in distribution channels. loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully, to deploy capital into more profitable business lines, to identify acquisition opportunities, to manage investments and preserve capital in volatile markets, and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. we monitor our capital adequacy on an ongoing basis. to the extent that our funds are insufficient to fund future operating requirements and/or cover claims losses, we may need to raise additional funds through corporate finance transactions or curtail our growth and reduce our liabilities. our additional needs for capital will depend on our actual claims experience, especially for catastrophic events. any equity, hybrid or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. in the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and, in any case, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our outstanding securities. if we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.   54 table of contents our debt, credit and international swap dealers association (isda) agreements may limit our financial and operational flexibility, which may affect our ability to conduct our business. we have incurred indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. additionally, we have entered into credit facilities with various institutions. under these credit facilities, the institutions provide revolving lines of credit to us and our major operating subsidiaries and issue letters of credit to our clients in the ordinary course of business. we have also entered into isda agreements relating to derivative transactions such as interest rate swaps. the agreements relating to our debt, credit facilities and our isda agreements contain covenants that may limit our ability, among other things, to borrow money, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, sell assets, merge or consolidate. some of these agreements also require us to maintain specified ratings and financial ratios, including a minimum net worth covenant. if we fail to comply with these covenants or meet required financial ratios, the lenders or counterparties under these agreements could declare a default and demand immediate repayment of all amounts owed to them. if we are in default under the terms of these agreements, then we may also be restricted in our ability to declare or pay any dividends, redeem, purchase or acquire any shares or make a liquidation payment and are at risk of cross-default on other arrangements. the development of our u.s.-based insurance operations is subject to execution risks and increased risk from changing market conditions. excess and surplus lines insurance forms a substantial portion of the business written by our u.s.-based insurance operations. excess and surplus lines insurance covers risks that are typically more complex and unusual than standard risks and require a high degree of specialized underwriting. as a result, excess and surplus lines risks do not often fit the underwriting criteria of standard insurance carriers. our excess and surplus lines insurance business fills the insurance needs of businesses with unique characteristics and is generally considered higher risk than those in the standard market. if our underwriting staff inadequately judges and prices the risks associated with the business underwritten in the excess and surplus lines market, our financial results could be adversely impacted. further, the excess and surplus lines market is significantly affected by the conditions of the property and casualty insurance market in general. this cyclicality can be more pronounced in the excess and surplus market than in the standard insurance market. during times of hard market conditions (when market conditions are more favorable to insurers), as rates increase and coverage terms become more restrictive, business tends to move from the admitted market to the excess and surplus lines market and growth in the excess and surplus market tends to accelerate faster than growth in the standard insurance market. when soft market conditions are prevalent (when market conditions are less favorable to insurers), standard insurance carriers tend to reduce underwriting standards and expand market share by moving into business lines traditionally characterized as excess and surplus lines, exacerbating the effect of rate decreases. if we fail to manage the cyclical nature and volatility of the revenues and profit we generate in the excess and surplus lines market, our financial results could be adversely impacted.   55 table of contents regulatory risks the regulatory systems under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our operating subsidiaries may not be able to maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations in territories where we currently engage in business or obtain them in new territories, or may be able to do so only at significant cost. in addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies or holding companies. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or to engage in certain activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could subject us to fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which our operating subsidiaries are subject could have a material adverse effect on our business. see “business — regulatory matters” in item 1, above. material changes in voting rights and connected party transactions may require regulatory approval or oversight by the fsa or other insurance regulators. insurance regulators, such as the fsa and the bma, impose certain requirements on operating entities they regulate including notification of shareholders, whether directly or indirectly, reaching certain levels of ownership. prior approval of ownership and transfer of shares by the regulators may be required under certain circumstances. if any entity were to hold 20% or more of the voting rights or 20% or more of the issued ordinary shares of aspen holdings, transactions between aspen u.k. and such entity may have to be reported to the fsa if the value of those transactions exceeds certain threshold amounts that would render them material connected party transactions. in these circumstances, we can give no assurance that these material connected party transactions will not be subject to regulatory intervention by the fsa or other insurance regulators. any transactions between companies within the aspen group that are material connected party transactions would also have to be reported to the fsa and other insurance regulators. we can give no assurance that the existence or effect of such connected party transactions and the fsa’s or any other insurance regulator’s assessment of the overall solvency of aspen holdings and its subsidiaries, even in circumstances where the operating subsidiary has on its face sufficient assets of its own to cover its required margin of solvency, would not result in regulatory intervention by the fsa or other insurance regulators with regard to such operating subsidiary. one or more of our insurance subsidiaries may be required by its regulator to hold additional capital to meet relevant solvency requirements. any of our operating subsidiaries may be required to hold additional capital in order to meet solvency requirements. for example, aspen u.k. is required to provide the fsa with information about aspen holdings’ notional solvency, which involves calculating the solvency position of aspen holdings in accordance with the fsa’s rules. in this regard, if aspen bermuda, aspen specialty, aaic or syndicate 4711 were to experience financial difficulties, it could affect the “solvency” position of aspen holdings and in turn trigger regulatory intervention by the fsa with respect to aspen u.k. the fsa requires insurers and reinsurers to calculate their ecr, an indicative measure of   56 table of contents the capital resources a firm may need to hold, based on risk-sensitive calculations applied to its business profile which includes capital charges based on assets, claims and premiums. the fsa may give insurers “individual capital guidance,” which may result in guidance that a company should hold capital in excess of the ecr. these changes may increase the required regulatory capital of aspen u.k., impacting our profitability. among other matters, bermuda statutes, regulations and policies of the bma require aspen bermuda to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity, to meet solvency standards. the bma has a risk-based capital adequacy model called the bscr to assist the bma both in measuring risk and in determining appropriate levels of capitalization. in 2011, the cissa for class 4 insurers was introduced which requires commercial insurers to perform an assessment of their own risk and solvency requirements. the cissa has the insurer determine the capital resources required to achieve its strategic goal, after it has assessed all reasonably foreseeable material risks arising from its operations or operational environment. these statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict aspen bermuda’s ability to write insurance and reinsurance policies, to make certain investments and to distribute funds. the e.u. directive on solvency ii may affect the way in which aspen u.k. manages its business and may lead to aspen bermuda posting collateral in respect of its eea cedants. an e.u. directive covering the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers, known as solvency ii, was adopted by the european parliament in april 2009. solvency ii presents a number of risks to aspen u.k. and amal. insurers are expecting to undertake a significant amount of work to ensure that they will meet the new requirements and this may divert finite resources from other business related activities. in addition, the measures implementing solvency ii are currently subject to a consultation process and are not expected to be finalized until 2015 at the earliest; consequently, aspen’s implementation plans are based on its current understanding of the solvency ii requirements, which may change. increases in capital requirements as a result of solvency ii may be required and may impact our operating results. further, under solvency ii, unless the european commission assesses the regulatory regime in bermuda as “equivalent” to solvency ii, then aspen bermuda may be required to post collateral in respect of any reinsurance of eea cedants, including aspen u.k., which may have a negative impact on aspen bermuda’s and aspen holdings’ results. under solvency ii, if a non-ec reinsurer is in a country that is deemed not equivalent, then an eea cedant may not be able to take any reinsurance into account for solvency purposes unless the non-ec reinsurer is of a certain minimum credit rating or collateral has been provided. therefore, if bermuda’s solvency regime is not deemed “equivalent” to solvency ii, then aspen bermuda’s eea cedants may require collateral from aspen bermuda in order for the cedant to take credit for such reinsurance. as of january 1, 2011, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (“eiopa”) has replaced the committee of european insurance and pensions supervisor. eiopa’s final advice to the european commission was that bermuda meets the criteria set out in eiopa’s methodology for equivalence assessments under solvency ii for insurers of aspen bermuda’s class but with certain qualifications. the activities of any of our insurance subsidiaries may be subject to review by insurance regulators of differing jurisdiction. review of the activities of our operating subsidiaries by regulators could exceed expectations. for example, aspen u.k. is authorized to do business in the united kingdom and has permission to conduct business in canada, switzerland, australia, singapore, france, ireland, germany, all other   57 table of contents eea states and certain latin american countries. in addition, aspen u.k. is eligible to write surplus lines business in 50 u.s. states, the district of columbia, puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands. we can give no assurance, however, that insurance regulators in the united states, bermuda or elsewhere will not review the activities of aspen u.k. and assess that aspen u.k. is subject to such jurisdiction’s licensing or other requirements. aspen bermuda does not maintain a principal office, and its personnel do not solicit, advertise, settle claims or conduct other activities that may constitute the transaction of the business of insurance or reinsurance, in any jurisdiction in which it is not licensed or otherwise not authorized to engage in such activities. although aspen bermuda does not believe it is or will be in violation of insurance laws or regulations of any jurisdiction outside bermuda, inquiries or challenges to aspen bermuda’s insurance or reinsurance activities may still be raised in the future. the offshore insurance and reinsurance regulatory environment has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the united states at both federal and state levels. compliance with any new laws, regulations or settlements impacting offshore insurers or reinsurers, such as aspen bermuda, could have a material adverse effect on our business. changes to the bermuda regulatory system, including changes to its group supervisory regime, could have a material adverse effect on our business. a number of bermuda registered (re)insurers operates within a group structure. this means that an insurer’s financial position and risk profile, and its overall prudential position, may be impacted by being part of a group. the bma has therefore established a group supervision framework for insurance groups to (1) ensure solvency at group level, (2) monitor inter-group transactions and (3) assess corporate governance, risk management and internal control processes. the bma has notified us that it will act as the group supervisor of the aspen group of companies and has designated aspen bermuda as the designated insurer. as group supervisor, the bma will (1) assess the aspen group’s compliance with the bma’s solvency rules, (2) perform ongoing supervisory review and assessment of the aspen group’s financial position and governance systems, (3) coordinate the gathering and dissemination of relevant or essential information, (4) convene and conduct supervisory colleges with other supervisory authorities that have regulatory oversight of entities within a group and (5) coordinate any enforcement action that may be taken against any of the members of the aspen group. the bma has published a number of consultation and discussion papers covering the following proposed regulatory changes which may or may not become adopted in present or revised form in the future:     •   the introduction, for solvency purposes, of an economic balance sheet to ensure that all assets and liabilities are valued on a consistent economic basis;     •   enhancements to the disclosure and transparency regime; and     •   the imposition of a minimum, or floor, for the minimum margin of solvency (“msm”) that would be equal to 25% of the ecr. the msm floor would apply only at the legal entity level. along with the implementation delays announced by the european commission, the bma has delayed, or deferred, some aspects of its regime change. for example, the economic balance sheet   58 table of contents process has been deferred to consider the direction of other international bodies such as the iasb. in addition, some aspects of the bma’s group capital requirements and the requirements for the group actuary have also been deferred. we are unable to predict with certainty how these laws, frameworks and/or regulations will be enforced or amended, the form in which any pending or future laws, frameworks and/or regulations could be adopted, the effectiveness of the coordination and cooperation of information sharing among supervisory bodies and regulators, such as the fsa, with the bma as group supervisor or the effect, if any, any of these developments would have on our operations and financial condition. the council of lloyd’s and the lloyd’s franchise board have wide discretionary powers to supervise members of lloyd’s. the council of lloyd’s may, for instance, vary the method by which the capital requirement is determined, or the investment criteria applicable to funds at lloyd’s. variance to the capital requirement determination method might affect the maximum amount of the overall premium income that we are able to underwrite. variation in both might affect our return on investments. the lloyd’s franchise board also has wide discretionary powers in relation to the business of lloyd’s managing agents, such as amal, including the requirement for compliance with the franchise performance and underwriting guidelines. the lloyd’s franchise board imposes certain restrictions on underwriting or on reinsurance arrangements for any lloyd’s syndicate and changes in these requirements imposed on us may have an adverse impact on our ability to underwrite which in turn will have an adverse effect on our financial performance. changes in lloyd’s regulation or the lloyd’s market could make syndicate 4711 less attractive. changes in lloyd’s regulation or other developments in the lloyd’s market could make operating syndicate 4711 less attractive. for example, lloyd’s imposes a number of charges on businesses operating in the lloyd’s market, including, for example, annual subscriptions and central fund levies for members and policy signing charges. despite the principle that each member of lloyd’s is only responsible for the proportion of risk written on his or her behalf, a central fund acts as a policyholder’s protection fund to make payments where other members have failed to pay valid claims. the council of lloyd’s may resolve to make payments from the central fund for the advancement and protection of members, which could lead to additional or special levies being payable by syndicate 4711. the bases and amounts of these charges may be varied by lloyd’s and could adversely affect our financial and operating results. syndicate 4711 may also be affected by a number of other changes in lloyd’s regulation, such as changes to the process for the release of profits and new member compliance requirements. the ability of lloyd’s syndicates to trade in certain classes of business at current levels may be dependent on the maintenance by lloyd’s of a satisfactory credit rating issued by an accredited rating agency. at present, the financial security of the lloyd’s market is regularly assessed by three independent rating agencies, a.m. best, s&p and fitch ratings. see “— our operating subsidiaries are rated, and our lloyd’s business benefits from a rating by one or more of a.m. best, s&p and moody’s, and a decline in any of these ratings could affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease,” above. the syndicate capital setting process within amal is subject to fsa rules but is conducted by lloyd’s under its detailed procedures. lloyd’s could request an increase in capital under the fsa rules   59 table of contents in similar circumstances as set out above in the section on aspen u.k. lloyd’s as whole, including syndicate 4711, is also subject to the provisions of solvency ii as noted above. potential changes to the u.s. regulatory system could have an adverse effect on the business of our u.s. operating companies. aspen specialty is organized in and has received a license to write certain lines of insurance business in the state of north dakota and, as a result, is subject to north dakota law and regulation under the supervision of the ndci. aaic is organized in texas and has licenses to write property and casualty insurance business on an admitted basis in all 50 states and the district of columbia. north dakota and texas also have regulatory authority over a number of affiliate transactions between the insurance companies and other members of our holding company system. the purpose of the state insurance regulatory statutes is to protect u.s. policyholders, not our shareholders or noteholders. among other matters, state insurance regulations will require aspen entities to maintain minimum levels of capital, surplus and liquidity, require insurers to comply with applicable risk-based capital requirements and will impose restrictions on the payment of dividends and distributions. these statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict the ability of aspen entities in the u.s. to write new business or distribute assets to aspen holdings. recently, the naic adopted revisions to its model law and regulation relating to insurance holding companies. a number of states have adopted or are considering adopting proposals to amend their insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of regulation. the amendments address a number of standards that affect insurance holding company systems, including corporate governance, group-wide supervision, accounting for group-wide risks in risk-based capital calculations and imposition of additional disclosure obligations. as the naic continues its solvency modernization initiative, additional changes may be made to solvency regulations in various state laws and regulations. in recent years, the u.s. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. in addition, the u.s. congress has enacted legislation providing a greater role for the federal government in the regulation of insurance. moreover, the naic and state insurance regulators regularly examine existing laws and regulations. new laws and regulations or changes in existing laws and regulations or the interpretation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. changes in u.s. state insurance legislation and insurance department legislation may impact liabilities assumed by our business. aspen specialty, aaic, aspen u.k. and various affiliates are subject to periodic changes in u.s. state insurance legislation and insurance department regulation which may materially affect the liabilities assumed by the companies in such states. for example, as a result of natural disasters, emergency orders and related regulations may be periodically issued or enacted by individual states. this may impact the cancellation or non-renewal of property policies issued in those states for an extended period of time, increasing the potential liability to the company on such extended policies. failure to adhere to these regulations could result in the imposition of fines, fees, penalties and loss of approval to write business in such states. certain states with catastrophe exposures (e.g., california earthquakes, florida hurricanes) have opted to establish state-run, state-owned reinsurers that compete with us and our peers. these entities tend to reduce the amount of business available to us.   60 table of contents from time to time, government authorities seek to more closely monitor and regulate the insurance industry, which may adversely affect our business. the attorneys general for multiple states and other insurance regulatory authorities have previously investigated a number of issues and practices within the insurance industry, and in particular insurance brokerage compensation practices. to the extent that state regulation of brokers and intermediaries becomes more onerous, costs of regulatory compliance for aspen management, asis, aspen re america and ara-ca will increase. finally, to the extent that any of the brokers with whom we do business suffer financial difficulties as a result of the investigations or proceedings, we could suffer increased credit risk. see “— since we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our insurance and reinsurance revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us” above. these investigations of the insurance industry in general, whether involving the company specifically or not, together with any legal or regulatory proceedings, related settlements and industry reform or other changes arising therefrom, may materially adversely affect our business and future financial results or operating results. the preparation of our financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments that are more difficult than companies operating outside the financial sector. the preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities (including reserves), revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent liabilities. on an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, insurance and other reserves, reinsurance recoverables, investment valuations, intangible assets, bad debts, impairments, income taxes, contingencies, derivatives and litigation. we base our estimates on historical experience, where possible, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. estimates and judgments for a relatively new insurance and reinsurance company, like us, are more difficult to make than those made for a more mature company because we have more limited historical information through december 31, 2012. a significant part of our current loss reserves is in respect of ibnr. this ibnr reserve is based almost entirely on estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs. in addition to limited historical information, we utilize actuarial models as well as historical insurance industry loss development patterns to establish loss reserves. accordingly, actual claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results. unanticipated developments in accounting practices may require us to incur considerable additional expenses to comply with such developments, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. the impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted but may affect the calculation of net income, net equity and other relevant financial statement line items. in   61 table of contents particular, the u.s. financial accounting standards board (“fasb”) and the international accounting standards board (“iasb”) have been working jointly on an insurance contract project, resulting in the issuance of an exposure draft by the iasb in june 2010 and a discussion paper by the fasb in september 2010. fasb and iasb are deliberating significant issues based on feedback received to iasb’s 2010 exposure draft and fasb’s 2010 discussion paper. the proposed guidance on accounting for and reporting of insurance contracts by these two boards would result in a material change from the current insurance accounting models toward more fair value-based models. additionally, each board recently issued exposure drafts for the accounting for and reporting of financial instruments, which may lead to further recognition of fair value changes through net income. these two proposals could introduce significant volatility in the earnings of insurance industry participants. there is considerable uncertainty with respect to the final outcome of these two proposed standards. other operational risks we could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more of our senior underwriters or principal employees or by an inability to attract and retain senior staff. our success has depended, and will continue to depend in substantial part, upon our ability to attract and retain our teams of underwriters in various business lines and other key employees. the loss of one or more of our senior underwriters could adversely impact our business by, for example, making it more difficult to retain clients or other business contacts whose relationship depends in part on the service of the departing personnel. in addition, the loss of services of underwriters could strain our ability to execute our new business lines, as described elsewhere in this report. in general, the loss of key services of any members of our current underwriting teams may adversely affect our business and operating results. we also rely substantially upon the services of our senior management team. although we have employment agreements with all of the members of our senior management team, if we were to unexpectedly lose the services of one or more of the members of our senior management team or other key personnel, our business could be adversely affected. we do not currently maintain key-man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. changes in employment laws, taxation and acceptable compensation practice may limit our ability to attract senior employees to our current operating platforms. our insurance and reinsurance operations are, by their nature, international and we compete for senior employees on a global basis. changes in employment legislation, taxation and the approach of regulatory bodies to compensation practice within our operating jurisdictions may impact our ability to recruit or retain senior employees or the cost to us of doing so. any failure to retain senior employees may adversely affect the strategic growth of our business and the operating results. we may be adversely affected by action taken against us by former employers of our staff who allege that their former employees may be in breach of legal obligations to them. within our industry it is common for employers to seek to restrict an employee’s ability either to work for a competitor or to engage in business activities with the customers or staff of a former employer after leaving employment. in addition, our employees may owe statutory or fiduciary obligations to former employers. the extent of any such post-termination restrictions and the extent to   62 table of contents which any alleged contractual restrictions are enforceable is highly fact specific and dependent upon the local laws in the applicable jurisdiction in any case. action taken by former employers to enforce such restrictions, however, even if ultimately found not to be legally binding, may adversely affect our ability to pursue current business objectives. we rely on third-party service providers for some of our operations and systems. we rely on third-party service providers for a variety of services and systems, which include, but are not limited to, claims handling activity, support on our underwriting and finance systems, investment management and catastrophe modeling. if our third-party service providers fail to perform as expected, it could have a negative impact on our business and operating results. we rely on information and technology for many of our business operations which could fail and cause disruption to our business operations. our business is dependent upon our employees’ and outsourcers’ ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as processing policies and paying claims. a shutdown of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities, a power outage or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. computer viruses, cyberattacks, other external hazards and human error could result in the misappropriation of assets or sensitive information, corruption of data or operational disruption. if sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure, service denial or data loss and damage could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely fashion or perform other necessary business functions. we do not perform online customer transactions and our externally-accessible systems are for staff remote access use only. nevertheless, we continually monitor risks to our information technology, telecommunications and other systems and believe we have the necessary measures appropriate to prevent and manage those risks. our key technologies are largely resilient and secure in line with current financial services best practice. risks related to our ordinary shares our ability to pay dividends or to meet ongoing cash requirements may be constrained by our holding company structure. we are a holding company and, as such, we do not expect to have any significant operations or assets other than our ownership of the shares of our operating subsidiaries. dividends and other permitted distributions and loans from our operating subsidiaries are expected to be our sole source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including our debt service payments and other expenses, and dividend payments, to our preference and ordinary shareholders, as appropriate. our operating subsidiaries are subject to capital and other requirements that inform their ability to declare and pay dividends and make loans to other group companies. these requirements may mean that our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay sufficient dividends to enable us to meet our ongoing cash requirements. see “business — regulatory matters — bermuda regulation — restrictions on dividends and distributions,” “business — regulatory matters — u.k. and e.u. regulation — restrictions on dividend payments,” and “business — regulatory matters — u.s. regulation — state dividend limitations” in item 1, above.   63 table of contents certain regulatory and other constraints may limit our ability to pay dividends. we are subject to bermuda regulatory constraints that affect our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares and make other distributions. under the bermuda companies act, we may declare or pay a dividend out of contributed surplus only if we have reasonable grounds to believe that we are, and would after the payment be, able to meet our liabilities as they become due or if the realizable value of our assets would thereby not be less than the aggregate of our liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. for more information regarding restrictions on the payment of dividends by us and our operating subsidiaries, see “business — regulatory matters” in item 1, above and “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations — liquidity” in part ii, item 7. there are provisions in our charter documents which may reduce or increase the voting rights of our ordinary shares. in general, and except as provided below, shareholders have one vote for each ordinary share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. however, if, and so long as, the ordinary shares of a shareholder are treated as “controlled shares” (as determined under section 958 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the “code”)) of any u.s. person (as defined below) and such controlled shares constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by our issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares of such u.s. person (a “9.5% u.s. shareholder”) shall be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5%, under a formula specified in our bye-laws. the formula is applied repeatedly until the voting power of all 9.5% u.s. shareholders has been reduced to less than 9.5%. in addition, the board may limit a shareholder’s voting rights (including appointment rights, if any, granted to holders of our perpetual preferred income equity replacement securities (the “perpetual piers”) or to holders of our 7.250% perpetual non-cumulative preference shares or 7.401% perpetual non-cumulative preference shares (liquidation preference $25 per share) (collectively, the “perpetual preference shares”) where it deems it appropriate to do so to (i) avoid the existence of any 9.5% u.s. shareholder, and (ii) avoid certain material adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us or any holder of our shares or its affiliates. “controlled shares” includes, among other things, all shares of the company that such u.s. person is deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the code). as of december 31, 2012, there were 70,753,723 ordinary shares outstanding of which 6,721,604 ordinary shares would constitute 9.5% of the votes conferred by our issued and outstanding shares. for purposes of this discussion, the term “u.s. person” means: (i) a citizen or resident of the united states, (ii) a partnership or corporation, or entity treated as a corporation, created or organized in or under the laws of the united states, or any political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to u.s. federal income taxation regardless of its source, or (iv) a trust if either (x) a court within the united states is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more u.s. persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (y) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a u.s. person for u.s. federal income tax purposes or (z) any other person or entity that is treated for u.s. federal income tax purposes as if it were one of the foregoing. under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. see part ii, item 5, “market for registrant’s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer   64 table of contents purchaser of equity securities — bye-laws.” moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.5% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. our bye-laws provide that shareholders will be notified of their voting interests prior to any vote to be taken by them. as a result of any reallocation of votes, voting rights of some of our shareholders might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding ordinary shares, thereby possibly resulting in such shareholders becoming a reporting person subject to schedule 13d or 13g filing requirements under the exchange act. in addition, the reallocation of the votes of our shareholders could result in some of the shareholders becoming subject to filing requirements under section 16 of the exchange act. we also have the authority under our bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated under the bye-laws. if a shareholder fails to respond to our request for information or submits incomplete or inaccurate information in response to a request by us, we may, in our sole discretion, eliminate such shareholder’s voting rights. there are provisions in our bye-laws which may restrict the ability to transfer ordinary shares and which may require shareholders to sell their ordinary shares. the board may decline to register a transfer of any ordinary shares if it appears to the board, in its sole and reasonable discretion, after taking into account the limitations on voting rights contained in our bye-laws, that any non-de minimis adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders or their affiliates may occur as a result of such transfer. our bye-laws also provide that if the board determines that share ownership by a person may result in material adverse tax consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any shareholder or its affiliates, then we have the option, but not the obligation, to require that shareholder to sell to us or to third parties to whom we assign the repurchase right for fair market value the minimum number of ordinary shares held by such person which is necessary to eliminate the material adverse tax consequences. anti-takeover provisions in our bye-law and laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where we conduct business could delay or deter a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider to be desirable and may make it more difficult to replace members of our board. our bye-laws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. in addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. for example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our ordinary shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. for example, our bye-laws contain the following provisions that could have such an effect:     •   election of directors is staggered, meaning that members of only one of three classes of directors are elected each year;     •   directors serve for a term of three years (unless aged 70 years or older);   65 table of contents   •   our directors may decline to approve or register any transfer of shares to the extent they determine, in their sole discretion, that any non-de minimis adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to aspen holdings, any of its subsidiaries, shareholders or affiliates would result from such transfer;     •   if our directors determine that share ownership by any person may result in material adverse tax consequences to aspen holdings, any of its subsidiaries, shareholders or affiliates, we have the option, but not the obligation, to purchase or assign to a third party the right to purchase the minimum number of shares held by such person solely to the extent that it is necessary to eliminate such material risk;     •   shareholders have limited ability to remove directors; and     •   if the ordinary shares of any u.s. person constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by the issued shares of aspen holdings, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares of such u.s. person shall be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5%. in addition, as described under part i, item 1, “business — regulatory matters”, prospective shareholders are required to notify our regulators on becoming “controllers” of any of our operating subsidiaries through ownership of aspen holdings shares above certain thresholds, typically 10% of outstanding shares. some regulators, such as the fsa, require their approval prior to such shareholder becoming a “controller”. other regulators may serve a notice of objection or are entitled to injunctive relief. there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory body would agree that a shareholder who owned greater than 10% of our ordinary shares did not, because of the limitation on the voting power of such shares, control the applicable operating subsidiary. these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of the company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. if these restrictions delay, deter or prevent a change of control, such restrictions may make it more difficult to replace members of our board and may have the effect of entrenching management regardless of their performance. we cannot pay a dividend on our ordinary shares unless the full dividends for the most recently ended dividend period on all outstanding perpetual piers, underlying perpetual preference shares and perpetual preference shares have been declared and paid. our perpetual piers, our perpetual preference shares that are issuable upon conversion of our perpetual piers at the option of the holders thereof and our perpetual preference shares will rank senior to our ordinary shares with respect to the payment of dividends. as a result, unless the full dividends for the most recently ended dividend period on all outstanding perpetual piers, underlying perpetual preference shares and perpetual preference shares have been declared and paid (or declared and a sum (or, if we so elect with respect to our perpetual piers and underlying perpetual preference shares, ordinary shares) sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside), we cannot declare or pay a dividend on our ordinary shares. under the terms of our perpetual piers and our perpetual preference shares, these restrictions will continue until full dividends on all outstanding perpetual piers, underlying perpetual preference shares and perpetual preference shares for four consecutive dividend periods have been declared and paid (or declared and a sum (or, if we so elect with respect to our perpetual piers and underlying perpetual preference shares, ordinary shares) sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for payment).   66 table of contents our ordinary shares rank junior to our perpetual piers, underlying perpetual preference shares and perpetual preference shares in the event of a liquidation, winding up or dissolution of the company. in the event of a liquidation, winding up or dissolution of the company, our ordinary shares rank junior to our perpetual piers, our perpetual preference shares issuable upon conversion of our perpetual piers and our perpetual preference shares. in such an event, there may not be sufficient assets remaining, after payments to holders of our perpetual piers, underlying perpetual preference shares and perpetual preference shares, to ensure payments to holders of ordinary shares. u.s. persons who own our ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than u.s. persons who are shareholders of a u.s. corporation. the companies act, which applies to us, differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and their shareholders. set forth below is a summary of certain significant provisions of the companies act which includes, where relevant, information on modifications thereto adopted under our bye-laws, applicable to us, which differ in certain respects from provisions of delaware corporate law (the state that is most renowned for its corporate law statutes). because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders. interested directors.  under bermuda law and our bye-laws, a transaction entered into by us, in which a director has an interest, will not be voidable by us, and such director will not be accountable to us for any benefit realized under that transaction, provided the nature of the interest is disclosed at the first opportunity at a meeting of directors, or in writing, to the directors. in addition, our bye-laws allow a director to be taken into account in determining whether a quorum is present and to vote on a transaction in which that director has an interest following a declaration of the interest under the companies act, unless the majority of the disinterested directors determine otherwise. under delaware law, the transaction would not be voidable if:     •   the material facts as to the interested director’s relationship or interests were disclosed or were known to the board and the board in good faith authorized the transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors;     •   the material facts were disclosed or were known to the shareholders entitled to vote on such transaction and the transaction was specifically approved in good faith by vote of the majority of shares entitled to vote thereon; or     •   the transaction was fair as to the corporation at the time it was authorized, approved or ratified. business combinations with large shareholders or affiliates.  as a bermuda company, we may enter into business combinations with our large shareholders or one or more wholly-owned subsidiaries, including asset sales and other transactions in which a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary receives, or could receive, a financial benefit that is greater than that received, or to be received, by other shareholders or other wholly-owned subsidiaries, without obtaining prior approval from our shareholders and without special approval from the board. under bermuda law, amalgamations and mergers require the approval of the board, and except in the case of amalgamations with and between wholly-owned subsidiaries, shareholder approval. however, when the affairs of a bermuda company are being conducted in a manner which is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to a bermuda court, which   67 table of contents may make an order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company’s affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or the company. if we were a delaware company, we would need prior approval from the board or a supermajority of our shareholders to enter into a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years from the time the person became an interested shareholder, unless we opted out of the relevant delaware statute. bermuda law or our bye-laws would require the board’s approval and, in some instances, shareholder approval of such transactions. shareholders’ suits.  the rights of shareholders under bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders in many u.s. jurisdictions. class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of bermuda. however, the bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow english case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence a derivative action in our name to remedy a wrong done to us where an act is alleged to be beyond our corporate power, is illegal or would result in the violation of our memorandum of association or bye-laws. furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. the winning party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the action. our bye-laws provide that shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in the right of the company, against any director or officer for any act or failure to act in the performance of such director’s or officer’s duties, except with respect to any fraud or dishonesty of the director or officer or to recover any gain, personal profit or advantage to which the director or officer is not legally entitled. class actions and derivative actions generally are available to shareholders under delaware law for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. in such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the action. indemnification of directors and officers.  under bermuda law and our bye-laws, we may indemnify our directors, officers, any other person appointed to a committee of the board or resident representative (and their respective heirs, executors or administrators) to the full extent permitted by law against all actions, costs, charges, liabilities, loss, damage or expense, incurred or suffered by such persons by reason of any act done, conceived in or omitted in the conduct of our business or in the discharge of their duties; provided that such indemnification shall not extend to any matter which would render such indemnification void under the companies act. under delaware law, a corporation may indemnify a director or officer of the corporation against expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in defense of an action, suit or proceeding by reason of such position if (i) such director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and (ii) with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such director or officer had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. we are a bermuda company and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. we are incorporated under the laws of bermuda and our business is based in bermuda. in addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the united states, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the united states. as such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the united states upon us or those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of u.s. courts, including judgments predicated   68 table of contents upon civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal securities laws. further, no claim may be brought in bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of u.s. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under bermuda law and do not have force of law in bermuda. a bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under bermuda law. we have been advised by bermuda counsel that there is no treaty in force between the u.s. and bermuda providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. as a result, whether a u.s. judgment would be enforceable in bermuda against us or our directors and officers depends on whether the u.s. court that entered the judgment is recognized by the bermuda court as having jurisdiction over us or our directors and officers, as determined by reference to bermuda conflict of law rules. a judgment debt from a u.s. court that is final and for a sum certain based on u.s. federal securities laws will not be enforceable in bermuda unless the judgment debtor had submitted to the jurisdiction of the u.s. court, and the issue of submission and jurisdiction is a matter of bermuda (not u.s.) law. in addition to and irrespective of jurisdictional issues, the bermuda courts will not enforce a u.s. federal securities law that is either penal or contrary to public policy. it is the advice of our bermuda counsel that an action brought pursuant to a public or penal law, the purpose of which is the enforcement of a sanction, power or right at the instance of the state in its sovereign capacity, will not be entertained by a bermuda court. certain remedies available under the laws of u.s. jurisdictions, including certain remedies under u.s. federal securities laws, would not be available under bermuda law or enforceable in a bermuda court, as they would be contrary to bermuda public policy. further, no claim may be brought in bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of u.s. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under bermuda law and do not have force of law in bermuda. a bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under bermuda law. risks related to taxation our non-u.s. companies (other than aul) may be subject to u.s. income tax and that may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and your investment. if aspen holdings or any of its non-u.s. subsidiaries (other than aul) were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the united states, it could be subject to u.s. corporate income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such u.s. business, in which case its operating results could be materially adversely affected (although its operating results should not be materially adversely affected if aspen u.k. is considered to be engaged in a u.s. trade or business solely as a result of the binding authorities granted to aspen re america, ara-ca, asis, aspen management and aspen solutions. aspen holdings, aspen bermuda and acorn are bermuda companies, aspen u.k. holdings, aspen u.k., aspen u.k. services, amal, aul, aiuk trustees, arml, apj, aspen recoveries and aussl are u.k. companies and apj jersey is a jersey company. we intend to manage our business so that each of these companies (other than aul) will operate in such a manner that none of these companies should be subject to u.s. tax (other than u.s. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring u.s. risks and u.s. withholding tax on certain   69 table of contents u.s. source investment income, and the likely imposition of u.s. corporate income and additional branch profits tax on the profits attributable to the business of aspen u.k. produced pursuant to the binding authorities granted to aspen re america, ara-ca, asis, aspen solutions and aspen management, as well as the binding authorities previously granted to wellington underwriting inc. (“wu inc.”) because none of these companies should be treated as engaged in a trade or business within the united states (other than aspen u.k. with respect to the business produced pursuant to the aspen re america, ara-ca, asis, aspen management and prior wu inc. binding authorities agreements). however, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the united states, we cannot be certain that the u.s. internal revenue service (“irs”) will not contend successfully that some or all of aspen holdings or its non-u.s. subsidiaries (other than aul) is/are engaged in a trade or business in the united states based on activities in addition to the binding authorities discussed above. aul is a member of lloyd’s and subject to a closing agreement between lloyd’s and the irs (the “closing agreement”). pursuant to the terms of the closing agreement all members of lloyd’s, including aul, are subject to u.s. federal income taxation. those members that are entitled to the benefits of a u.s. income tax treaty are deemed to be engaged in a u.s. trade or business through a u.s. permanent establishment. those members not entitled to the benefits of such a treaty are merely deemed to be engaged in a u.s. trade or business. the closing agreement provides rules for determining the income considered to be attributable to the permanent establishment or u.s. trade or business. we believe that aul may be entitled to the benefits of the u.s. income tax treaty with the u.k. (the “u.k. treaty”), although the position is not certain. our non-u.k. companies may be subject to u.k. tax that may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. none of our subsidiaries, except for aspen u.k. holdings, aspen u.k., aspen u.k. services, amal, aul, aiuk trustees, arml, apj, aspen recoveries and aussl (collectively, the “u.k. subsidiaries”), is incorporated in the united kingdom. accordingly, none of us, other than the u.k. subsidiaries, should be treated as being resident in the united kingdom for corporation tax purposes except for apj jersey which, although not incorporated in the united kingdom, is treated as resident in the united kingdom as a result of its central management and control being exercised from the united kingdom. each of us, other than the u.k. subsidiaries and apj jersey, currently intends to manage our affairs so that none of us, other than the u.k. subsidiaries and apj jersey, is resident in the united kingdom for tax purposes. a company not resident in the united kingdom for corporation tax purposes can nevertheless be subject to u.k. corporation tax if it carries on a trade through a permanent establishment in the united kingdom but the charge to u.k. corporation tax is limited to profits (including revenue profits and capital gains) attributable directly or indirectly to such permanent establishment. each of us, other than the u.k. subsidiaries and apj jersey, currently intends that we will operate in such a manner so that none of us (other than the u.k. subsidiaries and apj jersey), carries on a trade through a permanent establishment in the united kingdom. nevertheless, because neither case law nor u.k. statute definitively defines the activities that constitute trading in the united kingdom through a permanent establishment, her majesty’s revenue and customs might contend successfully that any of us (other than the u.k. subsidiaries and apj jersey) are trading in the united kingdom through a permanent establishment.   70 table of contents the united kingdom has no income tax treaty with bermuda. there are circumstances in which companies that are neither resident in the united kingdom nor entitled to the protection afforded by a double tax treaty between the united kingdom and the jurisdiction in which they are resident may be exposed to income tax in the united kingdom (other than by deduction or withholding) on the profits of a trade carried on there even if that trade is not carried on through a permanent establishment but each of us intends that we will operate in such a manner that none of us will fall within the charge to income tax in the united kingdom (other than by deduction or withholding) in this respect. if any of us, other than the u.k. subsidiaries and apj jersey, were treated as being resident in the united kingdom for u.k. corporation tax purposes, or as carrying on a trade in the united kingdom, whether or not through a permanent establishment, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. our u.k. operations may be affected by future changes in u.k. tax law. the u.k. subsidiaries and apj jersey should be treated as resident in the united kingdom and accordingly be subject to u.k. tax in respect of their worldwide income and gains. any change in the basis or rate of u.k. corporation tax could materially adversely affect the operations of the u.k. companies. the u.k. corporation tax rate has reduced from 26% to 24% with effect from april 1, 2012, and will further reduce to 23% with effect from april 1, 2013. our u.k. and u.s. operations may be adversely affected by a transfer pricing adjustment in computing u.k. or u.s. taxable profits. any arrangements between u.k.-resident entities of the aspen group and other members of the aspen group are subject to the u.k. transfer pricing regime. consequently, if any agreement (including any reinsurance agreements) between a u.k.-resident entity of the aspen group and any other aspen group entity (whether that entity is resident in or outside the u.k.) is found not to be on arm’s length terms and as a result a u.k. tax advantage is being obtained, an adjustment will be required to compute u.k. taxable profits as if such an agreement were on arm’s length terms. similar rules apply in the u.s and would have a similar impact on our u.s. resident entities if transfer pricing adjustments were required. any transfer pricing adjustment could adversely impact the tax charge suffered by the relevant u.k. or u.s. resident entities of the aspen group. holders of 10% or more of aspen holdings’ shares may be subject to u.s. income taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation” (“cfc”) rules. if you are a “10% u.s. shareholder” (defined as a u.s. person (as defined below) who owns (directly, indirectly through non-u.s. entities or “constructively” (as defined below)) at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of a non-u.s. corporation), that is a cfc for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and you own shares in the non-u.s corporation directly or indirectly through non-u.s. entities on the last day of the non-u.s. corporation’s taxable year on which it is a cfc, you must include in your gross income for u.s. federal income tax purposes your pro rata share of the cfc’s “subpart f income,” even if the subpart f income is not distributed. “subpart f income” of a non-u.s. insurance corporation typically includes “foreign personal holding company income” (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment   71 table of contents income). a non-u.s. corporation is considered a cfc if “10% u.s. shareholders” own (directly, indirectly through non-u.s. entities or by attribution by application of the constructive ownership rules of section 958(b) of the code (i.e., “constructively”)) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of that non-u.s. corporation, or the total value of all stock of that non-u.s. corporation. for purposes of taking into account insurance income, a cfc also includes a non-u.s. corporation earning insurance income in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned by 10% u.s. shareholders on any day during the taxable year of such corporation, if the gross amount of premiums or other consideration for the reinsurance or the issuing of insurance or annuity contracts (other than certain insurance or reinsurance related to some country risks written by certain insurance companies, not applicable here) exceeds 75% of the gross amount of all premiums or other consideration in respect of all risks. for purposes of this discussion, the term “u.s. person” means: (i) a citizen or resident of the united states, (ii) a partnership or corporation created or organized in or under the laws of the united states, or organized under the laws of any political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to u.s. federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if either (x) a court within the united states is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more u.s. persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (y) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a u.s. person for u.s. federal income tax purposes and (v) any other person or entity that is treated for u.s. federal income tax purposes as if it were one of the foregoing. we believe that because of the anticipated dispersion of our share ownership, provisions in our organizational documents that limit voting power (these provisions are described under “bye-laws” in part ii, item 5 below) and other factors, no u.s. person who owns shares of aspen holdings directly or indirectly through one or more non-u.s. entities should be treated as owning (directly, indirectly through non-u.s. entities, or constructively) 10% or more of the total voting power of all classes of shares of aspen holdings or any of its non-u.s. subsidiaries. it is possible, however, that the irs could successfully challenge the effectiveness of these provisions. u.s. persons who hold our shares may be subject to u.s. income taxation at ordinary income rates on their proportionate share of our “related party insurance income” (“rpii”). if the rpii (determined on a gross basis) of any of our non-u.s. operating subsidiaries were to equal or exceed 20% of that company’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to those insureds) own directly or indirectly through entities 20% or more of the voting power or value of aspen holdings, then a u.s. person who owns any shares of such non-u.s. operating subsidiary (directly or indirectly through non-u.s. entities) on the last day of the taxable year on which it is an rpii cfc would be required to include in its income for u.s. federal income tax purposes such person’s pro rata share of such company’s rpii for the entire taxable year, determined as if such rpii were distributed proportionately only to u.s. persons at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed, in which case your investment could be materially adversely affected. in addition, any rpii that is includible in the income of a u.s. tax-exempt organization may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. the amount of rpii earned by a non-u.s. operating subsidiary (generally, premium and related investment income from the indirect or direct insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect u.s. holder of shares or any person related to such holder) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or   72 table of contents reinsured by the company. we believe that the direct or indirect insureds of each of our non-u.s. operating subsidiaries (and related persons) did not directly or indirectly own 20% or more of either the voting power or value of our shares in prior years of operation and we do not expect this to be the case in the foreseeable future. additionally, we do not expect gross rpii of each of our foreign operating subsidiaries to equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year for the foreseeable future, but we cannot be certain that this will be the case because some of the factors which determine the extent of rpii may be beyond our control. u.s. persons who dispose of our shares may be subject to u.s. federal income taxation at the rates applicable to dividends on a portion of such disposition. section 1248 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, in conjunction with the rpii rules provides that if a u.s. person disposes of shares in a non-u.s. corporation that earns insurance income in which u.s. persons own 25% or more of the shares (even if the amount of gross rpii is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income and the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold), any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to rpii). in addition, such a holder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the holder. these rpii rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because aspen holdings will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business. the rpii provisions, however, have never been interpreted by the courts or the treasury department in final regulations, and regulations interpreting the rpii provisions of the code exist only in proposed form. it is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of the rpii rules by the irs, the courts, or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. the treasury department has authority to impose, among other things, additional reporting requirements with respect to rpii. accordingly, the meaning of the rpii provisions and the application thereof to us is uncertain. u.s. persons who hold our shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company (“pfic”) for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if we are considered a pfic for u.s. federal income tax purposes, a u.s. person who owns any of our shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case your investment could be materially adversely affected. in addition, if we were considered a pfic, upon the death of any u.s. individual owning shares, such individual’s heirs or estate would not be entitled to a “step-up” in the basis of the shares that might otherwise be available under u.s. federal income tax laws. we believe that we are not, have not been, and currently do not expect to become, a pfic for u.s. federal income tax purposes. we cannot assure you, however, that we will not be deemed a pfic by the irs. if we were considered a pfic, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to u.s. federal income taxation. there are currently no regulations regarding the application of the pfic provisions to an insurance company. new regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. we cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to u.s. federal income taxation.   73 table of contents u.s. tax-exempt organizations who own our shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income. a u.s. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of the insurance income of any of our non-u.s. operating subsidiaries is allocated to the organization, which generally would be the case if any of our non-u.s. operating subsidiaries is a cfc and the tax-exempt shareholder is a u.s. 10% shareholder or there is rpii, certain exceptions do not apply and the tax-exempt organization owns any of our shares. although we do not believe that any u.s. persons should be allocated such insurance income, we cannot be certain that this will be the case. u.s. tax-exempt investors are advised to consult their own tax advisors. changes in u.s. federal income tax law or the manner in which it is interpreted could materially adversely affect us. legislation has been introduced in the u.s. congress intended to eliminate some perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the united states, but have certain u.s. connections. it is possible that legislation could be introduced in and enacted by the current congress or future congresses that could have an adverse impact on us. in addition, existing interpretations of u.s. federal income tax laws could change, also resulting in an adverse impact on us. scope of application of recently enacted legislation is uncertain. congress enacted legislation in 2010 known as the foreign account tax compliance act (“fatca”) provisions. these provisions require withholding agents to withhold 30% of a u.s. source payment made to a foreign financial institution (“ffi”) unless the ffi has entered into an agreement with the irs to report account information for any of the ffi’s u.s. accountholders. final regulations were issued by the u.s. treasury on january 17, 2013. the u.s. treasury has released models for intergovernmental fatca agreements (“igas”) with other jurisdictions that will allow ffis in those jurisdictions to report u.s. accountholder information only to local revenue authorities rather than the irs. the u.k. / u.s. iga was signed in september 2012. irs announcement 2012-42, released in october 2012 provided a number of updates to various fatca implementation deadlines. the principle commencement date is january 1, 2014. as a result, non-publicly traded securities holders may be required to provide any information that we determine necessary to avoid the imposition of such withholding tax in order to allow us to satisfy such obligations. in the event that this withholding tax is imposed, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. potential fbar reporting and reporting of “specified foreign financial assets.” u.s. persons holding our shares should consider their possible obligation to file an irs form td f 90-22.1 — foreign bank and financial accounts report — with respect to their shares. additionally, such u.s. and non-u.s. persons should consider their possible obligations to annually report certain information with respect to us with their u.s. federal income tax returns. shareholders should consult their tax advisors with respect to these or any other reporting requirement which may apply with respect to their ownership of our shares.   74 table of contents the impact of bermuda’s letter of commitment to the organization for economic cooperation and development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in bermuda. the organization for economic cooperation and development (“oecd”) has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. these measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. in the oecd’s progress report dated april 2, 2009, bermuda was designated as an oecd “white list” jurisdiction that has substantially implemented the internationally agreed tax standards. the standards for the oecd compliance are to have at least 12 signed tax information exchange agreements (“tieas”) with other oecd members or non-oecd members. as at december 31, 2012, bermuda had 38 signed tieas which exceeds the requisite amount and demonstrates bermuda’s commitment to preserve the standards. we are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. changes to bermuda tax policies may impact our financial position. the duration of the assurance granted to us under the exempted undertakings tax protection act, 1966 (as amended) is limited and expires on march 31, 2035. tax policy and legislation in bermuda could change in the future (as is the case in other jurisdictions) and as such no guarantee can be given as to whether the current tax treatment afforded to us will continue after march 31, 2035. additional information aspen’s website address is www.aspen.co. we make available on our website our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the sec.   item 1b. unresolved