item 1a. risk factors.   certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and you should carefully consider them. it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors.   risks related to our company   our revenues and profits may decline if we were unable to maintain relationships with significant clients, distributors and other parties important to the success of our business.   our relationships and contractual arrangements with significant clients, distributors, original equipment manufacturers and other parties with whom we do business are important to the success of our segments. many of these arrangements are exclusive. for example, in assurant solutions, we have exclusive relationships with retailers and financial and other institutions through which we distribute our products, including an exclusive distribution relationship with sci relating to the distribution of our preneed insurance policies. in assurant specialty property, we have exclusive relationships with mortgage lenders and manufactured housing lenders, manufacturers and property managers. in assurant health, we have exclusive distribution relationships for our individual health insurance products with a major mutual insurance company as well as a relationship with a well-known association through which we provide many of our individual health insurance products. we also maintain contractual relationships with several separate networks of health and dental care providers, each referred to as a ppo, through which we obtain discounts. typically, these relationships and contractual arrangements have terms ranging from one to five years.   although we believe we have generally been successful in maintaining our clients, distribution and associated relationships, if these parties decline to renew or seek to terminate these arrangements or seek to renew these contracts on terms less favorable to us, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. for example, a loss of one or more of the discount arrangements with ppos could lead to higher medical or dental costs and/or a loss of members to other medical or dental plans. in addition, we are subject to the risk that these parties may face financial difficulties, reputational issues or problems with respect to their own products and services, which may lead to decreased sales of our products and services. moreover, if one or more of our clients or distributors consolidate or align themselves with other companies, we may lose business or suffer decreased revenues.   sales of our products and services may be reduced if we are unable to attract and retain sales representatives or to develop and maintain distribution sources.   we distribute our insurance products and services through a variety of distribution channels, including independent employee benefits specialists, brokers, managing general agents, life agents, financial institutions, mortgage lenders and servicers, retailers, funeral homes, association groups and other third-party marketing organizations.   our relationships with these distributors are significant both for our revenues and profits. we do not distribute our insurance products and services through captive or affiliated agents. in assurant health, we depend in large part on the services of independent agents and brokers and on associations in the marketing of our products. in assurant employee benefits, independent agents and brokers who act as advisors to our customers market and distribute our products. strong competition exists among insurers to form relationships with agents and brokers of demonstrated ability. we compete with other insurers for relationships with agents, brokers, and other intermediaries primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services, product features, and more generally through our ability to meet the needs of their clients, our customers. independent agents and brokers are typically not exclusively dedicated to us, but instead usually also market the products of our competitors and therefore we face continued competition from our competitors’ products. moreover, our ability to market our products and services depends on our ability to tailor our channels of distribution to comply with changes in the regulatory environment in which we and such agents and brokers operate.   16 table of contents the minimum loss ratios imposed by the affordable care act have compelled health insurers to decrease broker commission levels. similarly, the company recently decreased its commission levels for distribution channels that market assurant health’s individual medical and small employer group medical products. although the company believes that its revised commission schedule is competitive with those of other health insurers adapting to the new reform environment, this reduction could pressure our relationship with the distribution channels that we rely on to market our assurant health products and/or our ability to attract new brokers and agents, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, many of the agents and brokers who distribute assurant employee benefits products make a large part of their living from sales of health insurance. to the extent that some of them decide to pursue other occupations, the resulting loss of distribution could have a material adverse impact on the sales of assurant employee benefits’ products.   we have our own sales representatives whose distribution process varies by segment. we depend in large part on our sales representatives to develop and maintain client relationships. our inability to attract and retain effective sales representatives could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   general economic, financial market and political conditions may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions. particularly, difficult conditions in financial markets and the global economy may negatively affect the results of all of our business segments.   general economic, financial market and political conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. limited availability of credit, deteriorations of the global mortgage and real estate markets, declines in consumer confidence and consumer spending, increases in prices or in the rate of inflation, continuing high unemployment, or disruptive geopolitical events could contribute to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets, including the market for our stock. these conditions could also affect all of our business segments. specifically, during periods of economic downturn:     •   individuals and businesses may (i) choose not to purchase our insurance products, warranties and other related products and services, (ii) terminate existing policies or contracts or permit them to lapse, (iii) choose to reduce the amount of coverage they purchase, and (iv) in the case of business customers of assurant health or assurant employee benefits, have fewer employees requiring insurance coverage due to reductions in their staffing levels;     •   clients are more likely to experience financial distress or declare bankruptcy or liquidation which could have an adverse impact on the remittance of premiums from such clients as well as the collection of receivables from such clients for items such as unearned premiums;     •   disability insurance claims and claims on other specialized insurance products tend to rise;     •   there is a higher loss ratio on credit card and installment loan insurance due to rising unemployment and disability levels;     •   there is an increased risk of fraudulent insurance claims;     •   insureds tend to increase their utilization of health and dental benefits if they anticipate becoming unemployed or losing benefits; and     •   substantial decreases in loan availability and origination could reduce the demand for credit insurance that we write or debt cancellation or debt deferment products that we administer, and on the placement of hazard insurance under our lender-placed insurance programs.   in addition, general inflationary pressures may affect the costs of medical and dental care, as well as repair and replacement costs on our real and personal property lines, increasing the costs of paying claims. inflationary pressures may also affect the costs associated with our preneed insurance policies, particularly those that are guaranteed to grow with the consumer price index (or “cpi”). conversely, deflationary pressures may affect the pricing of our products.   17 table of contents our earnings could be materially affected by an impairment of goodwill.   goodwill represented $619,779 of our $26,397,018 in total assets as of december 31, 2010. we review our goodwill annually in the fourth quarter for impairment or more frequently if circumstances indicating that the asset may be impaired exist. such circumstances could include a sustained significant decline in our share price, a decline in our actual or expected future cash flows or income, a significant adverse change in the business climate, or slower growth rates, among others. based on our 2010 annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that our assurant health and assurant employee benefits reporting units experienced an impairment of $306,381. based on the same test, it was determined that the goodwill assigned to our other two reporting units were not impaired. circumstances such as those mentioned above could trigger an impairment of some or all of the remaining goodwill on our balance sheet, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. for more information on our annual goodwill impairment testing and the goodwill of our segments, please see “item 7—md&a—critical factors affecting results—value and recoverability of goodwill.”   competitive pressures or regulators could force us to reduce our rates.   the premiums we charge are subject to review by regulators. if they consider our loss ratios to be too low, they could require us to reduce our rates. in addition, competitive conditions may put pressure on our rates. in either case, significant rate reductions could materially reduce our profitability.   catastrophe losses, including man-made catastrophe losses, could materially reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   our insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes, particularly in our homeowners, life and other personal lines of business. we have experienced, and expect to experience, catastrophe losses that materially reduce our profitability or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, fires, epidemics and the long-term effects of climate change, or can be man-made catastrophes, including terrorist attacks or accidents such as airplane crashes. while the frequency and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property, the geographic concentration of insured lives, and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from future catastrophes.   catastrophe losses can vary widely and could significantly exceed our expectations. they may cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or materially adversely affect our financial condition. our ability to write new business also could be affected.   because assurant specialty property’s lender-placed homeowners and lender-placed manufactured housing insurance products are designed to automatically provide property coverage for client portfolios, our concentration in certain catastrophe-prone states like florida, california and texas may increase in the future. furthermore, the withdrawal of other insurers from these or other states may lead to adverse selection and increased use of our products in these areas and may negatively affect our loss experience.   the exact impact of the physical effects of climate change is uncertain. it is possible that changes in the global climate may cause long-term increases in the frequency and severity of storms, resulting in higher catastrophe losses, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition.   our group life and health insurance operations could be materially impacted by catastrophes such as a terrorist attack, a natural disaster, a pandemic or an epidemic that causes a widespread increase in mortality or disability rates or that causes an increase in the need for medical care. if the severity of such an event were sufficiently high, it could exceed our reinsurance coverage limits and could have a material adverse effect on our   18 table of contents results of operations and financial condition. in addition, with respect to our preneed insurance policies, the average age of policyholders is approximately 73 years. this group is more susceptible to certain epidemics than the overall population, and an epidemic resulting in a higher incidence of mortality could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   we may also lose premium income due to a large-scale business interruption caused by a catastrophe combined with legislative or regulatory reactions to the event.   a.m. best, moody’s, and s&p rate the financial strength of our insurance company subsidiaries, and a decline in these ratings could affect our standing in the insurance industry and cause our sales and earnings to decrease.   ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. a.m. best rates most of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries. moody’s rates six of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries and s&p rates seven of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries. these ratings are subject to periodic review by a.m. best, moody’s, and s&p, and we cannot assure that we will be able to retain them. in 2010 for example, moody’s lowered the financial strength rating of our rated life and health insurance subsidiaries from a2 to a3 and lowered the senior debt rating of assurant, inc. from baa1 to baa2, citing uncertainty surrounding the viability of several of the company’s core insurance products as a result of changes in the health insurance marketplace due to the affordable care act. s&p currently has a negative outlook on our two principal health insurance subsidiaries, citing uncertainty of operating performance under the affordable care act.   rating agencies may change their methodology or requirements for determining ratings, or they may become more conservative in assigning ratings. rating agencies or regulators could also increase capital requirements for the company or its subsidiaries. any reduction in our ratings could materially adversely affect the demand for our products from intermediaries and consumers, and materially adversely affect our results. in addition, any reduction in our financial strength ratings could materially adversely affect our cost of borrowing.   as of december 31, 2010, contracts representing approximately 17% of assurant solutions’ and 24% of assurant specialty property’s net earned premiums and fee income contain provisions requiring the applicable subsidiaries to maintain minimum a.m. best financial strength ratings ranging from “a” or better to “b” or better, depending on the contract. our clients may terminate these contracts or fail to renew them if the subsidiaries’ ratings fall below these minimums. under our marketing agreement with sci, american memorial life insurance company (“amlic”), one of our subsidiaries, is required to maintain an a.m. best financial strength rating of “b” or better throughout the term of the agreement. if amlic fails to maintain this rating for a period of 180 days, sci may terminate the agreement.   additionally, certain contracts in the drms business, representing approximately 7% of assurant employee benefits’ net earned premiums for the year ended december 31, 2010 contain provisions requiring the applicable subsidiaries to maintain minimum a.m. best financial strength ratings of “a-” or better. drms clients may terminate the agreements and, in some instances, recapture in-force business if the ratings of applicable subsidiaries fall below “a-”. similarly, distribution and service agreements representing approximately 17% of assurant health’s net earned premiums for the year ended december 31, 2010 contain provisions requiring the applicable subsidiaries to maintain minimum a.m. best financial strength ratings of “a-” or better, for the distribution agreements, or “b+” or better, for the service agreement. if the ratings of applicable assurant health subsidiaries fall below these threshold ratings levels, distribution and service partners could terminate their agreements. termination or failure to renew these agreements could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   unfavorable conditions in the capital and credit markets may significantly and adversely affect our access to capital and our ability to pay our debts or expenses.   the global capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption during 2008 and through early 2009. in many cases, companies’ ability to raise money was severely restricted. although conditions in the   19 table of contents capital and credit markets have improved significantly, they could again deteriorate. our ability to borrow or raise money is important if our operating cash flow is insufficient to pay our expenses, meet capital requirements, repay debt, pay dividends on our common stock or make investments. the principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, fee income, cash flow from our investment portfolio and liquid assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments.   if our access to capital markets is restricted, our cost of capital could go up, thus decreasing our profitability and reducing our financial flexibility. our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially and adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets.   the value of our investments could decline, affecting our profitability and financial strength.   investment returns are an important part of our profitability. significant fluctuations in the fixed maturity market could impair our profitability, financial condition and/or cash flows. our investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. in addition, certain factors affecting our business, such as volatility of claims experience, could force us to liquidate securities prior to maturity, causing us to incur capital losses. see “item 7a—quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk—interest rate risk.”   the performance of our investment portfolio is subject to continuing fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions.   changes in interest rates can materially adversely affect the performance of some of our investments. interest rate volatility can increase or reduce unrealized gains or unrealized losses in our portfolios. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. fixed maturity and short-term investments represented 81% of the fair value of our total investments as of december 31, 2010.   the fair market value of the fixed maturity securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. because all of our fixed maturity securities are classified as available for sale, changes in the market value of these securities are reflected in our balance sheet. their fair market value generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income from fixed-maturity investments increases or decreases directly with interest rates. in addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. an increase in interest rates will also increase the net unrealized losses in our current investment portfolio.   we employ asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate volatility and to increase the likelihood that cash flows are available to pay claims as they become due. our asset/liability management strategies may fail to eliminate or reduce the adverse effects of interest rate volatility, and significant fluctuations in the level of interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. if our investment portfolio is not appropriately matched with our insurance liabilities, we could also be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to pay claims and policyholder benefits.   our preneed insurance policies are generally whole life insurance policies with increasing death benefits. in extended periods of declining interest rates or rising inflation, there may be compression in the spread between the death benefit growth rates on these policies and the investment income that we can earn, resulting in a negative spread. as a result, declining interest rates or high inflation rates may have a material adverse effect on   20 table of contents our results of operations and our overall financial condition. see “item 7a—quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk—inflation risk” for additional information.   assurant employee benefits calculates reserves for long-term disability and life waiver of premium claims using net present value calculations based on interest rates at the time reserves are established and expectations regarding future interest rates. waiver of premium refers to a provision in a life insurance policy pursuant to which an insured with a disability that lasts for a specified period no longer has to pay premiums for the duration of the disability or for a stated period, during which time the life insurance coverage continues. if interest rates decline, reserves for open and/or new claims in assurant employee benefits would need to be calculated using lower discount rates, thereby increasing the net present value of those claims and the required reserves. we expect this to happen in the first quarter of 2011. depending on the magnitude of the decline, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, investment income may be lower than that assumed in setting premium rates.   our investment portfolio is subject to various risks that may result in realized investment losses.   we are subject to credit risk in our investment portfolio, primarily from our investments in corporate bonds, preferred stocks, leveraged loans, municipal bonds, and commercial mortgages. defaults by third parties in the payment or performance of their obligations could reduce our investment income and realized investment gains or result in the continued recognition of investment losses. the value of our investments may be materially adversely affected by increases in interest rates, downgrades in the corporate bonds included in the portfolio and by other factors that may result in the continued recognition of other-than-temporary impairments. each of these events may cause us to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio.   further, the value of any particular fixed maturity security is subject to impairment based on the creditworthiness of a given issuer. as of december 31, 2010, fixed maturity securities represented 79% of the fair value of our total invested assets. our fixed maturity portfolio also includes below investment grade securities (rated “bb” or lower by nationally recognized securities rating organizations). these investments comprise approximately 7% of the fair value of our total investments as of december 31, 2010 and generally provide higher expected returns, but present greater risk and can be less liquid than investment grade securities. a significant increase in defaults and impairments on our fixed maturity investment portfolio could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see “item 7a—quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk—credit risk” for additional information on the composition of our fixed maturity investment portfolio.   we currently invest in a small amount of equity securities (approximately 3% of the fair value of our total investments as of december 31, 2010). however, we have had higher percentages in the past and may make more such investments in the future. investments in equity securities generally provide higher expected total returns, but present greater risk to preservation of capital than our fixed maturity investments. recent volatility in the equity markets has led, and may continue to lead, to a decline in the market value of our investments in equity securities.   if treasury rates or credit spreads were to increase, the company may have additional realized and unrealized investment losses and increases in other-than-temporary impairments. the determination that a security has incurred an other-than-temporary decline in value requires the judgment of management. inherently, there are risks and uncertainties involved in making these judgments. changes in facts, circumstances, or critical assumptions could cause management to conclude that further impairments have occurred. this could lead to additional losses on investments. for further details on net investment losses and other-than-temporary-impairments, please see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.   derivative instruments generally present greater risk than fixed maturity investments or equity investments because of their greater sensitivity to market fluctuations. since august 1, 2003, we have been using derivative   21 table of contents instruments to manage the exposure to inflation risk created by our preneed insurance policies that are tied to the cpi. however, the protection provided by these derivative instruments would be limited if there were a sharp increase in inflation on a sustained long-term basis which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   our commercial mortgage loans and real estate investments subject us to liquidity risk.   our commercial mortgage loans on real estate investments (which represented approximately 10% of the fair value of our total investments as of december 31, 2010) are relatively illiquid. if we require extremely large amounts of cash on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments at attractive prices and/or in a timely manner.   the risk parameters of our investment portfolio may not assume an appropriate level of risk, thereby reducing our profitability and diminishing our ability to compete and grow.   in pricing our products and services, we incorporate assumptions regarding returns on our investments. accordingly, our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each of our operating segments. if we do not assume sufficient risk levels in our investment portfolio, the return on our investments may be insufficient to meet our pricing assumptions and profit targets over the long term. if, in response, we choose to increase our product prices, our ability to compete and grow may be diminished.   environmental liability exposure may result from our commercial mortgage loan portfolio and real estate investments.   liability under environmental protection laws resulting from our commercial mortgage loan portfolio and real estate investments may weaken our financial strength and reduce our profitability. for more information, please see item 1, “business—regulation—environmental regulation.”   our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, and this may require us to establish additional reserves that may materially reduce our earnings, profitability and capital.   we maintain reserves to cover our estimated ultimate exposure for claims and claim adjustment expenses with respect to reported claims and incurred but not reported claims (“ibnr”) as of the end of each accounting period. reserves, whether calculated under accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. (“gaap”), statutory accounting principles (“sap”) or accounting principles required in foreign jurisdictions, do not represent an exact calculation of exposure. reserving is inherently a matter of judgment; our ultimate liabilities could exceed reserves for a variety of reasons, including changes in macroeconomic factors (such as unemployment and interest rates), case development and other factors. we also adjust our reserves from time to time as these factors and our claims experience changes. reserve development and paid losses exceeding corresponding reserves could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.   we face risks associated with our international operations.   our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that we may not face in our domestic operations. for example, we may face the risk of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; political or economic instability in countries in which we conduct business, including possible terrorist acts; foreign exchange rate fluctuations; diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights; differences in cultural environments and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; exposure to local economic conditions and restrictions on the withdrawal of non-u.s. investment and earnings; and potentially substantial tax liabilities if we repatriate the cash generated by our international operations back to the u.s. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we   22 table of contents may lose all or most of our investment in that country. in addition, as we engage with international clients, we have made certain up-front commission payments, which we may not recover if the business does not materialize as we expect. as our international business grows, we rely increasingly on fronting carriers or intermediaries in other countries to maintain their licenses and product approvals, satisfy local regulatory requirements and continue in business.   for information on the significant international regulations that apply to our company, please see item 1, “business—regulation—international regulation.”   fluctuations in the exchange rate of the u.s. dollar and other foreign currencies may materially and adversely affect our results of operations.   while most of our costs and revenues are in u.s. dollars, some are in other currencies. because our financial results in certain countries are translated from local currency into u.s. dollars upon consolidation, the results of our operations may be affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations. we do not currently hedge foreign currency risk. if the u.s. dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, net revenue, operating expenses, and net income or loss. similarly, our net assets, net revenue, operating expenses, and net income or loss will decrease if the u.s. dollar strengthens against local currency. these fluctuations in currency exchange rates may result in gains or losses that materially and adversely affect our results of operations.   unanticipated changes in tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could materially and adversely affect our results.   during 2010, the company had deferred tax assets related to realized and unrealized capital losses that were generated during 2009 and 2008. in accordance with applicable income tax guidance, the company must determine whether its ability to realize the value of its deferred tax asset in the future is “more likely than not.” under the income tax guidance, a deferred tax asset should be reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. the company increased its valuation allowance by $9,050 during 2010, resulting in a balance of $90,738. the realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income of the same character during the carryback or carryforward periods.   in determining the appropriate valuation allowance, management made certain judgments relating to recoverability of deferred tax assets, use of tax loss and tax credit carryforwards, levels of expected future taxable income and available tax planning strategies. the assumptions in making these judgments are updated periodically on the basis of current business conditions affecting the company and overall economic conditions. these management judgments are therefore subject to change due to factors that include, but are not limited to, changes in our ability to realize expected capital gains in the foreseeable future or in our ability to execute other tax planning strategies. management will continue to assess and determine the need for, and the amount of, the valuation allowance in subsequent periods. any change in the valuation allowance could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition.   additionally, certain limitations on the deductibility of employee compensation due to the affordable care act may affect the deductibility of certain payments made to employees and service providers by various assurant entities in amounts that have not been determined.   the failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems could adversely affect our business.   our business is dependent upon the ability to keep current with technological advances. our ability to keep our systems integrated with those of our clients is critical to the success of our business. if we do not effectively maintain our systems and update them to address technological advancements, our relationships and ability to do   23 table of contents business with our clients may be adversely affected. we could also experience other adverse consequences, including unfavorable underwriting and reserving decisions, internal control problems and security breaches resulting in loss of data.   we may be unable to accurately price for benefits, claims and other costs, which could reduce our profitability.   our profitability could vary depending on our ability to predict and price for benefits, claims and other costs including, but not limited to, medical and dental costs and the frequency and severity of property claims. this ability could be affected by factors such as inflation, changes in the regulatory environment, changes in industry practices, changes in legal, social or environmental conditions, or new technologies. the inability to accurately price for benefits, claims and other costs could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   reinsurance may not be available or adequate to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers.   as part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various operating segments. although the reinsurer is liable to us for claims properly ceded under the reinsurance arrangements, we remain liable to the insured as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. ceded reinsurance arrangements therefore do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. the inability to collect amounts due from reinsurers could materially adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition.   reinsurance for certain types of catastrophes could become unavailable or prohibitively expensive for some of our businesses. in such a situation, we might also be adversely affected by state regulations that prohibit us from excluding catastrophe exposures or from withdrawing from or increasing premium rates in catastrophe-prone areas.   our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. we may not be able to maintain our current reinsurance facilities and, even where highly desirable or necessary, we may not be able to obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. inability to obtain reinsurance at favorable rates or at all could cause us to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, to take more risk, or to incur higher costs. these developments could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   we have sold businesses through reinsurance that could again become our direct financial and administrative responsibility if the purchasing companies were to become insolvent.   in the past, we have sold, and in the future we may sell, businesses through reinsurance ceded to third parties. for example, in 2001 we sold the insurance operations of our fortis financial group (“ffg”) division to the hartford financial services group, inc. (“the hartford”) and in 2000 we sold our long term care (“ltc”) division to john hancock life insurance company (“john hancock”), now a subsidiary of manulife financial corporation. most of the assets backing reserves coinsured under these sales are held in trusts or separate accounts. however, if the reinsurers became insolvent, we would be exposed to the risk that the assets in the trusts and/or the separate accounts would be insufficient to support the liabilities that would revert to us.   the a.m. best ratings of the hartford and john hancock are currently a and a+, respectively. a.m. best downgraded the issuer credit and financial strength ratings of the hartford from a+ to a in february 2009. currently, a.m. best maintains a stable outlook on the hartford’s financial strength ratings and a negative outlook on john hancock’s financial strength ratings.   we also face the risk of again becoming responsible for administering these businesses in the event of reinsurer insolvency. we do not currently have the administrative systems and capabilities to process these   24 table of contents businesses. accordingly, we would need to obtain those capabilities in the event of an insolvency of one or more of the reinsurers. we might be forced to obtain such capabilities on unfavorable terms with a resulting material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   due to the structure of our commission program, we are exposed to risks related to the creditworthiness and reporting systems of some of our agents, third party administrators and clients in assurant solutions and assurant specialty property.   we are subject to the credit risk of some of the clients and/or agents with which we contract in assurant solutions and assurant specialty property. we advance agents’ commissions as part of our preneed insurance product offerings. these advances are a percentage of the total face amount of coverage. there is a one-year payback provision against the agency if death or lapse occurs within the first policy year. if sci, which receives the largest shares of such agent commissions, were unable to fulfill its payback obligations, this could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.   in addition, some of our clients, third party administrators and agents collect and report premiums or pay claims on our behalf. these parties’ failure to remit all premiums collected or to pay claims on our behalf on a timely and accurate basis could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.   we face significant competitive pressures in our businesses, which could reduce our profitability.   we compete for customers and distributors with many insurance companies and other financial services companies for business and individual customers, employer and other group customers, agents, brokers and other distribution relationships. some of our competitors may offer a broader array of products than our subsidiaries or have a greater diversity of distribution resources, better brand recognition, more competitive pricing, lower costs, greater financial strength, more resources, or higher ratings.   many of our insurance products, particularly our group benefits and group health insurance policies, are underwritten annually. there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors, rather than renewing coverage with us. competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of our policies, as well as our ability to sell products.   some of our competitors may have a lower target for returns on capital allocated to their business than we do, which may enable them to undercut our prices. in addition, in certain markets, we compete with organizations that have a substantial market share. in particular, certain large competitors of assurant health may be able to obtain favorable financial arrangements from health care providers that are unavailable to us, putting us at a competitive disadvantage and potentially adversely affecting our revenues and profits.   in addition, as financial institutions gain experience with debt protection administration, their reliance on third party administrators, such as assurant solutions may diminish, thereby reducing our revenues and profits.   new competition could also cause the supply of insurance to change, which could affect our ability to price our products at attractive rates and thereby adversely affect our underwriting results. although there are some impediments facing potential competitors who wish to enter the markets we serve, the entry of new competitors into our markets can occur, affording our customers significant flexibility in moving to other insurance providers.   failure to protect our clients’ confidential information and privacy could result in the loss of reputation and customers, reduce our profitability and/or subject us to fines, litigation and penalties, and the costs of compliance with privacy and security laws could adversely affect our business.   our businesses are subject to a variety of privacy regulations and confidentiality obligations. if we do not properly comply with privacy and security laws and regulations that require us to protect confidential   25 table of contents information, we could experience adverse consequences, including loss of customers and related revenue, regulatory problems (including fines and penalties), loss of reputation and civil litigation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. as have other entities in the health care industry, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial costs in complying with the requirements of applicable privacy and security laws. for more information on the privacy and security laws that apply to us, please see item 1, “business—regulation.”   we may be unable to grow our business as we would like if we cannot find suitable acquisition candidates at attractive prices or integrate them effectively.   historically, acquisitions and new ventures have played a significant role in the growth of some of our businesses. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or new venture opportunities, to finance or complete such transactions on acceptable terms, or to integrate acquired businesses successfully.   acquisitions entail a number of risks including, among other things, inaccurate assessment of liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; difficulties in integrating systems and personnel; failure to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow; an increase in our indebtedness; and a limitation in our ability to access additional capital when needed. our failure to adequately address these acquisition risks could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   the inability of our subsidiaries to pay sufficient dividends to us could prevent us from meeting our obligations and paying future stockholder dividends.   as a holding company whose principal assets are the capital stock of our subsidiaries, we rely primarily on dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to stockholders and corporate expenses. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and to make such other payments in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, future statutory earnings and regulatory restrictions. except to the extent that we are a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, claims of the subsidiaries’ creditors, including policyholders, have priority over creditors’ claims with respect to the assets and earnings of the subsidiaries. if any of our subsidiaries should become insolvent, liquidate or otherwise reorganize, our creditors and stockholders will have no right to proceed against their assets or to cause the liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up of the subsidiary under applicable liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up laws. the applicable insurance laws of the jurisdiction where each of our insurance subsidiaries is domiciled would govern any proceedings relating to that subsidiary, and the insurance authority of that jurisdiction would act as a liquidator or rehabilitator for the subsidiary. both creditors and policyholders of the subsidiary would be entitled to payment in full from the subsidiary’s assets before we, as a stockholder, would be entitled to receive any distribution from the subsidiary.   the payment of dividends by any of our regulated insurance company subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts (i.e., extraordinary dividends) must be approved by the subsidiary’s domiciliary state department of insurance. ordinary dividends, for which no regulatory approval is generally required, are limited to amounts determined by a formula, which varies by state. the formula for the majority of the states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled is based on the prior year’s statutory net income or 10% of the statutory surplus as of the end of the prior year. some states limit ordinary dividends to the greater of these two amounts, others limit them to the lesser of these two amounts and some states exclude prior year realized capital gains from prior year net income in determining ordinary dividend capacity. some states have an additional stipulation that dividends may only be paid out of earned surplus. if insurance regulators determine that payment of an ordinary dividend or any other payments by our insurance subsidiaries to us (such as payments under a tax sharing agreement or payments for employee or other services) would be adverse to policyholders or creditors, the regulators may block such payments that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval. future regulatory actions could further restrict the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends. for more information on the maximum   26 table of contents amount our subsidiaries could pay us in 2011 without regulatory approval, see “item 5—market for registrant’s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities—dividend policy.”   our credit facilities also contain limitations on our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders if we are in default or such dividend payments would cause us to be in default of our obligations under the credit facilities.   any additional material restrictions on the ability of insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect our ability to pay any dividends on our common stock and/or service our debt and pay our other corporate expenses.   the success of our business strategy depends on the continuing service of key executives and the members of our senior management team, and any failure to adequately provide for the succession of senior management and other key executives could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.   our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of our senior management and other key executives. although we have succession plans for key executives, this does not guarantee that they will stay with us.   risks related to our industry   reform of the health insurance industry could make our health insurance business unprofitable.   in march 2010, president obama signed the affordable care act into law. provisions of the affordable care act and related reforms have and will become effective at various dates over the next several years and will make sweeping and fundamental changes to the u.s. health care system that are expected to significantly affect the health insurance industry. for more information on the affordable care act, please see item 1, “business—regulation—federal regulation—patient protection and affordable care act.”   the affordable care act requires assurant health, for some products, to increase benefits, to limit rescission to cases of intentional fraud and, eventually, to insure pre-existing conditions in all lines of insurance, among other things. if, for those products, assurant health’s actual loss ratios fall short of required minimum loss ratios (by state and legal entity), we are required to rebate the difference to consumers. we have made, and are continuing to make, significant changes to the operations and products of assurant health to adapt to the new environment. in 2011, we expect the operations of assurant health to break even, but assurant health could lose money in 2011 and beyond if our plans for operating in the new environment are unsuccessful or if there is less demand than we expect for our products in the new environment.   our business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions.   from time to time, we may be subject to a variety of legal and regulatory actions relating to our current and past business operations, including, but not limited to:     •   disputes over coverage or claims adjudication including, but not limited to, pre-existing conditions in individual medical contracts and rescissions of policies;     •   disputes over our treatment of claims, where states or insured may allege that we failed to make required payments or to meet prescribed deadlines for adjudicating claims;     •   disputes regarding sales practices, disclosures, premium refunds, licensing, regulatory compliance, underwriting and compensation arrangements;     •   disputes with agents, brokers or network providers over compensation and termination of contracts and related claims;   27 table of contents   •   actions by state regulatory authorities that may challenge our ability to increase or maintain our premium rates and/or require us to reduce current premium rates;     •   disputes alleging packaging of credit insurance products with other products provided by financial institutions;     •   disputes with tax and insurance authorities regarding our tax liabilities;     •   disputes relating to customers’ claims that the customer was not aware of the full cost or existence of the insurance or limitations on insurance coverage; and     •   industry-wide investigations regarding business practices including, but not limited to, the use and the marketing of certain types of insurance policies or certificates of insurance.   unfavorable outcomes in litigation or regulatory proceedings, or significant problems in our relationships with regulators, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, our reputation, and our ability to continue to do business. they could also expose us to further investigations or litigations.   we are subject to extensive laws and regulations, which increase our costs and could restrict the conduct of our business.   our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they do business. such regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders. to that end, the laws of the various states and other jurisdictions establish insurance departments with broad powers over, among other things: licensing and authorizing the transaction of business; capital, surplus and dividends; underwriting limitations; companies’ ability to enter and exit markets; statutory accounting and other disclosure requirements; policy forms; coverage; companies’ ability to provide, terminate or cancel certain coverages; premium rates, including regulatory ability to disapprove or reduce the premium rates companies may charge; trade and claims practices; certain transactions between affiliates; content of disclosures to consumers; type, amount and valuation of investments; assessments or other surcharges for guaranty funds and companies’ ability to recover assessments through premium increases; and market conduct and sales practices.   for a discussion of various laws and regulations affecting our business, please see item 1, “business—regulation.”   if regulatory requirements impede our ability to conduct certain operations, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, we may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals and our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations, or the relevant regulators’ interpretation of these laws and regulations. in such events, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from operating, limit some or all of our activities, or fine us. these types of actions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth.   legislation or other regulatory reform that increases the regulatory requirements imposed on us or that changes the way we are able to do business may significantly harm our business or results of operations in the future. for example, some states have imposed new time limits for the payment of uncontested covered claims and require health care and dental service plans to pay interest on uncontested claims not paid promptly within the required time period. some states have also granted their insurance regulatory agencies additional authority to impose monetary penalties and other sanctions on health and dental plans engaging in certain unfair payment practices. if we were unable for any reason to comply with these requirements, it could result in substantial costs to us and may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   28 table of contents in addition, new interpretations of existing laws, or new judicial decisions affecting the insurance industry, could adversely affect our business.   legislative or regulatory changes that could significantly harm our subsidiaries and us include, but are not limited to:     •   imposed reductions on premium levels, limitations on the ability to raise premiums on existing policies, or new minimum loss ratios;     •   increases in minimum capital, reserves and other financial viability requirements;     •   enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future financial crises or to otherwise ensure the stability of institutions;     •   new licensing requirements;     •   restrictions on the ability to offer certain types of insurance products;     •   prohibitions or limitations on provider financial incentives and provider risk-sharing arrangements;     •   more stringent standards of review for claims denials or coverage determinations;     •   guaranteed-issue requirements restricting our ability to limit or deny coverage;     •   new benefit mandates;     •   increased regulation relating to lender-placed insurance;     •   limitations on our ability to build appropriate provider networks and, as a result, manage health care and utilization due to “any willing provider” legislation, which requires us to take any provider willing to accept our reimbursement;     •   limitations on the ability to manage health care and utilization due to direct access laws that allow insureds to seek services directly from specialty medical providers without referral by a primary care provider; and     •   restriction of solicitation of insurance consumers by funeral board laws for prefunded funeral insurance coverage.   there are currently several proposals to amend state insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of insurance holding company regulation. these include model laws proposed by the international association of insurance supervisors and the naic that provide for uniform standards of insurer corporate governance, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to risk-based capital ratios, and additional regulatory disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies. in addition, the naic has proposed a “solvency modernization initiative” that focuses on capital requirements, corporate governance and risk management, statutory accounting and financial reporting, and reinsurance. we cannot predict the effect of these initiatives on the company at this time.   the insurance and related businesses in which we operate may be subject to periodic negative publicity, which may negatively affect our financial results.   we communicate with and distribute our products and services ultimately to individual consumers. there may be a perception that some of these purchasers may be unsophisticated and in need of consumer protection. accordingly, from time to time, consumer advocacy groups or the media may focus attention on our products and services, thereby subjecting us to negative publicity.   we may also be negatively affected if another company in one of our industries or in a related industry engages in practices resulting in increased public attention to our businesses. negative publicity may also result   29 table of contents from judicial inquiries, unfavorable outcomes in lawsuits, or regulatory or governmental action with respect to our products, services and industry commercial practices. negative publicity may cause increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices as well as increased litigation or enforcement action by civil and criminal authorities. additionally, negative publicity may increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, constraining our ability to price our products appropriately for the risks we are assuming, requiring us to change the products and services we offer, or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate.   the insurance industry can be cyclical, which may affect our results.   certain lines of insurance that we write can be cyclical. although no two cycles are the same, insurance industry cycles have typically lasted for periods ranging from two to ten years. in addition, the upheaval in the global economy during 2008 and 2009 has been much more widespread and has affected all the businesses in which we operate. we expect to see continued cyclicality in some or all of our businesses in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   risks related to our common stock   given the recent economic climate, our stock may be subject to stock price and trading volume volatility. the price of our common stock could fluctuate or decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment.   in recent years, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility. company-specific issues and market developments generally in the insurance industry and in the regulatory environment may have caused this volatility. our stock price could materially fluctuate or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including but not limited to: quarterly variations in operating results; operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; changes in our financial strength ratings; limitations on premium levels or the ability to maintain or raise premiums on existing policies; regulatory developments and negative publicity relating to us or our competitors. in addition, broad market and industry fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.   applicable laws, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and contract provisions may discourage takeovers and business combinations that some stockholders might consider to be in their best interests.   state laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. for example, section 203 of the general corporation law of the state of delaware may limit the ability of an “interested stockholder” to engage in business combinations with us. an interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our directors, facilitating director enhancement that may delay, defer or prevent a change in control. such provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts.   our certificate of incorporation or by-laws also contain provisions that permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, prohibit stockholders from filling vacancies on our board of directors, prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders and from taking action by written consent, and impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholder meetings.   30 table of contents additionally, applicable state insurance laws may require prior approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer. state statutes generally provide that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist when any person directly or indirectly owns, controls, has voting power over, or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the domestic insurer’s voting securities. however, the state of florida, in which some of our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, sets this threshold at 5%. because a person acquiring 5% or more of our common stock would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of our florida subsidiaries, the insurance change of control laws of florida would apply to such transaction and at 10% the laws of many other states would likely apply to such a transaction. prior to granting such approval, a state insurance commissioner will typically consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the integrity of the applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the applicant’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control.   we may also, under some circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repay our outstanding indebtedness under our revolving credit facility and other agreements. we or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repay such indebtedness in those circumstances, which may constitute an event of default resulting in acceleration of indebtedness and potential cross-default under other agreements. the threat of this could have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions involving a change of control, including transactions in which our stockholders would receive a substantial premium for their shares over then-current market prices, or which they otherwise may deem to be in their best interests.   item 1b. unresolved