item 1a. risk factors.   the information in this annual report on form 10-k includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the “exchange act”). you can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words, such as “expects,” “projects,” “predicts,” “believes,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “may,” “will,” “possible,” “goal,” “target,” “should,” or “intends” or the negative of those words or similar words. forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties regarding events, conditions, and financial trends that may affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. for a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements, please see the discussion under “risk factors” contained in this prospectus supplement and the reports we file under the exchange act that are incorporated by reference in this prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about:   · speculative nature of oil and natural gas exploration, particularly in the bakken and three forks formations on which we are focused;   6     · substantial capital requirements and ability to access additional capital; · ability to meet the drilling schedule; · uncertainty of drilling results; · results of acquisitions; · relationships with partners and service providers; · ability to acquire additional leasehold interests or other oil and natural gas properties; · defects in title to our oil and natural gas properties; · inability to manage growth in our businesses; · ability to control properties that we do not operate; · lack of geographic diversification; · competition in the oil and natural gas industry; · global financing conditions; · oil and natural gas realized prices; · ability to market and distribute oil and natural gas produced; · seasonal weather conditions; · government regulation of the oil and natural gas industry, including potential regulations affecting hydraulic stimulation and environmental regulations such as climate change regulations; and · uninsured or underinsured risks.    these forward-looking statements are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the company’s control, incident to the exploration for and development, production, and sale of oil and gas. these risks include, but are not limited to, commodity price volatility, inflation, lack of availability of drilling and production equipment and services, environmental risks, drilling and other operating risks, regulatory changes, the uncertainty inherent in estimating proved oil and natural gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production, cash flow and access to capital, the timing of development expenditures, and the other risks described herein under “risk factors.”   reserve engineering is a process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact way. the accuracy of any reserve estimates depends on the quality of available data, the interpretation of such data, and price and cost assumptions made by reservoir engineers. in addition, the results of drilling, testing, and production activities may justify revisions of estimates that were made previously. if significant, such revisions would change the schedule of any further production and development drilling. accordingly, reserve estimates may differ significantly from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered.   there is no assurance that we will operate profitably or will generate positive cash flow in the future.   if we cannot generate positive cash flows in the future, or raise sufficient financing to continue our normal operations, then we may be forced to scale down or even close our operations. in particular, additional capital may be required in the event that drilling and completion costs for further wells increase beyond our expectations, or that we encounter greater costs associated with general and administrative expenses or offering costs. the occurrence of any of the aforementioned events could adversely affect our ability to meet our business plan.   we will depend heavily on outside capital to pay for the continued exploration and development of our properties. such outside capital may include the sale of additional stock and/or commercial borrowing. capital may not continue to be available if necessary to meet these continuing exploration and development costs or, if capital is available, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. the issuance of additional equity securities by us would result in a significant dilution in the equity interests of our current stockholders. obtaining commercial loans, assuming those loans would be available, will increase our liabilities and future cash commitments.   if we are unable to obtain financing in the amounts and on terms deemed acceptable to us, we may be unable to continue our business and as a result may be required to scale back or cease operations for our business, the result of which would be that our stockholders would lose some or all of their investment.   7     we may be unable to obtain additional capital required to implement our business plan, which could restrict our ability to grow.   future acquisitions and future exploration, development, production and marketing activities, as well as our administrative requirements (such as salaries, insurance expenses and general overhead expenses, as well as legal compliance costs and accounting expenses) will require a substantial amount of capital and cash flow.   subject to the terms and conditions of the credit agreement, we may pursue sources of additional capital through various financing transactions or arrangements, including joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. we may not be successful in identifying suitable financing transactions in the time period required or at all, and we may not obtain the capital we require by other means. if we do not succeed in raising additional capital, our resources may not be sufficient to fund our operations in the future.   any additional capital raised through the sale of equity will dilute the ownership percentage of our stockholders. raising any such capital could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities because our assets would be owned by a larger pool of outstanding equity. the terms of securities we issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable to our new investors, and may include preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of other securities. in addition, we have granted and will continue to grant equity incentive awards under our equity incentive plans, which may have a further dilutive effect.   our ability to obtain financing, if and when necessary, may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets (both generally and in the oil and natural gas industry in particular), the location of our oil and natural gas properties, and prices of oil and natural gas on the commodities markets (which will impact the amount of asset-based financing available to us) and the departure of key employees. further, if oil or natural gas prices decline, our revenues will likely decrease and such decreased revenues may increase our requirements for capital. if the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs (even to the extent that we reduce our operations), we may be required to cease our operations, divest our assets at unattractive prices, or obtain financing on unattractive terms.   we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses, and other costs. we may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, which may adversely impact our financial condition.   if we are not able to generate sufficient funds from our operations and other financing sources, we may not be able to finance our planned development activity, acquisitions, or service our debt.   we have been dependent on debt and equity financing to fund our cash needs that are not funded from operations or the sale of assets, and we will continue to incur additional indebtedness to fund our operations. low commodity prices, production problems, disappointing drilling results, and other factors beyond our control could reduce our funds from operations and may restrict our ability to obtain additional financing or to pay interest and principal on our debt obligations. furthermore, we have incurred losses in the past that may affect our ability to obtain financing. quantifying or predicting the likelihood of any or all of these occurring is difficult in the current domestic and world economy. for these reasons, financing may not be available to us in the future on acceptable terms or at all. in the event additional capital is required but not available on acceptable terms, we would curtail our acquisition, drilling, development, and other activities or could be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis.   restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance out operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions, and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests.   our credit facility (see page 27) contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict or limit our ability to:   • pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock; • make certain loans and investments; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates;   8     • create or assume certain liens on our assets; • merge or to enter into other business combination transactions; • enter into transactions that would result in a change of control of us; or • engage in certain other corporate activities.   also, our credit agreement requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios and financial condition tests. these financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. we may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under our credit agreement impose on us.   a breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under our credit agreement. a default, if not cured or waived, could result in all indebtedness outstanding under our credit agreement becoming immediately due and payable. if that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could accelerate the maturity of the debt or proceed against any collateral granted to them to secure such defaulted debt.   if we are not successful in continuing to grow our business, then we may have to scale back or even cease our ongoing business operations.   our success is significantly dependent on a successful acquisition, drilling, completion, and production program. we may be unable to locate recoverable reserves or operate on a profitable basis. if our business plan is not successful, and we are not able to operate profitably, our investors may lose some or all of their investment.   we may have difficulty integrating and managing the growth associated with our acquisitions.   our acquisitions may place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational and administrative resources. we may not be able to integrate the operations of the acquired assets without increases in costs, losses in revenues or other difficulties. in addition, we may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, synergies, costs savings or other benefits expected from such acquisitions. any unexpected costs or delays incurred in connection with such integration could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we may need to hire new employees to help manage our operations, and we may need to add resources as we scale up our business. however, we may experience difficulties in finding additional qualified personnel and we may need to supplement our staff with contract and consultant personnel until we are able to hire new employees. our ability to continue to grow after acquisitions will depend upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify and acquire new exploratory prospects and other acquisition targets, our ability to develop then existing prospects, our ability to successfully adopt an operated approach, our ability to continue to retain and attract skilled personnel, the results of our drilling program and acquisition efforts, hydrocarbon prices and access to capital. we may not be successful in achieving or managing growth, and any such failure could have a material adverse effect on us.   a portion of our properties are located in undeveloped areas. there can be no assurance that we will establish commercial discoveries on these properties.   exploration for economic reserves of oil and gas is subject to a number of risk factors. few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing oil and/or gas wells. a number of our properties are in the exploration stage only and are without proven reserves of oil and gas. we may not establish commercial discoveries on any of these properties that do not have any proved developed or undeveloped reserves. for information about our proved reserves, please see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, which is included in item 8 of this document (see page 58).   9     successful exploitation of the williston basis is subject to risks related to horizontal drilling and completion techniques.   operations in the williston basin involve utilizing the latest drilling and completion techniques, including horizontal drilling and completion techniques, to generate the highest possible cumulative recoveries and therefore generate the highest possible returns. risks that are encountered while drilling include, but are not limited to, landing the well bore in the desired drilling zone, staying in the zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, running casing the entire length of the well bore, and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal well bore. completion risks include, but are not limited to, being able to hydraulically stimulate the planned number of stages, being able to run tools the entire length of the well bore during completion operations, and successfully cleaning out the well bore after completion of the final hydraulic stimulation stage. ultimately, the success of these latest drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period.   our drilling and completion of a long lateral well in the bakken and three forks formations in our spyglass area generally costs us between $6.0 million and $6.5 million, which is significantly more expensive than a typical onshore conventional well. accordingly, unsuccessful exploration or development activity affecting even a small number of wells could have a significant impact on our results of operations.   the potential profitability of oil and gas ventures depends upon factors beyond our control.   the potential profitability of oil and gas properties is dependent upon many factors beyond our control. for instance, world prices and markets for oil and gas are unpredictable, highly volatile, potentially subject to governmental fixing, pegging, controls, or any combination of these and other factors, and respond to changes in domestic, international, political, social, and economic environments. additionally, due to worldwide economic uncertainty, the availability and cost of funds for production and other expenses have become increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to project. these changes and events will likely materially affect our financial performance.   adverse weather conditions can also hinder drilling and completion operations. a productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered that impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. in addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is impregnated with water or other deleterious substances. the marketability of oil and gas that may be acquired or discovered will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. these factors include the proximity and capacity of oil and gas pipelines and processing equipment, market fluctuations of prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, allowable production, and environmental protection. these factors cannot be accurately predicted and the combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital.   prices and markets for oil and natural gas are unpredictable and tend to fluctuate significantly, which could reduce profitability, growth, and the value of our business.   oil and natural gas are commodities, the prices of which are determined based on world demand, supply, and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. these factors include:   • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the current level of prices and expectations about future prices of oil and natural gas; • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing, and, delivering oil and natural gas; • the price of foreign oil and natural gas imports; • political and economic conditions in oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, south america, and russia;   10     • the ability of members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • speculative trading in oil and natural gas derivative contracts; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions and other natural disasters; • risks associated with operating drilling rigs; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action, including u.s. military operations in the middle east; • the proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; and • overall domestic and global economic conditions.   world prices for oil and natural gas have fluctuated widely in recent years, and we expect that prices will fluctuate in the future. price fluctuations will have a significant impact upon our revenue, the return from our reserves, and on our financial condition generally. price fluctuations for oil and natural gas commodities may also impact the investment market for companies engaged in the oil and natural gas industry. prices may not remain at current levels. decreases in the prices of oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, the future results of our operations, and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. a significant decrease in oil and natural gas prices could also adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital to pursue future drilling activities.   our hedging activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our net income or increase our net loss, which may adversely affect our business.   in order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas production, we may enter into oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of expected production that we fund. such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. in addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which:   • production is less than expected; • there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; or • the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts.   lower oil and natural gas prices, decreases in value of undeveloped acreage, lease expirations, and material changes to our plans of development may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs.   we use the full cost method of accounting to account for our oil and natural gas operations. accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for, and develop oil and natural gas properties. under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a “full cost ceiling,” which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of hedges in place, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. if, at the end of any fiscal period, we determine that the net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties exceed the full cost ceiling, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings in the period then ended. this is called a “ceiling test write-down.” this charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce our net income and stockholders’ equity. we recognized a ceiling test write-down for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 of approximately $1.7 million and $10.6 million, respectively, and we may recognize write-downs in the future if commodity prices decline or if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves.   11     estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates will materially affect the quantities and the value of our reserves.   certain of our reports that we file with the sec pursuant to the exchange act contain estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. the estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the sec relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes, and availability of funds. the process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. this process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data for each reservoir. therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from those estimated. any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and the value of our reserves. our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. in addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.   at december 31, 2013 on an actual basis, approximately 65% of our estimated reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. the reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. although we have prepared estimates of these oil and natural gas reserves and the costs associated with development of these reserves in accordance with sec regulations, actual capital expenditures will likely vary from estimated capital expenditures, development may not occur as scheduled, and actual results may not be as estimated.   competition in the oil and gas industry is highly competitive and there is no assurance that we will be successful in acquiring the leases.   the oil and gas industry is intensely competitive. we compete with numerous individuals and companies, including many major oil and gas companies that have substantially greater technical, financial, and operational resources and staffs. accordingly, there is a high degree of competition for desirable oil and gas leases, suitable properties for drilling operations, and necessary drilling and completion equipment and services, as well as for access to funds. we cannot predict if the necessary funds can be raised or that any projected work will be completed. our budget anticipates our acquisition of additional acreage. this acreage may not become available or if it is available for leasing, we may not be successful in acquiring the leases. there are other competitors that have operations in areas of potential interest to us and the presence of these competitors could adversely affect our ability to acquire additional leases.   shortages of equipment, services, and qualified personnel could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect results of operations.   the demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers, and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices and activity levels in new regions, causing periodic shortages. these problems can be particularly severe in certain regions such as the williston basin. during periods of high oil and natural gas prices, the demand for drilling rigs and equipment has increased along with increased activity levels, which may result in shortages of equipment. in addition, there has been a shortage of hydraulic stimulation capacity in many of the areas in which we operate. this shortage in hydraulic stimulation capacity could occur in the future. higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, oilfield equipment and services, and personnel. these types of shortages and subsequent price increases could affect our profit margin, cash flow, and operating results and/or restrict or delay our ability to drill those wells and conduct those operations that we currently have planned and budgeted, causing us to miss our forecasts and projections.   12     all of our producing properties and operations are located in the williston basin region, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area.   as of december 31, 2013, approximately 99.5% of our proved reserves and approximately 98% of our production were located in the williston basin in northeastern montana and northwestern north dakota. as a result, we may be exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, availability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services, significant governmental regulation, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, or interruption of transportation of oil or natural gas produced from the wells in this area. due to the geographically concentrated nature of our portfolio of properties, a number of our properties could experience many of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more geographically diversified portfolio of properties. such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   the marketability of natural resources will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control, which may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital to be profitable or viable.   the marketability of natural resources that may be acquired or discovered by us will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. these factors include market fluctuations in oil and gas pricing and demand, the proximity and capacity of natural resource markets and processing equipment, land tenure, land use and governmental regulations including regulations concerning the importing and exporting of oil and gas, and environmental protection regulations. the exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital to be profitable or viable.   our business depends on oil and natural gas gathering and transportation facilities, most of which are owned by third parties.   the marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity, and capacity of gathering and pipeline systems owned by third parties. the unavailability of, or lack of, available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay, or discontinuance of, development plans for properties. insufficient transportation in the williston basin could cause significant fluctuations in our realized oil and natural gas prices.” we generally do not purchase firm transportation on third party pipeline facilities, and, therefore, the transportation of our production can be interrupted by other customers that have firm arrangements.   the disruption of third-party facilities due to maintenance, weather, or other interruptions of service could also negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. we have no control over when or if such facilities are restored. a total shut-in of our production could materially affect us due to a resulting lack of cash flow, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flow.   insufficient transportation in the williston basin could cause significant fluctuations in our realized oil and natural gas prices.   the williston basin crude oil business environment has historically been characterized by periods when oil production has surpassed local transportation, resulting in substantial discounts in the price received for crude oil versus prices quoted for west texas intermediate (the “wti”) crude oil. although additional williston basin transportation takeaway capacity was added in the last few years, production also increased due to the elevated drilling activity. the increased production coupled with delays in rail car arrivals and commissioning of rail loading facilities caused price differentials at times to be at the high-end of the historical average range of approximately 10% to 15% of the wti crude oil index price in the first half of 2012 and second half of 2013. after these periods, differentials improved due to expanding rail infrastructure and pipeline expansions coming online. on barrels that are transported over pipelines to either clearbrook, minnesota, or guernsey, wyoming, our realized price for crude oil is generally the quoted price for bakken crude oil less transportation costs from the point where the crude oil is sold.   13     we may have difficulty distributing our oil and natural gas production, which could harm our financial condition.   in order to sell the oil and natural gas that we are able to produce from the williston basin, we may have to continue our current, or potentially make new, arrangements for storage and distribution to the market. we will rely on local infrastructure and the availability of transportation for storage and shipment of our products, but infrastructure development and storage and transportation facilities may be insufficient for our needs at commercially acceptable terms in the williston basin area in which we operate. these factors may affect our ability to explore and develop our properties and to store and transport our oil and natural gas production, which may increase our expenses.   drilling locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.   our drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a location which is ready to drill to a location that will require substantial additional interpretation. there is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular location will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. the use of technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. even if sufficient amounts of oil or natural gas exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, resulting in a reduction in production from the well or abandonment of the well. if we drill additional wells that we identify as dry holes in our current and future drilling locations, our drilling success rate may decline and materially harm our business. we cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored locations, or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling locations. further, initial production rates reported by us or other operators in the williston basin may not be indicative of future or long-term production rates. in sum, the cost of drilling, completing, and operating any well is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive.   seasonal weather conditions and other factors could adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities.   in the williston basin, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities cannot be conducted as effectively during the winter months. winter and severe weather conditions limit and may temporarily halt the ability to operate during such conditions. these constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay or temporarily halt our oil and natural gas operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.   oil and gas operations are subject to comprehensive regulation, which may cause substantial delays or require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated, causing an adverse effect on us.   oil and gas operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including laws regulating removal of natural resources from the ground and the discharge of materials into the environment. oil and gas operations are also subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations which seek to maintain health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of drilling methods and equipment. various permits from government bodies are required for drilling operations to be conducted; no assurance can be given that such permits will be received. environmental standards imposed by federal, provincial, or local authorities may be changed and any such changes may have material adverse effects on our activities. moreover, compliance with such laws may cause substantial delays or require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated, thus causing an adverse effect on us. additionally, we may be subject to liability for pollution or other environmental damages that we may elect not to insure against due to prohibitive premium costs and other reasons. to date we have not been required to spend any material amount on compliance with environmental regulations. however, we may be required to do so in future and this may affect our ability to expand or maintain our operations.   14     exploration and production activities are subject to certain environmental regulations, which may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of our operations.   in general, our exploration and production activities are subject to certain federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. such laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our operations or financial condition to date. specifically, we are subject to legislation regarding emissions into the environment, water discharges, and storage and disposition of hazardous wastes. in addition, legislation has been enacted which requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. however, such laws and regulations are frequently changed and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance. generally, environmental requirements do not appear to affect us any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than other companies in the industry.   we believe that our operations comply, in all material respects, with all applicable environmental regulations. we are not fully insured against all possible environmental risks.   exploratory drilling involves many risks and we may become liable for pollution or other liabilities, which may have an adverse effect on our financial position.   drilling operations generally involve a high degree of risk. hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations, power outages, labor disruptions, blow-outs, sour gas leakage, fire, inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor, and other risks are involved. we may become subject to liability for pollution or hazards against which we cannot adequately insure or for which we may elect not to insure. incurring any such liability may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operations. for information about risks associated specifically with hydraulic stimulation, please see “business – hydraulic stimulation” on page 5 of this annual report.   any change to government regulation/administrative practices may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and our profitability.   the laws, regulations, policies, or current administrative practices of any government body, organization, or regulatory agency in the united states or any other jurisdiction, may be changed, applied, or interpreted in a manner that will fundamentally alter the ability of our company to carry on our business. the actions, policies, or regulations, or changes thereto, of any government body, regulatory agency, or special interest groups, may have a detrimental effect on us. any or all of these situations may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and/or our profitability.   climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce.   on december 15, 2009, the u.s. environmental protection agency, or epa, published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, or co2, methane, and other greenhouse gases, or ghgs, present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes. these findings allow the epa to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal clean air act. the epa has adopted two sets of regulations under the existing clean air act that would require a reduction in emissions of ghgs from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for ghg emissions from certain stationary sources. in addition, in april 2010, the epa proposed to expand its existing ghg reporting rule to include onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution facilities. if the proposed rule is finalized as proposed, reporting of ghg emissions from such facilities would be required on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011.   15     in addition, both houses of congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs, primarily through the planned development of ghg emission inventories and/or regional ghg cap and trade programs. most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall ghg emission reduction goal is achieved. the adoptions of any legislation or regulations that require reporting of ghgs or otherwise limits emissions of ghgs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to monitor and report on ghg emissions or reduce emissions of ghgs associated with our operations, and such requirement also could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce.   federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic stimulation could result in increased costs, additional operating restrictions or delays, and inability to book future reserves.   we engage third parties to provide hydraulic stimulation or other well stimulation services to us in connection with the wells for which we are the operator and we expect to do so in the future for other wells. hydraulic stimulation typically involves the injection under pressure of water, sand, and additives into rock formations in order to stimulate hydrocarbon production. hydraulic stimulation using fluids other than diesel is currently exempt from regulation under the federal safe drinking water act (the “sdwa”), but opponents of hydraulic stimulation have called for further study of the technique’s environmental effects and, in some cases, a moratorium on the use of the technique. several proposals have been submitted to congress that, if implemented, would subject all hydraulic stimulation to regulation under the sdwa. eliminating this exemption could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic stimulation and increase our cost of compliance and doing business. in addition, the epa’s office of research and development is conducting a scientific study to investigate the possible relationships between hydraulic stimulation and drinking water. the results of that study, which are expected to be available in draft during 2014 for peer review and public comment, could advance the development of additional regulations.   even in the absence of new legislation, the epa recently asserted the authority to regulate hydraulic stimulation involving the use of diesel additives under the sdwa’s underground injection control program (the “uic program”), which regulates the underground injection of substances. on may 4, 2012, the epa published draft uic program guidance for oil and natural gas hydraulic stimulation activities using diesel fuel. the guidance document is designed for use by employees of the epa that draft the uic permits and describes how regulations of class ii wells, which are those wells injecting fluids associated with oil and natural gas production activities, may be tailored to address the purported unique risks of diesel fuel injection during the hydraulic stimulation process. the epa is encouraging state programs to review and consider use of the above mentioned draft guidance. to the extent that epa’s new regulatory guidance is extended to our operations by permitting authorities, additional and significant compliance costs may arise that could materially affect our operations, cash flows, and financial position.   hydraulic stimulation operations require the use of water and the disposal or recycling of water that has been used in operations. the federal clean water act (the “cwa”) restricts the discharge of produced waters and other pollutants into waters of the united states and requires permits before any pollutants may be so discharged. on october 21, 2011, the epa announced its intention to propose federal clean water act regulations by 2014 governing wastewater discharges from hydraulic stimulation and certain other natural gas operations. the cwa and comparable state laws and regulations provide for penalties for unauthorized discharges of pollutants including produced water, oil, and other hazardous substances. compliance with and future revisions to requirements and permits governing the use, discharge, and recycling of water used for hydraulic stimulation may increase our costs and cause delays, interruptions, or terminations of our operations that cannot be predicted.   16     on may 16, 2013, the doi released a revised proposed rule that, if adopted as drafted, would require companies operating on federal and indian lands to (i) publicly disclose the chemicals used in the hydraulic stimulation process; (ii) confirm their wells meet certain construction standards; and (iii) establish site plans to manage flowback water. the revised proposed rule was subject to a 90-day public comment period, which ended on august 23, 2013. the department of energy (the “doe”) is also considering whether to implement actions to lessen the environmental impact associated with hydraulic stimulation operations. initiatives by the epa and other federal and state regulators to expand their regulation of hydraulic stimulation, together with the possible adoption of new federal or state laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic stimulation, could result in delays, eliminate certain drilling and injection activities, make it more difficult or costly for us to perform hydraulic stimulation, increase our costs of compliance and doing business, and delay or prevent the development of unconventional hydrocarbon resources from shale and other formations that are not commercial without the use of hydraulic stimulation. in addition, there have been proposals by non-governmental organizations to restrict certain buyers from purchasing oil and natural gas produced from wells that have utilized hydraulic stimulation in their completion process, which could negatively impact our ability to sell our production from wells that utilized these stimulation processes.   apart from federal regulatory initiatives, states have been considering or implementing new requirements for hydraulic stimulation, including restricting its use in environmentally sensitive areas. similarly, some localities have significantly limited or prohibited drilling activities, or are considering doing so. although it is not possible at this time to predict the final requirements of any additional federal or state legislation or regulation regarding hydraulic stimulation, any new federal, state, or local restrictions on hydraulic stimulation that may be imposed in areas where we conduct business, such as the bakken and three forks areas, could significantly increase our operating, capital, and compliance costs, as well as delay or halt our ability to develop oil and natural gas reserves.   the enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate, and other risks associated with our business.   the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (“dodd-frank act”), enacted in 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. the dodd-frank act requires the commodities futures trading commission (“cftc”) and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the dodd-frank act. although the cftc has finalized certain regulations, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished.   in october 2011, the cftc issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. the initial position-limits rule was vacated by the u.s. district court for the district of columbia in september 2012. however, in november 2013, the cftc proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. as these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on us is uncertain at this time.   a decline in the price of our common stock could affect our ability to raise further working capital and adversely impact our operations.   a prolonged decline in the price of our common stock could result in a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock and a reduction in our ability to raise capital. because one of the methods that we have used to finance our operations has been the sale of our equity securities, a decline in the price of our common stock could be especially detrimental to our liquidity and our continued operations. any reduction in our ability to raise equity capital in the future could force us to reallocate funds from other planned uses and, if so, would have a significant negative effect on our business plans and operations, including our ability to develop new projects and continue our current operations. if our stock price declines, we may not be able to raise additional capital or generate funds from operations sufficient to meet our obligations.   17     our securities are considered highly speculative.   our securities must be considered highly speculative, generally because of the nature of our business and the early stage of our exploration and development operations. we are engaged in the business of exploring and, if warranted, developing commercial reserves of oil and natural gas. any profitability in the future from our business will be dependent upon our ability to locate and develop additional reserves of oil and natural gas, which itself is subject to numerous risk factors, including those set forth herein. since we have not generated any material revenues, we expect that we will need to raise additional monies through the sale of our equity securities or debt in order to continue our business operations.   investors’ interests in us will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share if we issue additional shares or raise funds through the sale of equity securities.   in the event that we are required to issue any additional shares or enter into private placements to raise financing through the sale of equity securities, investors’ interests in us will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. if we issue any such additional shares, such issuances also will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other stockholders. further, any such issuance may result in a change in our management and directors.   we have never paid cash dividends and do not intend to do so.   we have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. we currently plan to retain any earnings to finance the growth of our business rather than pay cash dividends. payments of any cash dividends in the future will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, and capital requirements, as well as other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors.   our bylaws contain provisions indemnifying our officers and directors against all costs, charges, and expenses incurred by them.   our bylaws contain provisions with respect to the indemnification of our officers and directors against all costs, charges, and expenses, including an amount paid to settle an action or satisfy a judgment, (i) actually and reasonably incurred and (ii) in a civil, criminal, or administrative action or proceeding to which such person is made a party by reason of such person being or having been one of our directors or officers.   our bylaws do not contain anti-takeover provisions, which could result in a change of our management and directors if there is a take-over of us.   we do not currently have a stockholder rights plan or any anti-takeover provisions in our bylaws. without any anti-takeover provisions, there is no deterrent for a take-over of us, which may result in a change in our management and directors.   item 1b. unresolved