item 1a. risk factors   investment in our common stock is subject to various risks, including risks and uncertainties inherent in our business. the following sets forth factors related to our business, operations, financial position, or future financial performance or cash flows which could cause an investment in our securities to decline and result in a loss.   risks relating to our industry and the global economy a substantial or extended decline in coal prices would reduce our revenues and adversely impact our earnings and the value of our coal reserves.   our results of operations are substantially dependent upon the prices we receive for our coal. those prices depend upon factors beyond our control (some of which are described in more detail in other risk factors below), including: • the demand for domestic and foreign coal, which depends significantly on the demand for electricity and steel; • the price and availability of natural gas and other alternative fuels; • competition from other suppliers of coal and other energy sources; • the regulatory and tax environment for our industry and those of our customers; and • the proximity to and availability, reliability and cost of transportation and port facilities.   sustained declines in coal prices in the united states or other countries would materially adversely affect our operating results and cash flows, as well as the value of our coal reserves. for example, because of lower prices for certain types of coal that we produce, in 2012, we reduced or halted production at certain of our mines, and could further reduce our production in the future if coal prices decline further. lower demand for steam coal by north american electric power generators would reduce our revenues and could further reduce the price of our steam coal.   steam coal accounted for approximately 81% and 82% of our coal sales volume during 2012 and 2011, respectively. the majority of our sales of steam coal were to u.s. and canadian electric power generators. that demand is affected primarily by: • the overall demand for electricity, which is in turn influenced by the global economy and the weather, among other factors (for example, north america has experienced mild winters for the past two years, resulting in lower demand); • the availability, quality and price of competing fuels, such as natural gas, nuclear fuel, oil and alternative energy sources such as hydroelectric power, which may change over time as a result of, among other things, technological developments; • increasingly stringent environmental and other governmental regulations, including air emission standards for coal-fired power plants; and • higher than normal coal inventories at many utilities. recently, to the extent economically feasible, many north american electric power generators have shifted from coal to natural gas-fired power plants, and we expect that new power plants that are built will be fired by natural gas because they are cheaper to construct than coal-fired plants and because natural gas is a cleaner burning fuel with plentiful supplies and low cost at the current time. increasingly stringent regulations have also reduced the number of new power plants being built.any further reduction in the amount of coal consumed by north american electric power generators would reduce the amount of steam coal that we sell and the price that we receive for it, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves.   lower demand for metallurgical coal by u.s. and foreign steel producers would reduce our revenues and could further reduce the price of our metallurgical coal. we produce metallurgical coal that is used in both the u.s. and foreign steel industries. metallurgical coal accounted for approximately 19% and 18% of our coal sales volume in 2012 and 2011, respectively.  any deterioration in conditions in the u.s. or the foreign steel industry, including the demand for steel and the continued financial viability of the industry, would reduce the demand for our metallurgical coal and could impact the collectability of our accounts receivable from u.s. or foreign steel industry customers. the demand for foreign-produced steel both in foreign markets and in the u.s. market is also dependent on factors such as tariff rates on steel. in addition, the u.s. steel industry increasingly relies on processes to make steel that do not use coke, such as electric arc furnaces or pulverized coal processes. if this trend continues, the amount of metallurgical coal that we sell and the prices that we receive for it could decrease, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely 30 table of contents impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. lower demand for metallurgical coal in international markets would reduce the amount of metallurgical coal that we sell and the prices that we receive for it, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. competition within the coal industry may adversely affect our ability to sell coal, and excess production capacity in the industry could put downward pressure on coal prices. we compete with numerous other coal producers in various regions of the united states for domestic and international sales. we also compete in international markets against coal producers in other countries. international demand for u.s. coal exports also affects coal demand in the united states. this competition may affect domestic and foreign coal prices and impact our ability to retain or attract coal customers. for example, competitors using longwall mining technology in the illinois basin may, as a result of greater production efficiencies, be able to offer lower thermal coal prices compared to coal we produce in central appalachia. in addition, if the currencies of our foreign competitors decline against the u.s. dollar or against our customers' currencies, those competitors may be able to offer lower prices to our customers. in the past, high demand for coal and attractive pricing brought new investors to the coal industry, leading to the development of new mines and added production capacity. subsequent overcapacity in the industry has contributed, and may continue to contribute, to lower coal prices. in addition, lower coal prices set by our competitors may also put downward pressure on coal prices. lower demand for u.s. coal exports would reduce our foreign sales and could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations and could result in additional downward pressure on domestic coal prices. coal exports accounted for approximately 20% and 15% of our coal sales volume in 2012 and 2011, respectively. in addition to the factors described above, demand for u.s. coal exports is dependent upon a number of factors outside of our control, including currency exchange rates, ocean freight rates and port and shipping capacity. for example, if the value of the u.s. dollar were to rise against other currencies in the future, our coal would become relatively more expensive and less competitive in international markets, which could reduce our foreign sales and negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. in addition, if the amount of coal exported from the united states were to decline, this decline could cause competition among coal producers in the united states to intensify, potentially resulting in additional downward pressure on domestic coal prices. economic downturns and disruptions in the global financial markets have had and could in future have a material adverse effect on the demand for and price of coal, on our sales, margins and profitability, and on our own ability to obtain financing. in recent years, economic downturns and disruptions in the global financial markets have from time to time resulted in, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, including real estate. this occurred in particular in connection with the extreme market disruption in 2008, as well as the recent concerns about the debt burden of certain eurozone countries and the overall stability of the euro. these disruptions, and in particular the tightening of credit in financial markets, have from time to time adversely affected our customers' ability to obtain financing for operations and resulted in a temporary decrease in demand, lower coal prices, the cancellation of some orders for our coal and the restructuring of agreements with some of our customers. additionally, china is the world's largest importer of coal and decreases in their demand could impact the prices we receive for our export shipments. any prolonged global, national or regional economic recession or other similar events could have a material adverse effect on the demand for and price of coal, on our sales, margins and profitability, and on our own ability to obtain financing. we are unable to predict the timing, duration and severity of any potential future disruptions in financial markets and potential future adverse economic conditions in the united states and other countries and the impact these events may have on our operations and the industry in general. the loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our largest customer during 2012 accounted for approximately 9% of our total revenues, and sales to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 42%. these customers may not continue to purchase coal from us as they have previously, or at all. if these customers were to reduce their purchases of coal from us significantly or if we were unable to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our revenues and profitability could suffer materially. 31 table of contents we may not be able to extend our existing long-term supply contracts or enter into new ones with customers, and our existing supply contracts may contain certain provisions that may reduce protection from short-term coal price volatility, which could adversely affect the capability and profitability of our operations. we sell a significant portion of our coal under long-term coal supply agreements (contracts with a term greater than 12 months). the execution of a satisfactory long-term coal supply agreement is frequently the basis on which we undertake the development of coal reserves. during 2012, approximately 52% and 77% of our steam and metallurgical coal sales volume, respectively, was delivered pursuant to long-term contracts. as of january 25, 2013, 8% of our planned shipments for 2013 were uncommitted. we may not be able to enter into coal supply agreements to sell this production on terms, including pricing terms, as favorable to us as our existing agreements. further, our long-term contracts may sometimes prevent us from capitalizing on more favorable market prices. when our current contracts with customers expire or are otherwise renegotiated, our customers may decide to purchase fewer tons of coal than in the past or on different terms, including pricing terms less favorable to us. in large part as a result of increasing and frequently changing regulation, as described above, electric power generators are increasingly less willing to enter into long-term coal supply contracts, instead purchasing higher percentages of coal under short-term supply contracts. this industry shift away from long-term supply contracts could adversely affect us and the level of our revenues. for example, few customers with a contractual obligation to purchase coal from us would increase the risk that we will not have a market for our production. in addition, the prices we receive in the spot market may be less than the contractual price a customer is willing to pay for a committed supply. spot market prices also tend to be more volatile than contractual prices, which could result in decreased revenues. in addition, price adjustment, “price reopener” and other similar provisions in long-term supply contracts may reduce the protection from short-term coal price volatility that these contracts traditionally provide. price reopener provisions are particularly common in international metallurgical coal sales contracts. some of our coal supply contracts allow for the price to be renegotiated at periodic intervals. generally, price reopener provisions require the parties to agree on a new price based on the prevailing market price; however, some contracts provide that the new price is set between a pre-set “floor” and “ceiling.” in some cases, failure of the parties to agree on a price under a price reopener provision can lead to termination of the contract or litigation, the outcome of which would be uncertain. during periods of economic weakness, some of our customers may experience lower demand for their products and services and may be unwilling to take all of their contracted tonnage or request a lower price. customers may make similar requests when market prices have dropped significantly, as has occurred recently. any adjustment or renegotiation leading to a significantly lower contract price could result in decreased revenues. accordingly, supply contracts with terms of one year or more may provide only limited protection during adverse market conditions. our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness and financial health deteriorates. our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness and financial health of our customers. our customer base is changing with deregulation, as utilities sell their power plants to their non-regulated affiliates or third parties that may be less creditworthy, thereby increasing the risk we bear on payment default. these new power plant owners may have credit ratings that are below investment grade. furthermore, competition with other coal suppliers could force us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk we bear on payment default. in recent years, downturns in the economy and disruptions in the global financial markets have, from time to time, affected the creditworthiness of our customers and limited their liquidity and credit availability. we also have coal supply contracts with energy trading and brokering companies under which those companies sell coal to end users. these contracts involve an increased risk that we may not be able to collect payment if the creditworthiness of the trading or brokering company declines, as we typically do not have a direct contractual relationship with the end user. customers in other countries may be subject to other pressures and uncertainties that may affect their ability to pay, including trade barriers, exchange controls and local economic and political conditions. we derived 42% and 44% of our total revenues from coal sales made to customers outside the united states in 2012 and 2011, respectively. 32 table of contents regulatory and legal risks we are subject to a number of lawsuits, including various lawsuits relating to the explosion at the upper big branch mine, which, depending on the outcome, could have adverse financial effects or cause reputational harm to us. a number of legal actions are pending relating to past safety conditions at former massey mines, the april 2010 explosion at the upper big branch mine, which we refer to as the ubb explosion, and other related matters, including accusations of securities fraud. although in december 2011, we entered into a non-prosecution agreement and settlement resolving a number of these matters (see “legal proceedings”), a number of legal actions remain outstanding, and it is possible that other actions may be brought in the future. in particular, we are subject to purported class actions that allege violations of the federal securities laws, derivative actions against current and former massey directors and officers and actions brought by certain of the families of the twenty-nine miners that died in the ubb explosion and certain employees and contractors alleging injuries as a result of the ubb explosion. in addition, several former massey employees have been convicted of or charged with federal criminal charges. massey's former officers, directors and employees may continue to be subject to future actions and claims. under the merger agreement with massey, we agreed to leave in place and not modify provisions contained in the organizational documents of massey and its subsidiaries and certain related indemnification agreements that grant rights to indemnification and exculpation from liabilities for acts or omissions occurring at or prior to the effective time of the massey acquisition and related rights to the advancement of expenses in favor of any current or former director, officer, employee or agent of massey. the outcomes of these pending and potential cases and claims are uncertain. depending on the outcome, these actions could have adverse financial effects or cause reputational harm to us. we may not resolve these actions favorably, may agree to settle or may not be successful in implementing remedial safety measures that may be imposed as a result of some of these actions and/or investigations. climate change initiatives could significantly reduce the demand for coal and reduce the value of our coal and gas assets.   global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention, and the current administration has highlighted action to address climate change as a major priority of its second term. there is concern in particular about the emissions of ghgs, such as carbon dioxide and methane. combustion of fossil fuels like coal and gas results in the creation of carbon dioxide, which is currently emitted into the atmosphere by coal and gas end users, such as coal-fired electric power generators. as a result, there have been and are expected to be numerous ghg emissions initiatives that could reduce the demand for coal, including: • international action to extend the kyoto protocol through 2020 and to enact a new international treaty to take effect thereafter that would more aggressively reduce ghg emissions; • various federal epa initiatives, including a formal finding under the clean air act that ghg emissions result in “endangerment” to public health and welfare, required annual reporting of ghg emissions; the final “tailoring rule” requiring certain large industrial facilities, including power plants, to obtain permits to emit, and to use best available control technology to curb emissions of, ghgs; and a march 2012 proposed rule to impose federal limits on ghg emissions from new power plants; • state and regional climate change initiatives, such as the regional greenhouse gas initiative of eastern states and the western climate initiative, and recent and proposed legislation and regulation in various states, including california's ghg cap-and-trade regulations, which took effect for the electricity sector on january 1, 2013 and have the objective of reducing state-wide ghg emissions to 1990 levels by 2020; • litigation by various states and municipal entities seeking to have certain utilities, including some of our customers, reduce their emission of carbon dioxide; and • climate change guidelines for investors and lenders (for example, guidelines announced by three of wall street's largest investment banks in february 2008 that require the evaluation of carbon risks in the financing of utility power plants, which may make it more difficult for utilities to obtain financing for coal-fired plants). considerable uncertainty is associated with these initiatives, as the content of proposed legislation and regulation is not yet determined and many of the new regulatory initiatives remain subject to governmental and judicial review. given this uncertainty, the various alternatives proposed and the complex interactions between economic and environmental issues, it is difficult to predict the economic effects of these initiatives. 33 table of contents however, any regulatory controls on ghg emissions are likely to impose significant costs on many coal-fired power plants and industrial boilers and could have the effect of making them unprofitable. for example, if the epa's current rule proposal on carbon dioxide emissions becomes final, the construction of new coal-fired power plants may be economically unfeasible using currently available technology. accordingly, some existing power generators are switching to other fuels that generate fewer emissions, some power plants have closed and others are scheduled to close, and fewer coal-fired plants are being constructed, all of which reduce demand for coal and would reduce the amount of coal that we sell and the prices that we receive for it, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. in addition, regulatory controls on allowable emissions and the price of emissions allowances have a potentially significant impact on the demand for our coal based on its sulfur content. we sell both higher sulfur and low sulfur coal. more widespread installation by power generators of technology that reduces sulfur emissions may make high sulfur coal more competitive with our low sulfur coal. decreases in the price of emissions allowances could have a similar effect. significant increases in the price of emissions allowances could reduce the competitiveness of higher sulfur coal compared to low sulfur coal and possibly natural gas at power plants not equipped to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions. any of these consequences could result in a decrease in revenues from some of our operations, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. other extensive environmental laws and regulations also could affect our customers, reduce the demand for coal and cause our sales to decline.   our customers' operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations relating to the regulation of emissions and discharges; the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes; and other operational permits. in particular, the clean air act and similar state and local laws extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants, which are the largest end-users of our coal. a series of more stringent requirements may become effective in coming years, including:  • implementation of the current and more stringent proposed ambient air quality standards for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter and ozone; • implementation of the epa's 2005 clean air interstate rule or a more stringent replacement rule to significantly reduce nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide emissions from power plants in 27 eastern states; • implementation of the epa's december 2011 mercury and air toxics standards, which impose stringent limits on emissions of mercury and other toxic air pollutants from electric power generators and are being phased in generally over four years; and • more stringent epa regulations governing management and disposal of coal ash. see item 1 “business-environmental and other regulatory matters.” these environmental laws and regulations impose significant costs on our customers, which are increasing as their requirements become more stringent. these costs make coal more expensive to use and make it a less attractive fuel source of energy for our customers. accordingly, some existing power generators are switching to other fuels that generate fewer emissions, some power plants have closed and others are scheduled to close, and fewer coal-fired plants are being constructed, all of which reduce demand for coal and would reduce the amount of coal that we sell and the prices that we receive for it, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. the extensive regulation of the mining industry imposes significant costs on us, and future regulations or violations could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal. our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental, health and safety, transportation, labor and other laws and regulations relating to matters such as: • controls on emissions and discharges; • the effects of operations on surface water and groundwater quality and availability; • the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes; • the remediation of contaminated soil, surface and groundwater; • surface subsidence from underground mining; and • employee health and safety, and benefits for current and retired coal miners. these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent. for example:  34 table of contents • federal and state agencies and citizen groups have increasingly focused on the amount of selenium and other constituents in our wastewater discharges, and over the past five years a number of our subsidiaries have entered into consent decrees and orders imposing penalties and requiring extensive efforts to study and reduce our discharges of selenium and other substances; • msha and the state of west virginia have implemented or proposed changes to mine safety and health requirements to impose more stringent health and safety controls, enhance mine inspection and enforcement practices, increase sanctions, and expand monitoring and reporting; and • as described above, more stringent regulation of ghg emissions is being considered that, if expanded to cover coal mining, could increase our costs, require additional controls, or compel us to limit our current operations, particularly at our underground coal mines. in addition, these laws and regulations require us to obtain numerous governmental permits (described in more detail below). federal and state authorities also inspect our operations, and in response to the ubb explosion, federal and west virginia authorities conducted special inspections of coal mines. we expect the heightened inspection intensity to continue. we incur substantial costs to comply with the laws, regulations and permits that apply to our mining and other operations, and to address the outcome of inspections. the required compliance and actions are often time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production. in addition, due in part to the extensive and comprehensive regulatory requirements, violations of laws, regulations and permits occur at our operations from time to time and may result in significant costs to us to correct the violations, as well as substantial civil or criminal penalties and limitations or shutdowns of our operations. for example, in december 2011, we entered into a comprehensive settlement with msha in which we resolved various outstanding msha civil citations, violations and orders related to the ubb explosion and other matters for approximately $34.8 million (see “legal proceedings”). for more information concerning certain violations that have occurred, see exhibit 95 to this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2012. msha and state regulators may also order temporarily close a mine in the event of certain violations of safety rules, accidents or imminent dangers. in addition, regulators may order changes to mine plans or operations due to their interpretation or application of existing or new laws or regulations. any required changes to mine plans or operations may result in temporary idling of production or addition of costs. these factors have had and will continue to have a significant effect on our costs of production and competitive position, and as a result on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. new laws and regulations, as well as future interpretations or different enforcement of existing laws and regulations, may have a similar or more significant impact on us, including delays, interruptions or a termination of operations. our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to us. our operations, including those of our acquired companies, currently use and have used in the past hazardous materials, and from time to time we generate and have generated in the past limited quantities of hazardous wastes. we may be subject to claims under federal or state law for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, sediments, groundwater and other natural resources. (for example, see item 1 “business environmental and other regulatory matters” for a discussion of superfund and rcra matters.) such claims may arise out of current or former conditions at sites that we own or operate currently, as well as at sites that we and our acquired companies owned or operated in the past, and at contaminated sites that have always been owned or operated by third parties. our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share. we maintain extensive coal slurry impoundments at a number of our mines. these impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. slurry impoundments maintained by other coal mining operations have been known to fail, causing extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages. some of our impoundments overlie mined out areas, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of resulting damages. if one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. the failure of the fly ash impoundment at the tennessee valley authority's kingston power plant, although not regulated in the same manner as our slurry impoundments, could result in additional scrutiny of our impoundments. 35 table of contents these and other environmental impacts that our operations may have, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may be unable to obtain and renew permits necessary for our operations, which would reduce our production, cash flows and profitability. mining companies must obtain numerous regulatory permits that impose strict conditions on various environmental and safety matters in connection with coal mining. the permitting rules are complex and change over time, potentially in ways that may make our ability to comply with the applicable requirements more difficult or impractical or even preclude the continuation of ongoing operations or the development of future mining operations. the public, including special interest groups and individuals, have certain rights under various statutes to comment upon, submit objections to and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including bringing citizens' lawsuits to challenge permits or mining activities. in recent years, the permitting required for coal mining has been the subject of increasingly stringent regulatory and administrative requirements and extensive litigation by environmental groups.  as a result, the permitting process is costly and time-consuming, required permits may not be issued or renewed in a timely fashion (or at all), and permits that are issued may be conditioned in a manner that may restrict our ability to conduct our mining activities efficiently. we may also be required under certain permits to provide authorities data on the impact on the environment of proposed exploration for or production of coal. in particular, certain of our activities require a section 404 dredge and fill permit from the army corps of engineers (the “coe”). in recent years, the section 404 permitting process has been subject to increasingly stringent regulatory and administrative requirements and a series of court challenges, which have resulted in increased costs and delays in the permitting process. the coe has taken action to restrict the availability of its nationwide permit 21, and the epa has announced a new rulemaking that would further address the circumstances when a section 404 permit is needed. increasingly stringent requirements governing coal mining also are being considered or implemented under the surface mining control and reclamation act, the national pollution discharge elimination system permit process, and various other environmental programs. it is unclear what impact these and other developments may have on the types of conditions or restrictions that will be imposed on our future applications for surface coal mining permits and surface facilities at underground mines. many of our permits are subject to renewal from time to time, and renewed permits may contain more restrictive conditions than our existing permits. for example, many of our permits governing surface stream and groundwater discharges and impacts will be subject to new and more stringent conditions to address various new water quality requirements upon renewal over the next several years. to obtain renewed permits, we may have to petition to have stream quality designations changed based on available data, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to continue to operate the facility as planned or at all. although we have no estimates at this time, our costs to satisfy these conditions could be substantial. future changes or challenges to the permitting process could cause additional increases in the costs, time, and difficulty associated with obtaining and complying with the permits, and could delay or prevent commencing or continuing exploration or production operations, and as a result, adversely affect our coal production, cash flows and profitability. any failure by third parties to fulfill their indemnification obligations to us could increase our liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in the acquisition agreements entered into with the sellers of the companies that we have acquired (including coastal coal company, nicewonder and progress), and agreements that companies we have acquired entered into prior to our acquisition of them, such as the distribution agreement entered into by massey and fluor as of november 30, 2000 in connection with the spin-off of fluor by massey (the “distribution agreement”), the respective sellers and, in some cases, their parent companies or other parties, agreed to retain responsibility for and indemnify alpha against damages resulting from certain third-party claims or other liabilities, such as workers' compensation liabilities, black lung liabilities, postretirement medical liabilities and certain environmental or mine safety liabilities. the obligations of those other parties to indemnify us with respect to their retained liabilities will continue for a substantial period of time and in some cases indefinitely. in other cases, the sellers' indemnification obligations continue for a shorter period of time. certain indemnification obligations are also subject to deductible amounts and do not cover damages in excess of the applicable coverage limit. the assertion of third-party claims after the expiration of the applicable indemnification period or in excess of the applicable coverage limit, or the failure of any seller or other applicable party to satisfy their obligations with respect to claims and retained liabilities covered by the applicable agreements or breaches of its representations and warranties could have an 36 table of contents adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position if claimants successfully assert that we are liable for those claims and/or retained liabilities. recently, litigation has been commenced between fluor and the purchasers of fluor's prior business regarding the purchasers' obligation to indemnify fluor against claims and judgment arising out of that business. to the extent the litigation results in a determination that fluor is not entitled to indemnification from the purchasers, fluor's ability to satisfy all or some of its indemnification obligations with respect to alpha's subsidiaries under the distribution agreement may be negatively affected. see “legal proceedings-other legal proceedings.” changes in federal or state income tax laws, particularly in the area of percentage depletion, could cause our financial position and profitability to deteriorate. the federal government has been reviewing the income tax laws relating to the coal industry regarding percentage depletion benefits. if the percentage depletion tax benefit is reduced or eliminated, our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition could be materially impacted. risks relating to our operations a decline in demand for metallurgical coal would limit our ability to sell our high quality steam coal as higher priced metallurgical coal, which would reduce our revenues and profitability, and could affect the economic viability of some of our mines with higher operating costs. we are able to mine, process and market some of our coal reserves as either metallurgical coal or high quality steam coal. in deciding our approach to these reserves, management assesses the conditions in the metallurgical and steam coal markets, including factors such as the current and anticipated future market prices of steam coal and metallurgical coal, the generally higher price of metallurgical coal as compared to steam coal, the lower volume of saleable tons that results when producing coal for sale in the metallurgical market rather than the steam market, the increased costs of producing metallurgical coal, the likelihood of being able to secure a longer term sales commitment for steam coal and our contractual commitments to deliver different types of coal to our customers. a decline in demand for metallurgical coal relative to steam coal could cause us to shift coal from the metallurgical market to the steam market, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability. some of our mines operate profitably only if all or a portion of their production is sold as metallurgical coal to the steel market. if all the production from these mines had to be sold as steam coal, those mines would not be economically viable and would likely need to be closed, which could lead to asset impairment charges and accelerated reclamation costs, as well as reduced revenue and profitability. certain provisions in our long-term supply contracts may result in economic penalties upon our failure to meet specifications. coal supply agreements typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or the customer during specified events beyond the control of the affected party. following the ubb explosion, massey notified certain of its customers that it was declaring force majeure under certain of its sales contracts impacted by the lost tonnage resulting from the explosion and subsequent shutdown at the upper big branch mine. it is possible that certain of these customers may ultimately challenge the declaration of force majeure or contest whether they received timely or proper allocations or amounts of coal following the declaration of force majeure. in addition, most of our coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as btu, sulfur content, ash content, grindability, moisture and ash fusion temperature. failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. further, some of our contracts allow our customers to terminate the contract in the event of regulatory changes that restrict the use or type of coal the customer may use at its facilities or increase the price of coal or the cost of using coal beyond specified limits. as a result of these issues, we may not achieve the revenue or profit we expect to achieve from our long-term sales commitments. 37 table of contents our coal mining production and delivery is subject to conditions and events beyond our control that could result in higher operating expenses and decreased production and sales, which would adversely affect our operating results and could result in impairments to our assets. a majority of our coal mining operations are conducted in underground mines, with the balance at surface mines. our coal production at these mines is subject to operating conditions and events beyond our control that could disrupt operations, affect production and the cost of mining for varying lengths of time and have a significant impact on our operating results. adverse operating conditions and events that we have experienced in the past and may experience in the future include: • changes or variations in geologic conditions, such as the thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit; • mining, processing and loading equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; • limited availability or increased costs of mining, processing and loading equipment and parts and other materials from suppliers; • the proximity to and availability, reliability and cost of transportation facilities; • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy snows, heavy rains and flooding or hurricanes; • accidental mine water discharges; • coal slurry releases and impoundment failures; • unexpected mine safety accidents, including fires and explosions from methane and other sources; • a shortage of skilled labor; • strikes and other labor-related interruptions; and • the termination of material contracts by state or other governmental authorities. if any of these or other conditions or events occur in the future at any of our mines or affect deliveries of our coal to customers, they may increase our cost of mining and delay or halt production or sales to our customers either permanently or for varying lengths of time, which would adversely affect our operating results and could result in impairments to our assets. we maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of these risks. even where covered by insurance, these risks may not be fully covered and insurers may contest their obligations to make payments. failures by insurers to make payments could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends in part on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. in addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees or the inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. mining in central and northern appalachia is more complex and involves more regulatory constraints than mining in other areas of the united states, which could affect our mining operations and cost structures in these areas. the geological characteristics of northern and central appalachian coal reserves, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. as mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available or, if available, may not be able to be mined at costs comparable to those of the depleting mines. in addition, compared to mines in the powder river basin, permitting, licensing and other environmental and regulatory requirements are more costly and time consuming to satisfy. these factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and cost structures of, and our customers' ability to use coal produced by, our mines in northern and central appalachia. due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans, we may have exposure under those plans that extend beyond what our obligation would be with respect to our employees, and we may be required to make increased contributions due to plan underfunding status. we contribute to a multi-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by the umwa. in the event of a partial or complete withdrawal by us from a multi-employee plan that is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of that plan's unfunded vested benefits. based on the information available from plan administrators, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination would be material to our financial position and results of operations. if any other contributing employer withdraws from an underfunded plan, and that employer (or any member in its controlled group) cannot satisfy its obligations under the plan at the time of withdrawal, then we, along with the other 38 table of contents remaining contributing employers, would be liable for our proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested benefits, which would increase our liability in the case of withdrawal by contributing subsidiaries. the pension protection act of 2006 (“ppa”) requires a minimum funding ratio of 80% be maintained for a multi-employer plan. if the plan is determined to have a funding ratio of less than 80%, it will be deemed to be “seriously endangered”, and if less than 65%, it will be deemed to be “critical”; in either case, it will be subject to additional funding requirements. in october 2012, we received notice that the plan was considered to be in seriously endangered status for the july 1, 2012 plan year, and the plan was projected to have an accumulated funding deficiency by the plan year beginning july 1, 2018. in 2012, a funding improvement plan was sent to all participating companies for adoption. the goals of the funding improvement plan are to improve the funded status and to avoid an accumulated funding deficiency for all plan years in the funding improvement period. the funding improvement plan provides increased contribution rates beginning in 2017. the plan's funded status is reviewed annually by the certifying actuary. if the funded status does not improve prior to the beginning of 2017, the increase in contribution rates could be substantial, which could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded and we may have to make significant cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. we sponsor defined benefit pension plans in the united states for certain salaried and non-union hourly employees. for these plans, the ppa generally establishes a funding target of 100% of the present value of accrued benefits. generally, a plan with a funding ratio below the prescribed target is subject to additional contributions requirements (amortization of funding shortfalls). furthermore, any plan with a funding ratio of less than 80% will be deemed at risk and will be subject to even higher funding requirements. in addition, the value of existing assets held in our pension trust is affected by changes in the economic environment. the volatile financial markets in 2008 and 2009 caused investment income and the value of the investment assets held in our pension trust to decline. as a result, depending on economic recovery and growth in the value of our invested assets, we may be required to make significant cash contributions into the pension trust in order to comply with the funding requirements of the ppa, which could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in 2012, we contributed $0.5 million to our pension plans. we currently expect to make contributions in 2013 for our defined benefit retirement plans up to $20.0 million to maintain a funding ratio of at least 80%. as of december 31, 2012, our annual measurement date, our defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $207.1 million. these defined benefit pension plans are subject to the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (“erisa”). under erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation (“pbgc”), has the authority to terminate an underfunded defined benefit pension plan under limited circumstances. if our u.s. defined benefit pension plans are terminated for any reason while the plans are underfunded, we may incur a liability to the pbgc that could exceed the entire amount of the underfunding, which could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. expenditures for certain employee benefits could be materially higher than we have anticipated, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. we are responsible for certain long-term liabilities under a variety of benefit plans and other arrangements with active and inactive employees. the unfunded status (the excess of projected benefit obligation over plan assets) of these obligations as of december 31, 2012, as reflected in note 18 to our consolidated financial statements, included $1,006.2 million of postretirement obligations, $231.2 million of defined benefit pension and supplemental employee retirement plan obligations, $180.0 million of self-insured workers' compensation obligations and $141.8 million of self-insured black lung obligations. these obligations have been estimated based on assumptions including actuarial estimates, discount rates, estimates of mine lives, expected returns on pension plan assets and changes in health care costs. we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. in addition, future regulatory and accounting changes relating to these benefits could result in increased obligations or additional costs, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial results. several states in which we operate consider changes in workers' compensation laws from time to time, which, if enacted, could adversely affect us. cybersecurity attacks, natural disasters and other similar crises or disruptions may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business may be impacted by disruptions such as cybersecurity attacks or failures, threats to physical security, and extreme weather conditions or other natural disasters. these disruptions or any significant increases in energy prices that follow could result in government-imposed price controls. it is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 39 table of contents federal healthcare legislation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act (“ppaca”) was enacted, potentially impacting our costs of providing healthcare benefits to our eligible active and certain retired employees and workers' compensation benefits related to occupational disease resulting from coal workers' pneumoconiosis (black lung disease). the ppaca has both short-term and long-term implications on benefit plan standards. implementation of this legislation is expected to extend through 2018. in the short term, our healthcare costs could increase due to, among other things, an increase in the maximum age for covered dependents to receive benefits, changes to benefits for occupational disease related illnesses, the elimination of lifetime dollar limits per covered individual and restrictions on annual dollar limits per covered individual. in the long term, our healthcare costs could increase due to, among other things, an excise tax on “high cost” plans and the elimination of annual dollar limits per covered individual. beginning in 2018, the ppaca will impose a 40% excise tax on employers to the extent that the value of their healthcare plan coverage exceeds certain dollar thresholds. we anticipate that certain governmental agencies will provide additional regulations or interpretations concerning the application of this excise tax. we will continue to evaluate the impact of the ppaca, including any new regulations or interpretations, in future periods. if the assumptions underlying our accruals for reclamation and mine closure obligations prove to be inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. the smcra establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as deep mining. we accrue for the costs of current mine disturbance and final mine closure, including the cost of treating mine water discharge where necessary. estimates of our total reclamation and mine-closing liabilities total $856.7 million as of december 31, 2012, are based upon permit requirements and our historical experience, and depend on a number of variables, including the estimated future asset retirement costs, estimated proven reserves, assumptions involving profit margins of third party contractors, inflation rates and discount rates. furthermore, these obligations are unfunded. if these accruals are insufficient or our liability in a particular year is greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results and financial position could be adversely affected. estimates of our economically recoverable coal reserves involve uncertainties, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs, decreased profitability and asset impairments. we base our estimates of our economically recoverable coal reserves on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff, including various engineers and geologists, and periodically reviewed by outside firms. our estimates as to the quantity and quality of the coal in our reserves are updated annually to reflect production of coal from the reserves and new drilling, engineering or other data. these estimates depend upon a variety of factors and assumptions, many of which involve uncertainties and factors beyond our control and may vary considerably from actual results, such as: • geological and mining conditions that may not be fully identified by available exploration data or that may differ from experience in current operations; • historical production from the area compared with production from other similar producing areas; • the assumed effects of regulation and taxes by governmental agencies; and • assumptions about coal prices, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs. for these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities and qualities attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of net cash flows expected from particular reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. in addition, actual coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties and revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves may vary materially from estimates. accordingly, our estimates may not accurately reflect our actual reserves. any inaccuracy in our reserve estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs, decreased profitability and asset impairments. defects in title in our mine properties could limit our ability to recover coal from these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. we conduct a significant part of our mining operations on properties that we lease. title to most of our leased properties and mineral rights is not thoroughly verified until a permit to mine the property is obtained, and in some cases, title is not verified at all. accordingly, actual or alleged defects in title or boundaries may exist, which may result in the loss of our right 40 table of contents to mine on the property or in unanticipated costs to obtain leases or mining contracts to allow us to conduct our mining operations on the property, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. in addition, from time to time, the rights of third parties for competing uses of adjacent, overlying or underlying lands, such as oil and gas activity, coalbed methane, pipelines, roads, easements and public facilities, may affect our ability to operate as planned if our title is not superior or arrangements cannot be negotiated. furthermore, some leases require us to produce a minimum quantity of coal and pay minimum production royalties. if those requirements are not met, the leasehold interest may terminate. decreased availability or increased costs of key equipment and materials could impact our cost of production and decrease our profitability. we depend on reliable supplies of mining equipment, replacement parts and materials such as explosives, diesel fuel, tires and magnetite. the supplier base providing mining materials and equipment has been relatively consistent in recent years, although there continues to be consolidation, which has resulted in a limited number of suppliers for certain types of equipment and supplies. any significant reduction in availability or increase in cost of any mining equipment or key supplies could adversely affect our operations and increase our costs, which could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. in addition, the prices we pay for these materials are strongly influenced by the global commodities market. coal mines consume large quantities of commodities such as steel, copper, rubber products, explosives and diesel and other liquid fuels. some materials, such as steel, are needed to comply with regulatory requirements. a rapid or significant increase in the cost of these commodities could increase our mining costs because we have limited ability to negotiate lower prices, and in some cases, do not have a ready substitute. disruptions in transportation services and increased transportation costs could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers and adversely affect our business. in 2012, 70% of our produced and processed coal volume was transported from the load-out or preparation plant to the customer by rail. from time to time, we have experienced deterioration in the reliability of the service provided by rail carriers, which increased our internal coal handling costs. if there is future deterioration in the rail transportation services we use and we are unable to find alternatives, our business could be adversely affected. some of our operations are serviced by a single rail carrier. due to the difficulty in arranging alternative transportation, these operations are particularly at risk to disruptions, capacity issues or other difficulties with that carrier's transportation services, which could adversely impact our revenue and return on investment from these operations. we also depend upon trucks, beltlines, ocean vessels and barges to deliver coal to our customers. in addition, much of our eastern coal is transported from our mines to our loading facilities by trucks owned and operated by third parties. disruption of any of these transportation services due to weather-related problems, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks, terrorist attacks and other events could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers, resulting in decreased shipments and revenue. disruption in shipment levels over longer periods of time could cause our customers to look to other sources for their coal needs, negatively affecting our revenues and profitability. an increase in transportation costs could have an adverse effect on our ability to increase or to maintain production on a profit-making basis and could therefore adversely affect our revenues and earnings. because transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for our customers, increases in transportation costs could also reduce overall demand for coal or make our coal production less competitive than coal produced from other sources. because we purchase coal to be blended and resold with coal that we produce, disruption in supplies of coal produced by third parties could impair our ability to fill customers' orders or increase our costs. we sold 1.9 million tons of coal purchased from third parties during 2012, representing approximately 1.8% of our total coal sales volume during 2012. the majority of the coal that we purchase from third parties is blended with coal produced from our mines prior to resale, and we also process a portion of the coal that we purchase from third parties prior to resale. the availability of the coal we purchase may decrease and prices may increase as a result of, among other things, changes in overall coal supply and demand levels, consolidation in the coal industry and new laws or regulations. disruption in our supply of purchased coal could impair our ability to fill our customers' orders or require us to pay higher prices to obtain the required coal from other sources. any increase in the prices we pay for purchased coal could increase our costs and therefore lower our earnings. 41 table of contents our work force could become increasingly unionized in the future and our unionized or union-free work force could strike, which could adversely affect the stability of our production and reduce our profitability. approximately 89% of our 2012 coal production came from mines operated by union-free employees, and approximately 89% of our workforce is union-free, as of december 31, 2012. however, under the national labor relations act, employees have the right at any time to form or affiliate with a union. any further unionization of our employees or the employees of third-party contractors who mine coal for us could adversely affect the stability of our production and reduce our profitability. certain of our subsidiaries have wage agreements with the umwa or other unions that expire at various times. certain of our idled operations have wage agreements that can be terminated either by us or the union with notice, which could be a risk if those operations become active in the future. as is the case with our union-free operations, the union-represented employees could strike, which would disrupt our production, increase our costs and disrupt shipments of coal to our customers, and could result in the closure of affected mines, all of which could reduce our profitability. past and future acquisitions and other strategic transactions involve a number of risks, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to grow depends in part on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions. in the past five years, we have completed several significant acquisitions, including the massey acquisition, and several smaller acquisitions, joint ventures and investments. our ability to complete these transactions is subject to the availability of attractive targets that can be successfully integrated into our existing business and that will provide us with complementary capabilities, products or services on terms acceptable to us, as well as general market conditions, among other things. risks inherent in acquisition and other strategic transactions include: • uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities, of acquisition candidates; • the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business; • the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies from an acquisition in the amounts and on the timeframe due to inaccurate assumptions underlying estimates of expected cost savings, the deterioration of general industry and business conditions, unanticipated legal, insurance and financial compliance costs, or other factors; • the ability of management to manage successfully our exposure to pending and potential litigation and regulatory obligations; • unanticipated increases in competition that limit our ability to expand our business or capitalize on expected business opportunities, including retaining current customers; and • unanticipated changes in business, industry, market, or general economic conditions that differ from the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the acquisition. the ultimate success of an acquisition or other strategic transaction will depend in part on our ability to continue to realize the anticipated synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the acquired businesses with ours. we may not be able to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties that we acquire. problems that could arise from the integration of the acquired business may involve: • coordinating management and personnel and managing different corporate cultures; • applying our running right program at acquired mines and facilities; • establishing, testing and maintaining effective internal control processes and systems of financial reporting to the acquired business, particularly in the case of private company acquisitions; • the diversion of our management's and our finance and accounting staff's resources and time commitments, and the disruption of either our or the acquired company's ongoing businesses; • tax costs or inefficiencies, and • inconsistencies in standards, information technology systems, procedures or policies. any one or more of these factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated from a transaction, adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, employees or other third parties or reduce our earnings. moreover, any acquisition or other strategic transaction we pursue could materially affect our liquidity and capital resources and may require us to incur indebtedness, seek equity capital or both. future transactions could also result in our assuming more long-term liabilities relative to the value of the acquired assets than we have assumed in our previous acquisitions. further, acquisition accounting rules require changes in certain assumptions made subsequent to the measurement 42 table of contents period as defined in current accounting standards, to be recorded in current period earnings, which could affect our results of operations. we may incur additional goodwill impairment charges which may require us to record a significant charge to earnings. in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (“gaap”), we are required to assess our goodwill to determine if it is impaired on an annual basis and more frequently in the event of circumstances indicating potential impairment. these circumstances could include a decline in our actual or expected future cash flows or income, a significant adverse change in the business climate or in our industry, or a decline in market capitalization, among others. if our goodwill testing indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill in the period the determination is made. for example, we recorded impairment charges of $1,713.5 million during the year ended december 31, 2012 to reduce the carrying value of goodwill to its implied fair value for certain of our reporting units in eastern and western coal operations. we continue to carry goodwill on our balance sheet, and it is possible that in future, we may be required to record additional impairment charges for our goodwill. these charges could be significant, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to develop or acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine in a cost-effective manner coal reserves of the quality our customers need. although we have coal reserves that we believe will support current production levels for more than 20 years, we have not yet developed the mines for all our reserves. we may not be able to mine all of our reserves as profitably as we do at our current operations. in addition, in order to develop our reserves, we must receive various governmental permits. as discussed above, some of these permits are becoming increasingly more difficult and expensive to obtain and the review process continues to lengthen. we may be unable to obtain the necessary permits on terms that would permit us to operate profitably or at all. because our reserves are depleted as we mine our coal, our future success and growth depend in part on our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. our planned development projects and acquisition activities may not result in significant additional reserves, and we may not succeed in developing new mines or expanding existing mines beyond our existing reserves. replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be able to be mined at costs comparable to those of the depleting mines. we may not be able to accurately assess the geological characteristics of any reserves that we now own or subsequently acquire, which may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. exhaustion of reserves at particular mines also may have an adverse effect on our operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by those mines. our ability to acquire other reserves in the future could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties or the lack of suitable acquisition candidates available on commercially reasonable terms, among other factors. if we are unable to replace or increase our coal reserves on acceptable terms, our production and revenues will decline as our reserves are depleted, and our goodwill may become impaired. disruptions in supplies of coal from mines operated by third party contractors could impair our ability to fill customers' orders or increase our costs. we use third-party contractors to operate some of our mines. operational difficulties at these mines, increased competition for contract miners from other coal producers and other factors beyond our control could affect the availability, pricing and quality of coal produced for us by contractors. disruption in our supply of contractor-produced coal could impair our ability to fill our customers' orders or require us to pay higher prices obtain the required coal from other sources. any increase in the prices we pay for contractor-produced coal could increase our costs and therefore lower our earnings. changes in fair value of derivative instruments that are not accounted for as a hedge could cause volatility in our earnings. derivative financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair value. changes in fair value are recognized either in earnings or equity, depending on whether the transaction qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting, and if so, how effective the derivatives are at offsetting price movements in the underlying exposure. we account for some of our coal forward purchase and sales agreements as derivative instruments. we also use enter into commodity swap and option agreements for a portion of our diesel fuel needs to reduce the risk that changes in the market price of diesel fuel can have on our operations. some of these agreements have not been designated as qualifying cash flow hedges, so we are required 43 table of contents to record changes in fair value of these derivative instruments in earnings. these changes in fair value can have a significant non-cash impact on our earnings from period to period. our hedging activities for diesel fuel may prevent us from benefiting from price decreases. we enter into hedging arrangements, primarily financial swap contracts, for a portion of our anticipated diesel fuel needs. as of december 31, 2012, we had financial swap contracts with respect to approximately 53% and 39% of our calendar year 2013 and 2014 expected diesel fuel needs, respectively. while our hedging strategy provides us protection in the event of price increases for diesel fuel, it may also prevent us from the benefits of price decreases. if prices for diesel fuel decrease significantly below our swap prices, it could have a material effect on our financial condition, result of operations and cash flows. we are also exposed to counterparty risk related to our swap counterparties. risks relating to our liquidity our substantial indebtedness exposes us to various risks. at december 31, 2012, we had $3,449.9 million of indebtedness outstanding before discounts applied for financial reporting, representing 41% of our total capitalization, of which $1,266.7 million will mature in the next three years. in addition, at december 31, 2012, we had $0.3 million of letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility and $160.2 million of letters of credit outstanding under our accounts receivable securitization facility. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our business. for example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions because any related decrease in revenues could cause us to not have sufficient cash flows from operations to make our scheduled debt payments; • force us to seek additional capital, restructure or refinance our debts, or sell assets; • cause us to be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities such as acquisition opportunities and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; • cause us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service, reducing the availability of working capital and delaying or preventing investments, capital expenditures, research and development and other business activities; • cause us to be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our credit facility, will be at variable rates of interest; • make us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage; • limit our ability to borrow additional monies in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; and • result in a downgrade in the credit rating of our indebtedness, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness and result in more restrictive borrowing terms, including increased borrowing costs and more restrictive covenants, all of which could affect our internal cost of capital estimates and therefore impact operational and investment decisions. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at that time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, and the terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. our ability to make the required payments on our indebtedness is dependent on the cash flow generated by our subsidiaries, which may be constrained by legal, contractual, market or operating conditions from paying us dividends. we will be dependent to a significant extent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make that cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. these subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each of these subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. 44 table of contents we may incur more debt which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our significant indebtedness. we may incur additional indebtedness in the future under the terms of our credit facility and the indentures governing our debt securities. our credit facility provides for a revolving line of credit of up to $1.0 billion, with no borrowings outstanding as of december 31, 2012. the addition of new debt to our current debt levels could increase the related risks that we now face. for example, the spread over the variable interest rate applicable to loans under our revolving line of credit is dependent on our leverage ratio, and it would increase if our leverage ratio increases. additional drawings under our revolving line of credit could also limit the amount available for letters of credit in support of bonding obligations for our mines. the terms of our credit facilities and the indentures governing our notes limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to take certain actions, which may limit our operating and financial flexibility and adversely affect our business. our credit facilities and the indentures governing our notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, pay dividends, make redemptions and repurchases of certain capital stock, make loans and investments, create liens, engage in transactions with affiliates, and merge or consolidate with other companies or sell substantially all of our assets. these covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to execute preferred business strategies. in addition, complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions. operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with our covenants and payment obligations contained in our credit facility and the indentures governing our notes. if we violate these covenants or obligations under any of these agreements and are unable to obtain waivers from our lenders, our debt under all of these agreements would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders. if our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if we were able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. if our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. other covenants must be met for us to be able to access available capacity under our credit facility, including the maintenance of $500 million of liquidity through the end of 2014. if we are unable to access undrawn capacity when we need it, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. certain terms of our 2.375% convertible notes due 2015 and our 3.25% convertible notes due 2015 may adversely impact our liquidity. upon conversion of our 2.375% convertible notes due 2015 and our 3.25% convertible notes due 2015, we will be required to make certain cash payments to holders of converted notes. as a result, the conversion of the convertible notes may significantly reduce our liquidity, and we may not have sufficient funds to make these payments. our failure to make these payments with respect to our convertible notes would cause a default under the relevant indentures and a cross default under our other indentures and our credit facility. failure to maintain capacity for required letters of credit could limit our available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities, limit our ability to provide financial assurance for self-insured obligations and negatively impact our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditure or other general corporate requirements. at december 31, 2012, we had $160.5 million of letters of credit in place, of which $0.3 million was outstanding under our credit facility and $160.2 million was outstanding under our a/r facility. these outstanding letters of credit supported workers' compensation bonds, coal mining reclamation obligations, umwa retiree health care obligations, and other miscellaneous obligations. our credit facility provides for revolving commitments of up to $1.0 billion, all of which can be used to issue letters of credit, and our accounts receivable securitization facility provides for the issuance of up to $275.0 million in letters of credit. obligations secured by letters of credit may increase in the future. any such increase would limit our available borrowing capacity under our current or future credit facilities and could negatively impact our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements. moreover, if we do not maintain sufficient borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization facility for additional letters of credit, we may be unable to provide financial assurance for our mining operations. 45 table of contents failure to obtain or renew surety bonds on acceptable terms or maintain self-bonding status could affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations, which could adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal. federal and state laws require us to obtain surety bonds to secure payment of certain long-term obligations such as mine closure or reclamation costs, federal and state workers' compensation costs, coal leases and other obligations. these bonds are typically renewable annually. surety bond issuers and holders may not continue to renew the bonds, may demand less favorable terms upon renewal or may impose new or increased collateral requirements. we also maintain self-bonding in certain states, and the relevant state regulators may determine that we are no longer eligible for that status, which would require us to acquire additional surety bonds from third parties. those events could result from a variety of factors including, without limitation: • a significant decline in our financial position or creditworthiness; • the lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new bonds; • restrictions on the availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the indentures governing our outstanding debt and under our credit agreements; • the exercise by third-party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety or to require collateral for new or existing bonds; and • a determination by state regulators that a change to our self-bonding status is necessary to protect the state's interests. we have discussions from time to time, including recently, with state regulators regarding our self-bonding status and with surety bond providers regarding our existing and current surety bonds. in addition, if the financial markets experience the instability and volatility that they did in the recent past, our current surety bond providers may experience difficulties in providing new surety bonds to us, maintaining existing surety bonds, or satisfying liquidity requirements under existing surety bond contracts. a failure to maintain our self-bonding status, difficulty in acquiring surety bonds or additional collateral requirements would increase our costs and likely require greater use of our credit facility, a/r facility or alternative sources of funding for this purpose, which would reduce our liquidity. if we were to be unable to provide the financial assurance that is required by state and federal law to secure our reclamation and coal lease obligations, our ability to mine or lease coal and, as a result, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we may be unable to repurchase our debt if we experience a change of control. under certain circumstances, we will be required, under the terms of the indentures governing our various series of notes, to offer to purchase all of the outstanding notes of each series at either 100% or 101%, as the case may be, of their principal amount if we experience a change of control. if a change of control were to occur, we may not have sufficient funds to purchase our various series of notes or any other securities that we would be required to offer to purchase. we also might not be able to obtain additional financing to fund those purchases. our failure to repurchase the notes upon a change of control would cause a default under the relevant indentures and a cross default under our other indentures and our credit facility. a change of control (as defined for purposes of our credit facility) is also an event of default under the credit facility that would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of certain borrowings. if that were to occur, we may not be able to replace our credit facility on terms equal to or more favorable than the current terms, or at all. any of our future debt agreements may contain similar provisions as our existing indentures or credit facility. risks relating to our common stock sales of additional shares of our common stock, the exercise or granting of additional equity securities or conversion of our convertible notes could cause the price of our common stock to decline. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market and the availability of those shares for sale could adversely affect the price of our common stock. in addition, future issuances of equity securities, including issuances pursuant to outstanding stock-based awards under our long-term incentive plans or the conversion of convertible notes, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. we may issue equity or equity-lined securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, adjust our ratio of debt to equity, satisfy claims or obligations or for other reasons. the price of our common stock could also be affected by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may exist or develop involving our common stock and our convertible notes. 46 table of contents we do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. we have never declared or paid a cash dividend, and our board of directors periodically evaluates the initiation of dividends. if we were to decide in the future to pay dividends, our ability to do so would be dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to make cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our ability to pay dividends is limited by restrictions in our credit facility. provisions in our organizational documents and the instruments governing our debt may discourage a takeover attempt even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impose impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire us even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. for example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. thus, our board of directors can authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. these provisions may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company, and could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. if a “fundamental change” (as defined in the indentures governing our convertible notes) occurs, holders of the convertible notes will have the right, at their option, either to convert their convertible notes or require us to repurchase all or a portion of their convertible notes. in the event of a “make-whole fundamental change” (as defined in the indentures governing our convertible notes), we also may be required to increase the conversion rate applicable to any convertible notes surrendered for conversion. if a “change in control” (as defined in the indentures governing our senior notes) occurs, holders of the senior notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their senior notes. in addition, each indenture prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity is a u.s. entity that assumes our obligations under the applicable notes. our credit facility imposes similar restrictions on us, including with respect to mergers or consolidations with other companies and the sale of substantially all of our assets. these provisions could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our stockholders.   item 1b. unresolved