item 1a.    risk factors   as a result of operating losses and negative cash flows from operations, together with other factors, including the effect on our ability to borrow under our revolving credit agreements as a result of the “going concern” qualification with respect to our 2010 financial statements, we may not have sufficient liquidity to sustain operations and to continue as a going concern.   we incurred a substantial loss from operations and had negative cash flows from operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2010. our current operating plan indicates that we will incur a loss from operations for fiscal 2011 and generate negative cash flows from operating activities. as a result of these factors and the negative comparative store sales results in 2010, together with world-wide economic conditions and significant increases in yarn and fabric prices, among others, there exists substantial doubt that we will be able to continue as a going concern. in addition, we could be prevented from borrowing under our revolving credit agreements and this could have an immediate and significant impact on our liquidity.   our consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2010 included herein contain a “going concern” explanatory paragraph. these financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability of assets or the amounts of liabilities that may result should we be unable to continue as a going concern.   the bofa credit agreement and bank of montreal credit agreement contain covenants which require us to furnish our audited financial statements and audited financial statements of our canadian operations, respectively, within 120 days after the fiscal year end without a going concern or like qualification. our consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2010 included herein contain a “going concern” explanatory paragraph. absent a waiver, non-compliance with such covenants could constitute a default under the bofa credit agreement and will constitute an event of default under the boa credit agreement within 15 days following notice given from the administrative agent after april 30, 2011. noncompliance with such covenants could also, absent a waiver, allow the banks to prevent us from making borrowings under the bofa credit agreement and the bank of montreal credit agreement. in addition, all indebtedness under the bofa credit agreement and the bank of montreal credit agreement could be declared immediately due and payable upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default. all cash proceeds received by us and the guarantors under the bofa credit agreement must be applied to our outstanding obligations under the bofa credit agreement. our daily cash needs are funded through borrowings under the bofa credit agreement. if we are unable to borrow under the bofa credit agreement, we will be unable to fund our operations. we have made a formal request to bofa and lion for waivers, however there can be no assurances that we will be successful in obtaining waivers from our lenders.   in addition, the bofa credit agreement matures in july 2012, and the bank of montreal credit agreement matures in december 2012, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to negotiate a renewal or extension of these credit agreements with our existing lenders or enter into a replacement credit agreement with new lenders or commercially reasonably terms or at all. if we are not able to enter into a renewal, extension or replacement of the bofa credit agreement or the bank of montreal credit agreement prior to their respective maturities, we would no longer have access to liquidity from such revolving credit facility after its maturity date. as a result, our access to working capital would be limited and this could adversely affect our ability to finance and continue our operations.   the lion credit agreement also requires us to furnish our audited financial statements within 120 days after the fiscal year end without a going concern or like qualification. the requirement that such financials statements be delivered without a going concern qualification has been waived for financial statements relating to the 2010 fiscal year; however, such waiver ceases to be in effect if an event of default occurs under the bofa credit agreement as a result of a going concern qualification with respect to such financial statements. the lion credit agreement also contains cross-default provisions by which noncompliance with covenants under the bofa credit agreement could also constitute an event of default under the lion credit agreement. in addition, all indebtedness under the lion credit agreement could be declared immediately due and payable upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default. based upon the foregoing, we have classified our obligations outstanding under the lion credit agreement as current liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2010.   we are currently exploring alternatives for other sources of capital for ongoing cash needs, and we have engaged a financial advisory firm. we are working to develop and implement a plan to improve our operating performance and our cash, liquidity and financial position. this plan includes reduction of seasonal volatility in production levels at our manufacturing facilities in order to reduce direct labor costs and increase production efficiency; streamlining our logistics operations; merchandise price rationalization in our wholesale and retail channels; renegotiating the terms of a number of our retail real estate leases, including possible store closures; lengthening the cycle of payables to certain vendors and landlords; improving merchandise allocation procedures; and rationalizing staffing levels at our retail stores. in addition, we continue to develop other initiatives intended to increase sales, reduce costs and/or improve liquidity. if we cannot meet our capital needs from these actions, we 14 table of contents may be required to take additional steps such as further modifying our business plan to close additional stores, further reducing production or reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking to restructure our existing indebtedness. we also are in the process of seeking additional financing, to the extent available.   however, there can be no assurance that our plan to improve our operating performance and financial position will be successful or that we will be able to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. as a result, our liquidity and ability to timely pay our obligations when due could be adversely affected. in addition, any equity financing or warrants that we may be required to issue in connection with any financing may be substantially dilutive to existing stockholders and may require reductions in exercise prices or other adjustments of our existing warrants. furthermore, our vendors and landlords may resist renegotiation or lengthening of payment and other terms through legal action or otherwise. if we are not able to timely, successfully or efficiently implement the strategies that we are pursuing to improve our operating performance and financial position, obtain alternative sources of capital or otherwise meet our liquidity needs, we may need to voluntarily seek protection under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code.   if american apparel is unable to successfully implement steps to improve its liquidity position, it may need to voluntarily seek protection under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code.   we are currently experiencing significant liquidity constraints. if we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or obtain external sources of financing sufficient to fund our debt service requirements and operational needs in the near future, or we are not able to successfully or efficiently implement the strategies that we are pursuing to improve our operating performance and financial position, and may determine that it is in american apparel's best interests to voluntarily seek relief through a pre-packaged, pre-arranged or other type of filing under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code, including prior to the time we would otherwise be required to do so in an acceleration event. seeking relief under the u.s. bankruptcy code, if such relief does not lead to a quick emergence from chapter 11, could materially adversely affect the relationships between us and our existing and potential customers, employees, suppliers, partners and others. further, if we were unable to implement a plan of reorganization or if sufficient debtor-in-possession financing were not available, we could be forced to liquidate under chapter 7 of the u.s. bankruptcy code.   failure of american apparel to comply with covenants under its financing arrangements could result in the acceleration of its debt repayment obligations and an inability to borrow under its revolving credit agreements and therefore fund its operations.   the financing agreements between us and our lenders contain certain financial and other covenants, including covenants relating to our capital expenditure limitations, availability under our revolving credit facility and minimum consolidated ebitda as defined in the agreements. failure of american apparel to maintain compliance with any of these covenants can result in american apparel being unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, which we utilize to access our working capital, and may adversely affect the ability of american apparel to finance and continue its operations. such a failure could also result in acceleration of the outstanding debt in its entirety, and may adversely affect the ability of american apparel to obtain financing that may be necessary to effectively operate our business and grow the business going forward.   in particular, the bofa credit agreement and the bank of montreal credit agreement contain covenants which require us to furnish our audited financial statements and audited financial statements of our canadian operations, respectively, within 120 days after the fiscal year end without a going concern or like qualification. our consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2010 included herein contain a “going concern” explanatory paragraph. absent a waiver, non-compliance with such covenants could constitute a default under the bofa credit agreement and will constitute an event of default under the boa credit agreement within 15 days following notice given from the administrative agent after april 30, 2011. noncompliance with such covenants will also, absent a waiver, prevent us from making borrowings under the bofa credit agreement and the bank of montreal credit agreement. in addition, all indebtedness under the bofa credit agreement and the bank of montreal credit agreement could be declared immediately due and payable upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default. all cash proceeds received by the company and the guarantors under the bofa credit agreement must be applied to our outstanding obligations under the bofa credit agreement. our daily cash needs are funded through borrowings under the bofa credit agreement. if we are unable to borrow under the bofa credit agreement, we will be unable to fund our operations.   the lion credit agreement also requires us to furnish our audited financial statements within 120 days after the fiscal year end without a going concern or like qualification. the requirement that such financials statements be delivered without a going concern qualification has been waived for financial statements relating to the 2010 fiscal year; however, such waiver ceases to be in effect if an event of default occurs under the bofa credit agreement as a result of a going concern qualification with respect to such financial statements. the lion credit agreement also contains cross-default provisions by which 15 table of contents noncompliance with covenants under the bofa credit agreement could also constitute an event of default under the lion credit agreement. in addition, all indebtedness under the lion credit agreement could be declared immediately due and payable upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default. based upon the foregoing, we have classified our obligations outstanding under the lion credit agreement as current liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2010.   purchases of retail apparel merchandise are generally discretionary and economic conditions may cause a decline in consumer spending which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending, particularly in discretionary areas, such as apparel, which have recently deteriorated significantly in the united states and many other countries and regions and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. our business and financial performance, including our sales and the collection of our accounts receivable, may be adversely affected by the current decrease and any future decrease in economic activity in the united states or in other regions of the world in which we do business that could potentially cause a decline in consumer spending, including a reduction in the availability of credit, increased unemployment levels, higher fuel and energy costs, rising interest rates, adverse conditions in the housing markets, financial market volatility, recession, decreased access to credit, reduced consumer confidence in future economic conditions and political conditions, acts of terrorism, consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of fashion products, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. a decrease in consumer discretionary spending as a result of the current economic conditions may decrease the demand for our products. if consumer spending continues to slow down or decrease, we will not be able to improve our same store sales. in addition, reduced consumer spending may cause us to lower prices, suffer significant product returns from our customers or drive us to offer additional products at promotional prices, any of which would have a negative impact on gross profit. our ability to meet customers' demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of materials, parts and components from our suppliers. the current global financial crisis may materially adversely affect the ability of our suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations. if certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the financial crisis, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact consumer spending and our financial results. reduced revenues as a result of decreased consumer spending may also reduce our working capital for planned store improvements and to open additional stores in the manner that we have in the past. these and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for the american apparel's products and on our financial condition and operating results. in addition, as a result of decreased revenues and working capital, we may be required to seek additional financing which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. there can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize such markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit to consumers and businesses. we are not able to predict the duration and severity of the current disruption in the financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the united states and other countries. as a consequence, american apparel's operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. disruptions in the global financial markets could adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing, including by affecting the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us. our liquidity may be negatively impacted if one of our lenders under our credit agreements or other debt agreements, or another financial institution, suffers liquidity issues. in such an event, we may not be able to draw on all, or a substantial portion, of our debt agreements. the current economic environment could cause our lenders, counterparties and others to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them, which could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our debt agreements, to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for interest rates and foreign currencies, and to pay us amounts that may become due under other agreements or our counterparties might limit or place burdensome conditions upon future transactions with our. any of the foregoing could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.   also, if we attempt to obtain future financing, the credit market turmoil could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing. in the event we need access to additional capital to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness or pay capital expenditures, our ability to obtain such capital may be limited and the cost of any such capital may be significant. our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that 16 table of contents lenders could develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. if a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. in addition, the credit market turmoil could negatively impact certain of our customers and suppliers which could lead to a decrease in demand for our products and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. further, market conditions have resulted in severe downward pressure on the stock and credit markets, which could reduce the return available on invested corporate cash and thereby potentially increase funding obligations, which, if severe and sustained, could have material and adverse impacts on our results of operations and cash flows. american apparel has significant indebtedness and a failure to generate significant cash flow could render it unable to service its obligations and may place it at a competitive disadvantage and limit its ability to pursue its expansion plans. as of december 31, 2010, american apparel has substantial indebtedness, including $57.2 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and $81.2 million of borrowings under our facility with lion (as defined below). our ability to service this indebtedness is dependent on our ability to generate cash from internal operations sufficient to make required payments on such indebtedness. our level of indebtedness has important consequences to you and your investment in our common stock. for example, our level of indebtedness may:   •     require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to use for operations, investments, future business opportunities and other general corporate purposes;    •     make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations, and any failure to comply with such obligations, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness, which could lead to, among other things, an acceleration of our indebtedness or foreclosure on the assets securing our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition;    •     limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, expansion plans and other investments, which may limit our ability to implement our business strategy;    •     result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase on our floating rate borrowings;    •     heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, the industry or in the general economy and limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the retail industry; or    •     reduce our ability to make acquisitions or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise or successfully carry out our plans to expand our store base, product offerings and sales channels.   in addition, the terms of our indebtedness contain, and our future indebtedness may contain, various restrictive covenants that limit our management's discretion in operating our business, including limitations on capital expenditures. see “the terms of our indebtedness contain various covenants that may limit our business activities” below. it is uncommon for companies involved in the retail apparel business to operate with such a high level of indebtedness due to the underlying volatility of this business. despite the attendant risks, american apparel may have to enter into new credit facilities, or possibly issue additional common stock, to finance its planned retail expansion. there can be no assurances that american apparel will have access to any such financing on commercially reasonable terms or that it will be able to open its planned number of new stores in 2011 or beyond. if we are unable to gauge fashion trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales will decrease. our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. the retail apparel business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated, in part, by fashion and season. to the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for our market, our sales will be adversely affected. some of our past product offerings have not been well received by our customer base. merchandise misjudgments could have a material adverse effect on our image with our customers and on our operating results. fluctuations in the apparel retail market affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers, since merchandise usually must be manufactured in advance of the season and frequently before fashion trends are evidenced by customer purchases. in addition, the cyclical nature of the retail apparel business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we build up our inventory levels. as a result, we will be vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise production. if sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may lower planned margins. our brand image may also suffer if customers believe we are no longer able to 17 table of contents offer the latest fashion. the occurrence of these events could adversely affect our financial results by decreasing sales. we operate in the highly competitive retail industry and our market share may be adversely impacted at any time by the significant number of competitors in our industry that may compete more effectively than we can. the apparel industry is characterized by rapid shifts in fashion, consumer demand and competitive pressures, resulting in both price and demand volatility. the retail apparel industry, in general, and the imprintable apparel market, specifically, is fragmented and highly competitive. prices of certain products we manufacture, particularly t-shirts, are determined based on market conditions, including the price of raw materials. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. we compete with national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores and internet businesses that market similar lines of merchandise, including the gap, urban outfitters, h&m, uniqlo and forever 21. many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger, have substantially greater name recognition than american apparel and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and, therefore, may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. we face a variety of competitive challenges, including:   •     anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands; •     maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in diverse markets; •     developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers; •     sourcing raw materials and manufacturing merchandise efficiently; •     pricing our products to remain competitive while achieving a customer perception of comparatively higher value; •     implementing price increases to recover increasing costs of raw materials •     providing strong and effective marketing support; and •     maintaining high levels of consumer traffic to our retail stores.  we also face competition in european, asian and canadian markets from established regional and national chains. our success in these markets depends on determining a sustainable profit formula to build brand loyalty and gain market share in these challenging retail environments. if our international business is not successful or if we cannot effectively take advantage of international growth opportunities, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the wholesale business competes with numerous wholesale companies based on the quality, fashion, availability, and price of our wholesale product offerings. these companies include gildan activewear, hanesbrands, russell athletic and fruit of the loom. many of these companies have greater name recognition than american apparel in the wholesale market. many of these companies also have greater financial and other resources when compared to american apparel. if we cannot successfully compete with these companies, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we depend on key personnel, and our ability to grow and compete will be harmed if we do not retain the continued services of such personnel, or we fail to identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. we depend on the efforts and skills of our management team, and the loss of services of one or more members of this team, each of whom have substantial experience in the apparel industry, could have an adverse effect on our business. our senior officers closely supervise all aspects of our business, in particular the design and production of merchandise and the operation of our stores. because we have never operated as a public company prior to the acquisition, we need to enhance our management team, including those responsible over financial reporting, to address the reporting requirements of a public company. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified management or if any member of our management leaves, such departure could have an adverse effect on our operations and could adversely affect our ability to design new products and to maintain and grow the distribution channels for our products. in particular, we believe we have benefited substantially from the leadership and strategic guidance of dov charney. the loss of dov charney would be particularly harmful as he is considered intimately connected to our brand identity and is the principal driving force behind our core concepts and designs. he is also the driving force behind our growth strategy. our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing fashion trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising and marketing areas, and other functions. in addition, if we experience material growth, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. the market for qualified and talented design 18 table of contents and marketing personnel in the apparel industry is intensely competitive, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. if we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel as needed, our growth will be hampered and our operating results could be materially adversely affected. we rely heavily on immigrant labor, and changes in immigration laws or enforcement actions or investigations under such laws could significantly adversely affect our labor force, manufacturing capabilities, operations and financial results. we rely heavily on immigrant labor. adverse changes to existing laws and regulations applicable to employment of immigrants, enforcement requirements or practices under those laws and regulations, and inspections or investigations by immigration authorities or the prospects or rumors of any of the foregoing, even if no violations exist, could negatively impact the availability and cost of personnel and labor to american apparel. as a result, we could experience very substantial turnover of employees on short or no notice, which could result in manufacturing and other delays. we may also have difficulty attracting or hiring new employees in a timely manner, resulting in further delays. these delays could materially adversely affect our revenues and ability to complete. if we are not able to continue to attract and retain sufficient employees, our manufacturing capabilities, operations and financial results would be adversely affected. our growth strategy relies in part on the opening of new stores and the remodeling of existing stores periodically which may strain our resources and adversely impact the performance of our existing store base. our growth strategy and the success of our business depends in part on the opening of new american apparel retail stores, the renewal of existing store leases on terms that meet our financial targets, the remodeling of existing stores in a timely manner and the operation of these stores in a cost-efficient manner. successful implementation of this portion of our growth strategy depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, our ability to:   •     identify and obtain suitable store locations and negotiate acceptable leases for these locations;   •     complete store design and remodeling projects on time and on budget;    •     manage and expand our infrastructure to accommodate growth;    •     generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund our expansion plan and remain in compliance with the capital expenditure covenant and other relevant covenants in our credit facilities that may limit our ability to fund such expansion plans;    •     manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis;    •     foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise;    •     avoid construction delays and cost overruns in connection with the build-out of new stores;    •     supply our stores with proper types and quantities of merchandise; and    •     hire, train and retain qualified store managers and sales people.   our plans to expand our store base and to remodel certain existing stores may not be successful and the implementation of these plans may not result in an increase in our revenues even though they increase our costs. additionally, new stores that we open may place increased demands on our existing financial, operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could cause us to operate less effectively. furthermore, it is possible that by opening a new store in an existing market, we could adversely affect the previously existing stores in that market by drawing away traffic from the previously existing stores. our new stores may not be immediately profitable and, as such, we may incur losses until these stores become profitable. any failure to successfully open and operate new stores would adversely affect our results of operations. the market for real estate in desirable retail store locations is competitive, which could hamper our ability to open new stores. our ability to obtain real estate to open new stores in desirable locations depends upon the availability of real estate that meets our criteria, which includes, among other items, projected foot traffic, square footage, demographics and whether we are able to negotiate lease terms that meet our operating budget. in addition, we must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases from time to time. failure to secure real estate in desirable locations on economically beneficial terms or to renew leases on existing store locations on economically beneficial terms could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.   19 table of contents our plans to expand our product offerings and sales channels may not be successful, and implementation of these plans may divert our operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could impact our competitive position. our ability to grow our existing brand and develop or identify new growth opportunities depends in part on our ability to appropriately identify, develop and effectively execute strategies and initiatives. failure to effectively identify, develop and execute strategies and initiatives may lead to increased operating costs without offsetting benefits and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. these plans involve various risks discussed elsewhere in these risk factors, including:   •     implementation of these plans may be delayed or may not be successful;    •     if our expanded product offerings and sales channels fail to maintain and enhance our distinctive brand identity, our brand image may be diminished and our sales may decrease;    •     if we fail to expand our infrastructure, including by securing desirable store locations at reasonable costs and hiring and training qualified employees, we may be unable to manage our expansion successfully; and    •     implementation of these plans may divert management's attention from other aspects of our business and place a strain on our management, operational and financial resources, as well as our information systems.   in addition, our ability to successfully carry out our plans to expand our product offerings and our sales channels may be affected by, among other things, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer preferences and fashion trends. our expansion plans could be delayed or abandoned, could cost more than anticipated and could divert resources from other areas of our business; any of which could impact our competitive position and reduce our revenue and profitability. expanding our business internationally is an important part of our overall growth strategy and our success in this regard is subject to numerous risks, any of which could delay or prevent successful penetration into international markets. as we expand internationally, we need to effectively and efficiently open and operate stores in international locations. our international growth will be limited unless we can:   •     identify suitable markets and obtain suitable sites for store locations;    •     negotiate acceptable lease terms;    •     complete store design and remodeling projects on time and on budget;    •     hire, train and retain competent store personnel;    •     gain acceptance from foreign customers;    •     manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis;    •     manage and expand infrastructure to accommodate growth;    •     generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund our expansion plan;    •     manage foreign exchange risks effectively;    •     address existing and changing legal, regulatory and political environments in target foreign markets; and    •     manage international growth, if any, in a manner that does not unduly strain our financial, operating and management resources.   we anticipate that we will incur significant costs related to starting up and maintaining additional foreign operations. costs may include, and will not be limited to, obtaining prime locations for stores, setting up foreign offices and distribution facilities and hiring experienced management. these increased demands may cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the performance of our stores. furthermore, our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks.       20 table of contents if we fail to maintain the value and image of our brand, our sales are likely to decline. our success depends on the value and image of the american apparel brand. the american apparel name is integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. maintaining, promoting and positioning our brand depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. our brand could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives or if our public image or reputation or those of our senior personnel were to be tarnished by negative publicity. any of these events could result in decreases in sales. we expect to experience fluctuations in our comparable store sales and margins, which could cause our earnings to decline and make it difficult to gauge our growth at any specific period of time. our inability to maintain comparable store sales could cause our earnings to further decline. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales, as well as gross margins and operating margins, at american apparel's existing stores. american apparel's comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly and monthly basis, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, pricing, inflation, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, timing and level of markdowns and weather conditions. these factors may cause our comparable store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from our expectations, which could cause a decrease in our earnings. our ability to deliver strong comparable store sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and fashion trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our customer base, managing inventory effectively, using more effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. our failure to adequately protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brand and reduce demand for our merchandise. american apparel trademarks and service marks, and certain other trademarks, have been registered, or are the subject of pending trademark applications with the united states patent and trademark office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law. in the united states, american apparel is the registered owner of the “american apparel®,” “classic girl®,” “standard american®,” “classic baby®,” and “sustainable edition®” trademarks, among others. our products are noted for their quality and fit, and our edgy, distinctive branding has differentiated it in the marketplace. as such, the trademark and variations thereon are valuable assets that are critical to our success. we intend to continue to vigorously protect our trademark and brand against infringement, but we may not be successful in doing so. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. the unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our trademark would diminish the value of our brand, which could reduce demand for our products or the prices at which we can sell our products. our ability to attract customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping areas in which they are located. in order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping areas. net sales at these stores are partly dependent on the volume of traffic in those shopping areas. our stores benefit from the ability of a shopping area's other tenants to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of the shopping areas. we cannot control the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping areas, competition with other retailers for prominent locations or the success of individual shopping areas. in addition, factors beyond our control impact shopping area traffic, such as economic conditions nationally or in a particular area, competition from internet retailers, changes in consumer demographics in a particular market, the closing or decline in popularity of other stores in the shopping areas where our stores are located, deterioration in the financial conditions of the operators of the shopping areas or developers and consumer spending levels. the slowdown in the u.s. economy has negatively affected consumer spending and reduced shopping area traffic. a significant decrease in shopping area traffic could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, in pursuing its growth strategy, we will be competing with other retailers for prominent locations within the same successful shopping areas. if we are unable to secure these locations or unable to renew store leases on acceptable terms-as they expire from time-to-time-we may not be able to continue to attract the number or quality of customers we normally have attracted or would need to attract to sustain our projected growth. all these factors may also impact our ability to meet our growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.     21 table of contents fluctuations in our results of operations from quarter to quarter could have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations. we experience seasonal fluctuations in revenues and operating income. historically, sales during the third and fourth fiscal quarters have generally been the highest, with sales during the first fiscal quarter being the lowest. any factors that harm our operating results for the second and third fiscal quarters, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year. in order to prepare for our peak selling season, we must produce and keep in stock more merchandise than we would carry at other times of the year. any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during our peak selling season could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross profit. the terms of our indebtedness contain various covenants that may limit our business activities. the terms of our indebtedness contain, and our future indebtedness may contain, various restrictive covenants that limit our management's discretion in operating our business. in particular, these agreements include, or may include, covenants relating to limitations on:   •     dividends on, and redemptions and repurchases of, capital stock;    •     payments on subordinated debt;    •     liens and sale-leaseback transactions;  •       •     loans and investments;    •     debt and hedging arrangements;    •     mergers, acquisitions and asset sales;    •     transactions with affiliates;    •     disposals of assets;    •     changes in business activities conducted by us and our subsidiaries; and    •     capital expenditures, including to fund future store openings.   in addition, our indebtedness requires us to comply with certain financial ratios and maintain certain amounts of unused availability under our revolving credit facility. such restrictions could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, to provide for unanticipated capital investments or to take advantage of business or acquisition opportunities. see “risk factors-failure of american apparel to remain in compliance with certain financial covenants under its financing arrangements could result in the acceleration of its debt payment obligations.” also see “management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-debt agreements”. compliance with these covenants and these ratios may prevent us from pursuing opportunities that we believe would benefit our business, including opportunities that we might pursue as part of our plans to expand our store base, our product offerings and sales channels. substantially all of our assets are used to secure our credit facilities, certain term loans and equipment leasing agreements. our credit facilities are secured by substantially all of our assets including cash, inventory and accounts receivable, and our second lien term loan facility is also secured by substantially all assets of our company. all leasing agreements are secured by equipment provided by the leasing arrangement. in the event of a default on these agreements, substantially all of the assets of american apparel could be subject to liquidation by the creditors, which liquidation could result in no assets being left for the stockholders after the creditors receive their required payment. cost increases in the materials or labor used to manufacture our products could negatively impact our business and financial condition. the manufacture of our products is labor intensive and utilizes raw materials supplied by third parties. an important part of american apparel branding and marketing is that our products are made in the united states. the federal trade commission has stated that for a product to be called “made in usa”, or claimed to be of domestic origin without qualifications or limits on the claim, the product must be “all or virtually all” made in the u.s. the term “united states” includes the 50 states, the district of columbia, and the u.s. territories and possessions. “all or virtually all” means that all significant parts and 22 table of contents processing that go into the product must be of u.s. origin. that is, the product should contain no - or negligible - foreign content. we meet the ftc's “made in usa” standard and from the knitting process to the final sewing of a garment, all of the processes are conducted in the u.s., either directly by us in our knitting, manufacturing, dyeing and finishing facilities located in los angeles or through commission knitters, dyers and sewers in the los angeles metropolitan area and other regions in the u.s. if the cost of labor materially increases, our financial results could be materially adversely affected and our ability to compete against companies with lower labor costs could be hampered. material increases in labor costs in the united states could also force us to move all or a portion of our manufacturing overseas, which could adversely affect the american apparel brand identity. similarly, increases in the prices we pay to the suppliers of the raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to compete and could force us to seek to offset increased raw material costs by relocating all or a portion of our manufacturing overseas to locations with lower labor costs.   unionization of employees at our facilities could result in increased risk of work stoppages and high labor costs. our employees are not party to any collective bargaining agreement or union. if employees at our manufacturing or distribution facilities were to unionize, our relationship with our employees could be adversely affected. we would also face an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs. accordingly, unionization of our employees could have a material adverse impact on our operating costs and financial condition and could force us to raise prices on our products, curtail operations and/or relocate all or a portion of our operations overseas. we are subject to customs, advertising, consumer protection, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. we are subject to numerous regulations, including customs, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. we also are subject to numerous federal and state labor laws, such as minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits. if these regulations were to change or were violated by our management, employees, suppliers, buying agents or trading companies, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and hurt our business and results of operations. in addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could adversely affect our profitability. we are currently defending one wage and hour suit. should this matter be decided against us, we could incur substantial liability, experience an increase in similar suits, and suffer reputational harm. we are unable to predict the financial outcome of this matter at this time, and any views we form as to the viability of this claim or the financial exposure in which it could result may change. no assurance can be made that this matter, either individually or together with the potential for similar suits and reputational harm, will not result in a material financial exposure, which could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. see the section entitled “item 3. legal proceedings” for a more detailed discussion of our pending litigation. legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. we may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, which may increase our costs and materially limit our ability to operate our business. current environmental laws, or laws enacted in the future, may harm our business. we are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse environmental effects (such as emissions to air, discharges to water, and the generation, handling, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes). we are also subject to laws, regulations and ordinances that impose liability for the costs of clean up or other remediation of contaminated property, including damages from spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances or wastes, in certain circumstances without regard to fault. certain of our operations routinely involve the handling of chemicals and wastes, some of which are or may become regulated as hazardous substances. our product design and procurement operations must comply with new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products. if we fail to comply with the rules and regulations regarding the use and sale of such regulated substances, we could be subject to liability. the costs and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict. as is the case with manufacturers in general, if a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from its properties or any associated offsite disposal locations, or if contamination from prior activities is discovered at any of its properties, we may be held liable. the amount of such liability could be material.   23 table of contents our manufacturing operations are located and will be located in higher-cost geographic locations, placing us at a possible disadvantage to competitors that have a higher percentage of their manufacturing operations overseas. despite the general industry-wide migration of manufacturing operations to lower-cost locations, such as central america, the caribbean basin and asia, our textile manufacturing operations are still located in the united states, which is a higher-cost location relative to these offshore locations. in addition, our competitors generally source or produce a greater portion of their textiles from regions with lower costs than american apparel, which also places us at a cost disadvantage. our competitor's lower costs of production may allow them to offer their products at a lower price than our selling prices for similar products. this could force us to lower our margins or to compete more vigorously with non-price competitive strategies to preserve our margins and sales volume. our reliance on operational facilities located in the same vicinity makes our business susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting the location of our facilities. we conduct all of our manufacturing operations in the los angeles metropolitan area. specifically, we operate principally out of its 800,000 square foot facility in downtown los angeles, which houses our executive offices, as well as our cutting, sewing, and distribution operations. we also operate a knitting facility in los angeles, california; a cutting, sewing, garment dyeing and finishing facility in south gate, california; a fabric dyeing and finishing facility in hawthorne, california, a cutting, sewing, fabric dyeing and finishing facility in garden grove, california; as well as a warehouse facility in commerce, california and los angeles, california. as a result, our operations are susceptible to local and regional factors, such as accidents, system failures, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, and demographic and population changes, as well as other unforeseen events and circumstances. southern california is particularly susceptible to earthquakes. any significant interruption in the operation of any of these facilities could reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores and customers, which could result in lost sales, cancelled sales and a loss of loyalty to our brand. furthermore, if there were a major earthquake, we may have to cease operations for a significant portion of time due to damages to our factory and the inability to deliver products to our distribution centers. third party failure to deliver merchandise to stores and customers could result in lost sales or reduced demand for our merchandise. the efficient operation of our stores and wholesale business depends on the timely receipt of merchandise from our distribution centers. independent third party transportation companies deliver a substantial portion of our merchandise to our stores. these shippers may not continue to ship our products at current pricing or terms. these shippers may employ personnel represented by labor unions. disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees or contractors of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise, which could result in cancelled sales, a loss of loyalty to our brand and excess inventory. there can be no assurance that such stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. any failure by these third parties to respond adequately to our distribution needs would disrupt our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. timely receipt of merchandise by our stores and our customers may also be affected by factors such as inclement weather, natural disasters and acts of terrorism. we may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions, which would decrease our gross profits and net income. elimination or scaling back of u.s. import protections would weaken an important barrier to the entry of foreign competitors who produce their merchandise in lower labor cost locations. this could place us at a disadvantage to those competitors. our products are subject to foreign competition. foreign producers of apparel often have significant labor cost advantages, which can enable them to sell their products at relatively lower prices. however, in the past, foreign competitors have been faced with significant u.s. government import restrictions in the form of tariffs and quotas. the extent of import protection afforded to domestic apparel producers has been, and is likely to remain, subject to political considerations, and is therefore unpredictable. given the number of foreign low cost producers, the substantial elimination or scaling back of the import protections that protect domestic apparel producers such as american apparel could have a material adverse effect on our business and the financial condition and results of operation.       24 table of contents because we utilize foreign suppliers and sell into foreign markets, we are subject to numerous risks associated with international business that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products, resulting in a negative impact on our business and financial condition. our international operations subject us to risks, including:   •     economic and political instability;  •     restrictive actions by foreign governments;  •     greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights; •     changes in import duties or import or export restrictions;  •     fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect profit margins;  •     timely shipping of product and unloading of product through west coast ports, as well as timely truck delivery to american apparel's warehouses;  •     complications complying with the laws and policies of the united states affecting the exportation of goods, including duties, quotas, and taxes; and  •     complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws.  these and other factors beyond our control could disrupt the supply of our products, influence the ability of our suppliers to export our products cost-effectively or at all, inhibit our suppliers' ability to procure certain materials and increase our expenses, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. the rising cost of yarn, certain related fabrics, and other raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the price of yarn and the cost of certain related fabrics began to increase in the first quarter of 2010 as a result of added demand and supply shortages arising primarily from the effect of severe weather conditions in certain cotton producing countries and a ban on cotton exports imposed by the government of india. prices have continued to rise through the first quarter of 2011. while we have yet to experience any meaningful shortages in the supply of yarn and fabrics, we cannot predict if such shortages will occur. such shortages may result in an increase in our manufacturing costs and could result in a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations, as we are unable to predict whether we will be able to successfully pass on the added cost of raw materials to our wholesale and retail customers. litigation exposure could exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to regulatory inquiries, investigations, claims and suits. we are currently defending a consolidated putative shareholder class action, two consolidated shareholder derivative actions proceeding in federal and state court, respectively, one wage and hour suit, and numerous employment related claims and suits. we are cooperating with investigations by the sec and by the united states attorney's office for the central district of california and the southern district of new york. we are also responding to several allegations of discrimination and/or harassment that have been filed with the equal employment opportunity commission or state counterpart agencies. in the event one or more of these matters are decided against us, we could not only incur a substantial liability but also experience an increase in similar suits and suffer reputational harm. furthermore, the previous insurer for our employment practices liability insurance policy alleges that a sexual harassment suit is not covered by that insurance policy. we are unable to predict the financial outcome that could result from these matters at this time and any views we form as to the viability of these claims or the financial exposure in which they could result could change from time to time as the matters proceed through their course, as facts are established and various judicial determinations are made. no assurance can be made that these matters will not have material financial exposure, which together with the potential for similar suits and reputational harm, could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. see the section entitled “item 3. legal proceedings” for a more detailed discussion of american apparel's pending litigation. the process of upgrading our information technology infrastructure may disrupt our operations. we are increasingly dependent on information systems to operate our website, process transactions, respond to customer inquiries, manage inventory and production, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations. we have performed an evaluation of our information technology systems and requirements and have implemented 25 table of contents upgrades to our information technology systems supporting the business. these upgrades involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. there are inherent risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions. we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes. any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by our failure to successfully upgrade our systems, could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed which could-especially if the disruption or slowdown occurred during the holiday season-result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and customers or lost sales, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and cause our sales to decline. moreover, we may not be successful in developing or acquiring technology that is competitive and responsive to the needs of our customers and might lack sufficient resources to make the necessary investments in technology to compete with our competitors. accordingly, if changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our information systems are inadequate to handle our growth, we could lose customers. we have potentially adverse exposure to credit risks on our wholesale sales. we are exposed to the risk of financial non-performance by our customers, primarily in our wholesale business. sales to wholesale customers represented approximately 28.4% of total net sales for the year ended december 31, 2010. our extension of credit involves considerable use of judgment and is based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition and payment history. we monitor our credit risk exposure by periodically obtaining credit reports and updated financials on its customers. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for potential credit losses based upon historical trends and other available information. however, delays in collecting or the inability to collect on sales to significant customers or a group of customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. a failure in our internet operations could significantly disrupt our business and lead to reduced sales and reputational damage. our online retail operations accounted for approximately 6.7% of net sales for the year ended december 31, 2010 and are subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our operational results. risks to online revenue include, but are not limited to, the following:   •     changes in consumer preferences and buying trends relating to internet usage;  •     changes in required technology interfaces;  •     web site downtime;  •     difficulty in recreating the in-store experience on a web site; and  •     risks related to the failure of the systems that operate the web sites and their related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions.  our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce internet sales and damage our brand's reputation. we have identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2010. we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2010, as further described in item 9a of this annual report on form 10-k. these material weaknesses relate to our control environment and our financial controls and reporting process. a material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. in addition, due to the identified material weaknesses, management has concluded that as of december 31, 2010, our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective. the existence of material weaknesses could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and on a timely basis and, as a result, we may be unable to timely meet our reporting obligations with the sec. the existence of material weaknesses also could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and subject us to sanctions or investigations by the nyse amex, the sec and other regulatory authorities.   26 table of contents we are currently being audited by government tax agencies regarding our operating activities in previous periods which may result in an assessment of a material amount, the payment of which may adversely impact our financial conditions and operations. as of december 31, 2010, we are being audited by government agencies in various jurisdictions in regards to sales, vat, income, and other taxes for certain previous years. we believe that we properly assess and remit all required sales, vat, income, and other taxes in the applicable jurisdictions and, we account for any uncertain tax position or tax contingency in accordance with the provisions of asc 740-“income taxes” or asc 450-“contingencies” , respectively. we have accrued approximately $2.4 million and $6.5 million as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for all uncertain income tax positions and non-income tax contingencies. in determining the amounts related to the uncertain tax position, we recognize the benefits that have a greater than 50% probability of being sustained under audit. the actual amount upheld under audit with the relevant taxing authorities could be materially different than our estimates. at december 31, 2010 and 2009, we have recognized approximately $1.3 million and $5.1 million, respectively, related to uncertain income tax positions. for non-income tax contingencies, we estimate the probability of the related exposure and record a reserve if it is probable that a contingent liability exists. at december 31, 2010 and 2009, we have recorded $1.4 million and $1.0 million, respectively, related to non-income tax related tax contingencies.   there will be a substantial number of shares of american apparel's common stock available for sale in the future that may increase the volume of common stock available for sale in the open market and may cause a decline in the market price of american apparel's common stock.   the consideration issued in the acquisition to the american apparel stockholders included 37,258,065 shares of american apparel common stock that was issued at the closing to dov charney. the resale of these shares has not been registered and these shares are restricted securities under the securities laws. all of these shares are subject to lock-up agreements and cannot be sold publicly, in the absence of our consent, until the expiration of the restricted period under the lock-up agreement in december 2013 (which period may be shortened to december 2010 upon the occurrence of certain events). on december 1, 2010, we sold 1,129,576 treasury shares of our common stock to mr. charney at approximately $1.48 per share. in addition, on march 24, 2011, we entered into, and closed the transactions under, a purchase agreement pursuant to which (i) mr. charney purchased an aggregate of 1,801,802 shares of our common stock at a price of $1.11 per share and (ii) the three promissory notes issued by two subsidiaries of the company to mr. charney, which as of march 24, 2011 had an aggregate of approximately $4.7 million outstanding, were canceled in exchange for an issuance of an aggregate of 4,223,194 shares of our common stock to mr. charney at a price of $1.11 per share with 50% of such shares issuable to mr. charney only if prior to march 24, 2014, (x) the closing sale price of our common stock on the nyse amex exceeds $3.50 for 30 consecutive trading days or (y) there is a change of control of the company. the presence of these additional shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of american apparel's common stock.   in addition, we have outstanding warrants exercisable to purchase an aggregate of 17.8 million shares of its common stock, representing on an as-converted basis approximately 22.9% of the outstanding common stock (after giving effect to the issuance of the shares underlying such warrants). sof investments, l.p.-private iv (“sof”) holds a warrant ("sof warrant"), expiring on december 19, 2013, to purchase 1.0 million shares of american apparel common stock at an exercise price of $2.816 per share, which exercise price is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. as a result of the issuance of the new lion warrant (as defined below), the exercise price of the sof warrant was adjusted to $2.739 per share. in addition, lion capital (guernsey) ii limited (“lion”) holds a warrant, expiring on march 13, 2016, to purchase 16 million shares of american apparel common stock at an exercise price of $1.11 per share, which exercise price is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances.   on february 18, 2011, the company entered into a fifth amendment to the lion credit agreement, which among other things, (i) calls for the amendment of the outstanding warrants to: (a) adjust the term of the outstanding warrants to expire on february 18, 2018, and (b) adjust the exercise price of the warrants to $1.11, subject to anti-dilution and other adjustments, (ii) until august 2011, requires the issuance of new warrants to lion if our common stock or preferred stock is subsequently sold or a debt-for-equity exchange or conversion is completed in order to ensure lion's percentage beneficial ownership of our common stock remains at least equal to the percentage calculated immediately prior to such action, and (iii) until august 2011, if the common stock share sales price implied by the net proceeds received in connection with any equity sale or debt-for-equity exchange or conversion is less than $1.11, requires the exercise price of such new warrants to be reduced to the lowest such implied price.   on march 24, 2011, in connection with the sale of common stock to our ceo, dov charney, as discussed above, in accordance with the fifth amendment to the lion credit agreement, the company issued to lion a new warrant to purchase an aggregate of 759,809 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.11 per share, as such price may be adjusted from time 27 table of contents to time pursuant to the adjustments specified in the new lion warrant or the lion credit agreement.   our stock price may be volatile. our stock price may fluctuate substantially as a result of quarter to quarter variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our or other companies in the retail industry or markets served by our. in addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other stocks and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. failure to meet the expectations of investors, security analysts or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock and cause our credit ratings to decline. if we are unable to maintain our listing of american apparel's securities on the nyse amex or any stock exchange, it may be more difficult for our stockholders to sell their securities. our common stock is currently traded on the nyse amex. if for any reason the nyse amex should delist our securities from trading on its exchange, and we are unable to obtain listing on the nasdaq or another national securities exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including:   •     a limited availability of market quotations for our securities;  •     a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company;  •     a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and  •     a determination that its common stock is a “penny stock,” if the securities sell for a substantial period of time at a low price per share which would require brokers trading in its common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock.  voting control by our executive officers, directors, lenders and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. in connection with the closing of the financing transaction with lion, mr. charney and lion entered into a voting agreement, dated march 13, 2009 (the “investment voting agreement”), and the company and lion entered into an investment agreement, dated march 13, 2009 (the “investment agreement”). pursuant to the investment agreement, lion has the right to designate up to two persons to our board of directors and a board observer (or, if our company increases its board size to 12, lion has the right to designate up to three persons to our board of directors and no board observers), subject to maintaining certain minimum ownership thresholds of, or shares issuable under, the existing lion warrant, as amended by the existing lion warrant amendment, which gives to lion a right to purchase 16 million shares of company common stock at an exercise price of $1.11 per share, and which exercise price is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. though no change to the existing board of directors composition is required under the investment agreement, we may consider changes in lieu of increasing the size of our board of directors. two lion designees were elected to our board of directors at our annual meeting of stockholders, which was held on december 10, 2010. the investment agreement also provides that for so long as lion has the right to designate any person for nomination for election to our board of directors pursuant to the investment agreement, we will not increase the size of our board of directors to more than 10 directors (or 13 directors in the event we elect to increase the size of our board of directors to 12 directors as described above). pursuant to the investment voting agreement, for so long as lion has the right to designate any person or persons to the board of directors, mr. charney has agreed to vote his shares of common stock in favor of lion's designees, provided that mr. charney's obligation to so vote terminates if he owns less than 6,000,000 shares of company common stock (which number will be adjusted appropriately to take into account any stock split, reverse stock split or similar transaction). in addition, pursuant to the investment voting agreement, for so long as lion has the right to designate any person or persons to the board of directors, lion has agreed to vote its shares of common stock in favor of mr. charney and, each other designee of mr. charney, provided that lion's obligation to so vote terminates if either (i) mr. charney beneficially owns less than 27,900,000 shares of company common stock (which number will be adjusted appropriately to take into account any stock split, reverse stock split or similar transaction) or (ii) (a) mr. charney is no longer employed on a full-time basis by our or any subsidiary of our and (b) mr. charney is in material breach of the non-competition and non-solicitation covenants contained in the acquisition agreement, as extended by a letter agreement, dated march 13, 2009, between mr. charney and lion. accordingly, the parties to the investment agreement and the investment voting agreement are able to control the election of directors. mr. charney beneficially owns approximately 54.3% of our outstanding common stock and voting power (such calculation does not give effect to dilution as a result of any exercise of the existing lion warrant, the new lion warrant or the sof warrant. this concentration of ownership and the investment voting agreement could have the effect of delaying or 28 table of contents preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the current market price for their shares of our common stock. furthermore, mr. charney and lion may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote their shares of our common stock in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests.   significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues, operating income, net income and earnings per share, as well as future cash flows.   we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and therefore potentially less competitive in foreign markets. conversely, lowering our price in local currency may result in lower u.s.-based revenue. a decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of local operating expenses. we utilize certain foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure associated with certain assets and liabilities as well as anticipated foreign currency cash flows. these hedges are designed to reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. factors that could have an impact on the effectiveness of our hedging program include the accuracy of forecasts and the volatility of foreign currency markets as well as widening interest rate differentials and the volatility of the foreign exchange market. there can be no assurance that such hedging strategies will be successful and that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, while the hedges are designed to reduce volatility over the forward contract period, the contracts are not treated as hedges for accounting purposes, and therefore can create volatility in earnings during the period. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given period will depend in part upon our hedging activities.     29 table of contents item 1b.    unresolved