item 1a. risk factors risks associated with product development and commercialization our business currently depends entirely on the success of lomitapide. we may not be able to meet expectations with respect to sales of lomitapide and revenues from such sales, or to attain profitability or positive cash flow from operations, in the time periods we anticipate, or at all. our business currently depends entirely on the successful commercialization of our first product, lomitapide. lomitapide was launched in the u.s. in late january 2013, under the brand name, juxtapid™ (lomitapide) capsules, as an adjunct to a low-fat diet and other lipid-lowering treatments, including low-density (“ldl”) apheresis where available, to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (“ldl-c”), total cholesterol (“tc”), apolipoprotein b (“apo b”) and non-high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (“non-hdl-c”) in adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (“hofh”). on july 31, 2013, the european commission (“ec”) authorized lomitapide for marketing in the eu, under the brand name, lojuxta® (lomitapide) hard capsules, as an adjunct to a low-fat diet and other lipid-lowering medicinal products with or without ldl apheresis in adult patients with hofh. lomitapide is also approved for the treatment of hofh in norway and iceland, and was recently approved in mexico and canada. we also sell lomitapide, on a named patient basis, in brazil and in a limited number of other countries outside the u.s. and the eu where such a mechanism exists based on the u.s. or the eu approval. we expect that named-patient sales in brazil in the near term will continue to be our second largest source of revenues on a country by country basis outside the u.s., however we expect net product sales from named patient sales in brazil and other countries to continue to fluctuate quarter-over-quarter. we have also filed for marketing approval in certain other countries, and expect to file for marketing approval in additional countries where, in light of the potential size of the market and other relevant commercial and regulatory factors, it makes business sense to do so. we have a limited history generating revenues from the sale of lomitapide. our ability to meet expectations with respect to sales of lomitapide and revenues from such sales, and to attain profitability and positive cash flow from operations, in the time periods we anticipate, or at all, will depend on a number of factors, including the following:     •   our ability to continue to build, and to maintain, market acceptance for lomitapide among healthcare professionals and patients in the u.s., and to gain such market acceptance in the eu and in other countries where lomitapide is approved, or may in the future receive approval;     •   the degree to which both physicians and patients determine that the safety and side effect profile of lomitapide are manageable, and that the benefits of lomitapide in reducing ldl-c levels outweigh the risks, including those risks set forth in the boxed warning and other labeling information for juxtapid in the u.s. and in the prescribing information and risk management plan for lomitapide where it is approved outside the u.s., which cite the risk of liver toxicity, and any other risks that may be identified in the course of commercial use;     •   the prevalence of hofh being significantly higher than the historically reported rate of one person in one million, and more consistent with management’s estimates;     •   a safety and side effect profile for lomitapide in commercial use and in further clinical development that is not less manageable than that seen in our pivotal trial;     •   the degree to which patients are willing to agree to be treated with lomitapide after taking into account the potential benefits, the dietary restrictions recommended to reduce the risk of gastrointestinal (“gi”) side effects and the safety and side effect profile; the long-term ability of patients who use lomitapide to comply with the dietary restrictions, and to tolerate the drug and stay on the medication; and our ability to minimize the number of patients who discontinue lomitapide treatment due to tolerability issues;     •   our continued ability to be able to sell lomitapide on a named patient sales basis or through an equivalent mechanism in brazil and other certain key markets where such sales are permitted based on u.s. or eu approval, and the amount of revenues generated from such sales;   35 table of contents   •   the extent to which the diagnosis criteria for hofh used by physicians in the countries of the eu and in other countries is similar to that used by physicians in the u.s.;     •   the willingness of insurance companies, managed care organizations, other private payers, and government entities that provide reimbursement for medical costs in the u.s., the eu, mexico and canada and in other countries in which we may have or may receive approval to market lomitapide, to provide reimbursement for lomitapide at the prices at which we offer lomitapide without requiring genotyping or imposing any additional major hurdles to access;     •   our ability to obtain pricing approval required for selling lomitapide in the major countries of the eu and in mexico and canada at price levels that are acceptable to us without the applicable government agencies or other payers in such countries imposing caps, rebate, risk sharing or other requirements which effectively and significantly lower the reimbursement rates for lomitapide, and without narrowing the diagnosis criteria for hofh patients or imposing requirements that patients fail on other therapies, such as ldl apheresis, before using lomitapide;     •   our ability to gain approval of risk educational materials for lojuxta in each eu country, and of risk management plans in any future markets where lomitapide may be approved;     •   the level of acceptance by physicians of the efficacy data from our pivotal trial, which is based on the surrogate endpoints of ldl-c lowering, and which was not designed to show clinical outcome data as to the effect of the ldl-c lowering on cardiac outcomes in hofh patients;     •   the mix of government and private payers providing coverage and reimbursement for juxtapid in the u.s.;     •   our ability to gain approval of lomitapide outside the countries in which we have already received approval without restrictions that are substantially more onerous or manufacturing specifications that are more difficult to consistently achieve than those imposed in the u.s. and eu;     •   our ability to successfully defend ourselves in connection with the government investigation in the u.s. and the investigation of certain employees in brazil, without incurring significant damages, fines or penalties; and the willingness of physicians to continue to prescribe juxtapid, and in the case of named patient sales in brazil, the willingness of the government to continue to process orders of juxtapid without significant delay, despite such investigations;     •   our ability to successfully gain approval of lomitapide in pediatric patients, and to generate revenues from sales in the pediatric indications, if approved;     •   our ability to manufacture, or have manufactured, sufficient bulk quantities of active pharmaceutical ingredient (“api”) and sufficient quantities of each strength of lomitapide to meet demand;     •   our ability to continue to execute effectively on our commercial launch plan and other key activities related to lomitapide in the u.s., and to launch lomitapide successfully in the eu and in other key markets outside the u.s., and the level of cost required to conduct such activities; and     •   our ability to effectively differentiate lomitapide from kynamro® (mipomersen sodium) injection (“kynamro”), which is being commercialized in the u.s. by genzyme corporation (“genzyme”), a sanofi company (“sanofi”), under a collaboration with isis pharmaceuticals, inc. (“isis”), and from products directed at the pcsk9 gene if approved or used by physicians for hofh, and, in the eu, to differentiate lomitapide from ldl apheresis. we may not be able to gain market acceptance for lomitapide. the commercial success of lomitapide will depend upon the acceptance of the product by the medical community, including physicians, healthcare payers, and by patients. some physicians and patients may determine that the benefits of lomitapide in reducing ldl-c levels do not outweigh the risks, including those risks set forth in the boxed warning for juxtapid in the u.s., and in the prescribing information for lomitapide in the other countries in which it is approved, which warn physicians that lomitapide can cause hepatotoxicity as manifested by elevations in transaminases and increases in hepatic fat,   36 table of contents and that physicians are recommended to measure alanine aminotransferase (“alt”), aspartate aminotransferase (“ast”), alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin before initiating treatment and then to measure alt and ast regularly during treatment. during the first year of treatment, physicians must conduct a liver-related test prior to each increase in the dose of lomitapide or monthly, whichever occurs first. after the first year, physicians are required to perform these tests every three months and before increases in dose. the prescribing information in the eu provides further recommendations for monitoring for hepatic steatohepatitis/fibrosis and the risk of progressive liver disease, including annual imaging for tissue elasticity, and measuring of biomarkers and/or scoring methods in consultation with a hepatologist. because of the risk of liver toxicity, juxtapid is available in the u.s. only through a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (“rems”) program under which we certify all qualified healthcare providers who prescribe juxtapid and the pharmacies that dispense the medicine. the goals of the juxtapid rems program are:     •   to educate prescribers about the risk of hepatotoxicity associated with the use of juxtapid and the need to monitor patients during treatment with juxtapid as per product labeling; and     •   to restrict access to therapy with juxtapid to patients with a clinical or laboratory diagnosis consistent with hofh. similarly, in the eu and other countries where we have obtained approval of lomitapide, we have adopted a risk management plan to help educate physicians on the safety information for lomitapide and appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients. other countries that may approve lomitapide for use in the treatment of hofh may require risk management plans that may be similar or more onerous to those imposed in the u.s. and eu. physicians who prescribe lomitapide on a named patient basis where available in a country prior to approval are trained using either the juxtapid u.s. label and juxtapid rems program or the lojuxta eu prescribing information and risk management plan. physicians may be hesitant to prescribe lomitapide, and patients may be hesitant to take lomitapide, because of the boxed warning or warnings in the prescribing information, the requirements for liver testing and monitoring or the existence of the juxtapid rems program or risk management plan. the prescribing information also describes a number of additional contraindications, warnings, and precautions, including those related to pregnancy and potential adverse interactions with other drugs, and other potential adverse reactions, that could limit the market acceptance of lomitapide. for example, gi adverse reactions are common with lomitapide, occurring in 27 out of 29 patients in our pivotal trial. we expect that gi adverse reactions may lead to treatment discontinuation in some patients. to reduce the risk of gi adverse reactions, patients should adhere to a low-fat diet supplying less than 20% of calories from fat and the dosage of lomitapide should be increased gradually. in the eu and in many other countries outside the u.s., we cannot provide promotional or supportive materials directly to patients. as a result, it may be more difficult to support patients in their efforts to adjust to the recommended dietary restrictions while taking lomitapide. patients on lomitapide in the u.s. are also advised not to consume more than one alcoholic drink per day. the lojuxta prescribing information in the eu specifies that the use of alcohol during lojuxta treatment is not recommended. these requirements may make it more difficult for a patient to decide to begin therapy or to stay on therapy. as a result, even if a physician prescribes lomitapide, the prescription may not result in a patient beginning therapy or staying on therapy. the degree of market acceptance of lomitapide will also depend on a number of other factors, including:     •   physicians’ views as to the scope of the approved indication and limitations on use and warnings and precautions contained in the approved labeling or prescribing information for lomitapide;     •   the efficacy and safety of competitive therapies;     •   pricing and the perception of physicians and payers as to cost effectiveness;     •   the existence of sufficient private payer, government or other third-party coverage or reimbursement; and     •   the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution strategies.   37 table of contents if we are not able to achieve a high degree of market acceptance of lomitapide in the treatment of hofh, we may not be able to achieve our revenue goals or other financial goals or to achieve profitability or to become cash-flow positive in the time periods we expect, or at all. the number of patients suffering from hofh is small, and has not been established with precision. we believe that the patient population is significantly larger than the reported prevalence indicates, but our assumptions and estimates may be wrong. if the actual number of patients is smaller than we estimate or if any approval outside the u.s. and eu is based on a narrower definition of these patient populations, our revenue and ability to achieve profitability and to become cash-flow positive will be adversely affected, possibly materially. there is no patient registry or other method of establishing with precision the actual number of patients with hofh in any geography. medical literature has historically reported the prevalence rate of genotypic hofh as one person in a million, based on a prevalence rate for heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (“hefh”) of one person in 500. however, a recent article in the european heart journal (“ehj”) suggests that the prevalence rate of hefh may be closer to one person in 200, which would suggest a prevalence rate for hofh that is higher than historically reported. based on the existing data and our experience to date, we also believe that the prevalence rate of hofh is higher than historically reported, and that hofh is under-diagnosed. at the time the prevalence rate was first reported, many of the genetic mutations leading to defects in ldl-r function were not characterized, and some mutations remain uncharacterized even today. there are more than 1,600 known mutations that can impair the function of the ldl-r. the ehj estimates that current genetic tests may fail to positively detect 10% to 40% of fh cases which would suggest that any prevalence of hofh based on genotyping, or extrapolated from genotyped hefh patients, would be underestimated. in addition, genetic analysis of hofh can be complex. hofh patients may have the same defect on both copies of the same gene or may have different defects, one inherited from each parent, on the same gene or defects inherited from each parent on two different genes each affecting the function of the ldl-r. as a result, most physicians in the u.s. and in many other countries use clinical findings and family history to make a clinical diagnosis of hofh. because of the complexity of the genetics, there also appears to be more heterogeneity in clinical symptoms of hofh than historically reported which we believe may also result in under-diagnosis of hofh. in 2010, we commissioned an independent consultant in the healthcare industry to prepare a commercial assessment of the hofh market for us. in its report, this consultant estimated that the total number of patients likely to seek treatment with symptoms, signs or laboratory findings consistent with hofh in each of the u.s. and the eu is approximately 3,000 patients. this consultant’s estimates, however, included a segment of severe hefh patients whose levels of ldl-c are not controlled by current therapies. these patients may be phenotypically indistinct from hofh patients. lomitapide is indicated in the u.s. and eu and in the other countries in which it is approved solely for hofh. in the u.s., our prescribing information specifies that the safety and effectiveness of juxtapid have not been established in patients with hypercholesterolemia who do not have hofh. in the eu, the prescribing information for lojuxta specifies that genotyping of patients should be obtained whenever possible, and that other forms of primary hyperlipoproteinemia and secondary causes of hypercholesterolemia (e.g. nephrotic syndrome, hypothyroidism) must be excluded. we are not permitted to promote lomitapide in the u.s. or the eu or in any other country for any indication other than hofh. our existing and planned applications for marketing approvals of lomitapide outside the u.s. and eu are also limited to hofh. as part of the prescriber authorization form under the juxtapid rems program in the u.s., the prescriber must affirm that the patient has a clinical or laboratory diagnosis consistent with hofh. we do not know how many patients in the u.s. will be determined to have a clinical or laboratory diagnosis consistent with hofh, and there is no generally accepted and referenced definition of hofh matching these criteria. however, rare diseases are often found to have a higher than expected prevalence rate once products available to treat the disease are introduced. we expect this may also be true for hofh. as a result, we believe that, even if we exclude the patients in the u.s. who have a clinical phenotype consistent with hofh, but as to whom the prescriber cannot conclude and affirm that the patient has a clinical or laboratory diagnosis consistent with hofh, there still may be at least 3,000 hofh patients in the u.s. based on our belief that the base prevalence rate may be higher than our consultant estimated. there is no guarantee that our assumptions and beliefs are correct. the number of patients   38 table of contents with hofh could actually be significantly lower than we expect, and could be closer to the historically reported rates than to our estimate of at least 3,000 patients. ultimately the actual size of the total addressable market in the u.s. will be determined only after we have substantial commercial history selling juxtapid and we are able to assess how it is being used clinically. we believe that the prevalence rate in the eu is likely to be consistent with the prevalence rate in the u.s.; however we expect that our net product sales in the eu are likely to be lower than in the u.s. in some countries of the eu, genotyping of hofh patients is more common than in the u.s. although we do not know whether physicians in the eu will typically require genotyping of hofh patients for purposes of prescribing lojuxta. in addition, we do not know how many government payers in the key markets in the eu will require genotyping. not all of the genetic defects in ldl-c receptor function that result in hofh have been fully characterized. as a result, not all hofh patients will be correctly identified where genotyping is used as the sole diagnostic criteria. consequently, in any country where genotyping is the sole diagnostic criteria, the number of patients prescribed lomitapide may be substantially lower than we expect. in addition, because of economic pressures to reduce healthcare costs and the widespread availability and use of ldl apheresis as a treatment for hofh in the eu, it is likely that governmental authorities in some or all of the countries in the eu and in other markets outside the u.s. will impose some form of limitation on reimbursement or price. the total addressable hofh market in the eu and other key markets outside the u.s. will depend ultimately on how physicians in the eu or in such other markets diagnose hofh, how lomitapide is used in clinical practice, how government and other payers define hofh for reimbursement purposes and the restrictions imposed on reimbursement. if the total addressable market in the u.s. and the eu and other key markets are smaller than we expect, then it may be more difficult for us to generate revenues, to achieve our revenue goals and estimates and to achieve or maintain profitability. we have studied lomitapide initially for the treatment of patients with hofh who are 18 years of age or older. the label for juxtapid in the u.s. specifies that the safety and effectiveness of juxtapid have not been established in pediatric patients. the prescribing information for lojuxta in the eu specifies that the safety and efficacy of lojuxta in children below 18 years of age have not been established and the use of the product in children is therefore not recommended, and specifies further that no pediatric data are available. as part of our post-marketing commitments to the fda, we have completed a juvenile toxicology study in rodents to ascertain the impact, if any, of lomitapide on growth and development prior to initiating a clinical study of lomitapide in pediatric patients, and recently submitted the results of this study to the fda. we are working with the fda and the pediatric committee (“pdco”) of the european medicines agency (“ema”) on a unified protocol for a clinical trial of lomitapide in the treatment of pediatric hofh patients. there is no guarantee that the fda will agree with our view that the juvenile toxicology animal study supports proceeding with a pediatric study, or that we will be able to agree with the fda and pdco on a unified protocol. failure to reach agreement on a protocol could result in a delay in commencement of the trial. even if we conduct a study in pediatric patients, we may not be able to show, to the satisfaction of the fda or ema or regulatory authorities in other countries, that lomitapide is safe and effective in pediatric patients, and we may never receive approval for this indication. the lack of approval to market lomitapide for the pediatric hofh population will limit our product revenue potential, and may make it more difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. as a result of the side effects observed in the phase 3 clinical study and other clinical and preclinical studies of lomitapide, the prescribing information for lomitapide in the u.s. and the eu and in the other countries in which lomitapide is approved contains significant limitations on use and other important warnings and precautions, including a boxed warning in the juxtapid labeling, and warnings in the lojuxta prescribing information, citing concerns over liver toxicity. lomitapide may continue to cause such side effects or have other properties that could impact market acceptance, result in adverse limitations in any approved labeling or other adverse regulatory consequences, including delaying or preventing additional marketing approval in territories outside the u.s. and eu. the prescribing information for lomitapide in the u.s. and the eu and in the other countries in which lomitapide is approved contains significant limitations on use and other important warnings and precautions, including a boxed warning in the juxtapid labeling, and warnings in the lojuxta prescribing information   39 table of contents citing concerns over liver toxicity associated with use of lomitapide. lomitapide can cause elevations in liver transaminases. in our pivotal trial of lomitapide, 10 of the 29 patients (34%) treated with lomitapide had at least one elevation in alt or ast greater than or equal to three times the upper limit of normal (“uln”), including four patients who experienced liver enzymes greater than or equal to five times the uln. there were no concomitant clinically meaningful elevations of total bilirubin, international normalized ratio (“inr”), or alkaline phosphatase. lomitapide also has been shown to increase hepatic fat, with or without concomitant increases in transaminases. the median absolute increase in hepatic fat during the pivotal trial was 6% after both 26 and 78 weeks of treatment, from 1% at baseline, measured by magnetic resonance spectroscopy. hepatic steatosis associated with lomitapide treatment may be a risk factor for progressive liver disease, including steatohepatitis and cirrhosis. the most common adverse reactions in our pivotal trial of lomitapide were gi adverse reactions, reported by 27 of 29 patients (93%). adverse reactions reported by greater than or equal to eight patients (28%) in the hofh pivotal clinical trial included diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dyspepsia and abdominal pain. other common adverse reactions, reported by five to seven (17-24%) patients, included weight loss, abdominal discomfort, abdominal distension, constipation, flatulence, increased alt, chest pain, influenza, nasopharyngitis and fatigue. in a two-year dietary carcinogenicity study of lomitapide in mice, statistically significant increased incidences of tumors in the small intestine and liver were observed. the relationship of these findings in mice is uncertain with regard to human safety for a number of reasons, including the fact that they did not occur in a dose-related manner, and liver tumors are common spontaneous findings in the strain of mice used in this study. in a two-year oral carcinogenicity study of lomitapide in rats, there were no statistically significant increases in the incidences of any tumors, but there can be no assurance that long-term usage of lomitapide in humans will not be determined to cause an increase in tumors. as part of our post-marketing commitment to both the fda and the ema, we will conduct an observational cohort study to generate more data on the long-term safety profile of lomitapide, the patterns of use and compliance and the long-term effectiveness of controlling ldl-c levels. the commitment to the fda is to target enrollment of 300 hofh patients worldwide, and to study enrolled patients for a period of 10 years. the ema has required that all patients taking lomitapide in the eu be encouraged to participate in the study, and that the study period be open-ended. in the study, investigators will follow each patient to track malignancies, tumors, teratogenicity, hepatic effects, gi adverse reactions, events associated with coagulopathy, major adverse cardiovascular events and death. the ema has also required that we conduct a vascular imaging study to determine the impact of lomitapide on vascular endpoints. in addition, we will be conducting certain drug-drug interactions studies. post-marketing commitments imposed by regulatory authorities outside the u.s. and the eu may be more onerous and/or different than those imposed by the fda and the eu, which could result in increased costs to us. a failure to meet post-marketing commitments to the fda, the ema or other regulatory authorities could impact our ability to continue to market lomitapide in countries where we are unable to meet such commitments. in addition, as part of our observational cohort study or in the conduct of additional clinical studies or in post-marketing surveillance, we or others may identify additional safety information on known side effects or new undesirable side effects caused by lomitapide, or the data may raise other issues with respect to lomitapide, and, in that event, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:     •   regulatory authorities may suspend or withdraw their approval of lomitapide;     •   regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as warnings or contraindications or distribution and use restrictions;     •   regulatory authorities may require us to issue specific communications to healthcare professionals, such as “dear doctor” letters;     •   regulatory authorities may issue negative publicity regarding lomitapide, including safety communications;   40 table of contents   •   we may be required to change the way lomitapide is administered, conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials or restrict the distribution or use of lomitapide;     •   we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients;     •   the regulatory authorities may require us to amend the rems or risk management plan; and     •   our reputation may suffer. as part of the development of the commercial manufacturing process, we tightened specifications for lomitapide drug substance such that the commercial drug substance differs from the material used in our phase 3 trial in certain physical parameters and specifications that we do not believe are clinically meaningful. exposure measurements collected in the japanese pk/pd study using material meeting current commercial specifications do not align with certain earlier data generated under different circumstances using pre-commercial materials. factors such as assay condition, dosing regimen, and individual patient variability in exposure levels may account for the observed differences. while we do not expect the differences between our commercial material and our clinical material to have any efficacy or safety consequences, there is the risk that we may see unexpected differences in the type or severity of side effects with the commercial product from those observed in our phase 3 trial, or that regulatory authorities may not agree with our assessment that the differences between the materials, or any assessment we may make regarding any differences in results observed with the use of our commercial material are not clinically meaningful. any known safety concerns for lomitapide or any unknown safety issues that may develop could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of lomitapide, could affect our ability to obtain or retain marketing approval of lomitapide in one or more countries, or result in onerous restrictions on such approval, or could affect our ability to achieve our financial goals. if we are unable to execute effectively our sales and marketing activities, we may be unable to generate sufficient product revenue. we launched our first product, lomitapide in the u.s. in january 2013 under the brand name, juxtapid. in july 2013, the european commission (“ec”) authorized lomitapide for marketing in the eu, under the brand name, lojuxta. we have also received marketing approval for lomitapide in norway, iceland, mexico and canada. we also continue to expect to generate revenues from sales of juxtapid in brazil and in a limited number of other countries where lomitapide is available on a named patient sale basis as a result of the u.s. and eu approvals. we have filed for approval, or plan to file for approval, in other key markets. we are continuing to build our sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities in the u.s., and our commercial infrastructure in the eu, mexico, canada, argentina, brazil and taiwan. the establishment and development of our commercial infrastructure will continue to be expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to successfully fully develop this capability outside the u.s. in a timely manner or at all. we anticipate developing a commercial infrastructure across multiple jurisdictions. doing so will require a high degree of coordination and compliance with laws and regulations in such jurisdictions. if we are unable to effectively coordinate such activities or comply with such laws and regulations, our ability to commercialize lomitapide, if approved, in those jurisdictions will be adversely affected. our sales force in countries outside the u.s. may not be successful in commercializing lomitapide in the countries in which it is approved. if we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue consistent with our expectations and may not become profitable. we have evaluated markets outside the u.s. and major market countries in the eu to determine in which geographies we might choose to commercialize lomitapide ourselves, if approved, and in which geographies we might choose to collaborate with third parties. to the extent we rely on third parties to commercialize lomitapide, if marketing approval is obtained in the relevant country, we may receive less revenue than if we commercialized the product ourselves. in addition, we would have less control over the sales efforts of any third parties involved   41 table of contents in our commercialization efforts, including, in some countries, pricing. in the event we are unable to collaborate with third parties to commercialize lomitapide, for certain geographies, our ability to generate product revenue may be limited internationally. we only have regulatory approval for commercial distribution of lomitapide in a small number of countries. we are not currently permitted to market lomitapide in any other countries outside the u.s., the eu, mexico, canada, norway and iceland on a commercial basis. in order to market any product outside of these countries, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials, pricing, promotion and distribution of the product. approval procedures vary among countries, and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. regulatory authorities in countries outside the u.s. and eu are increasingly requiring risk management plans and post-marketing commitments which may be more onerous to those required in the u.s. and eu. the time required to obtain approval in other countries may differ from that required to obtain fda approval or marketing authorization from the ec. in particular, in many countries outside the u.s., including many eu countries, mexico and canada, a product must receive pricing and reimbursement approval before it can be commercialized. this can result in substantial delays in such countries, and the price that is ultimately approved may be lower than the price for which we expect to offer, or would be willing to offer, lomitapide in such countries, and may impact pricing in other countries. marketing and pricing and reimbursement approval in one country does not ensure such approvals in another. failure to obtain the approvals necessary to commercialize lomitapide in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approvals would impair our ability to develop foreign markets for lomitapide. it is possible that regulatory authorities in countries where we seek approval may not consider the efficacy and safety data from our pivotal phase 3 clinical trial of lomitapide in patients with hofh or the risk/benefit profile of lomitapide to be sufficient for approval of lomitapide for this indication, or may not consider ldl-c lowering alone sufficient for approval without demonstrating a beneficial effect on a clinical outcome. it is possible that such regulatory authorities may not agree with our assessment that certain changes made to lomitapide’s physical parameters and specifications as compared to the material used in the pivotal trial are not clinically meaningful. if such regulatory authorities require additional studies or trials or changes to specifications, we would incur increased costs and delays in the marketing approval process and may not be able to obtain approval. for example, japanese regulatory authorities required us to conduct a phase 1 bridging study of the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (“pk/pd”) properties of lomitapide in japanese and caucasian patients and are requiring a small therapeutic study of lomitapide in japanese hofh patients. there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to generate the data we need to submit a marketing authorization application in japan or to achieve regulatory approval in japan on a reasonable timeline, or at all. in brazil and in a limited number of other countries where permitted based on u.s. or eu approval of lomitapide we are making lomitapide available on a named patient sales or equivalent basis. there is no assurance that named patient sales will continue to be authorized in any particular country. in certain countries, we may decide not to pursue named patient sales even if permitted to do so. even if named patient sales or their equivalent sales are permitted in a certain country, and we elect to make lomitapide available on such basis in such country, there is no guarantee that physicians in such country will prescribe lomitapide, and that patients will be willing to start therapy, or that the country will agree to pay for the product or, after access is granted, will continue to pay for the product at the levels initially approved, or at all. there is no guarantee that we will generate sales or substantial revenue from such sales. if named patient sales do not meet our expectations in key markets outside the u.s. and eu, we may not be able to meet our expectations with respect to sales of lomitapide or revenues from such sales in the time periods we anticipate or at all. there may also be countries where we choose to make lomitapide available at no cost prior to approval in such country.   42 table of contents we currently depend on a single third-party manufacturer to produce our lomitapide drug substance and a different third-party manufacturer to produce our drug product. this may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of lomitapide or will be able to obtain such quantities at an acceptable cost, which could delay, prevent or impair our clinical development and commercialization of lomitapide. we currently have no manufacturing facilities and limited personnel with manufacturing experience. we rely on a contract manufacturer to produce drug substance for lomitapide and another contract manufacturer for drug product for our clinical trials and for commercial supplies. we have entered into a long-term commercial supply agreement for lomitapide drug substance and drug product with each such contract manufacturer. we do not have any long-term agreements in place for redundant supply or a second source for lomitapide drug substance or drug product. any termination or non-renewal of our agreements, including by reason of merger and acquisition activities, performance failure, bankruptcy filing, plant closing or strategic shift on the part of our existing or future manufacturers could impact availability of lomitapide for commercial sale in any country where it is approved for commercial sale or sold on a named patient basis, or may delay further clinical development or marketing approval of lomitapide in additional countries. if for some reason either of our current contract manufacturers cannot or will not perform as agreed, we may be required to replace that manufacturer. if we are unable to maintain arrangements for third-party manufacturing, or are unable to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully commercialize lomitapide or complete development of lomitapide. for example, we have been notified that our drug substance contract manufacturer has signed a letter of intent to sell the facility at which lomitapide is currently manufactured, and is in the process of finalizing the sale transaction. if the facility is not sold, the manufacturer intends to close the facility in 2014, and consolidate its manufacturing operations at another location. we are in the process of expanding our inventory of lomitapide drug substance to mitigate the risk of shutdown of the existing facility. we have also entered into a letter of intent with a potential second source of drug substance manufacture, and have commenced technology transfer activities. although we believe there are a number of third-party manufacturers that could manufacture the clinical and commercial supply of lomitapide drug substance or drug product, we may incur significant added costs and delays in identifying and qualifying any such replacements. furthermore, although we generally do not begin a clinical trial unless we have a sufficient supply of a product candidate for the trial, any significant delay in the supply of a product candidate for an ongoing trial due to the need to replace a third-party manufacturer could delay completion of the trial. if for any reason we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop, or the drug substances used to manufacture it, it will be more difficult for us to compete effectively, generate revenue, and further develop our products. in addition, if we are unable to assure a sufficient quantity of the drug for patients with rare diseases or conditions, we may lose any orphan drug exclusivity to which the product otherwise would be entitled. we have limited experience manufacturing commercial supplies of lomitapide. we rely on our contract manufacturers to utilize processes that consistently produce drug substance and drug product to their required specifications, including those imposed by the fda, the ema and other regulatory authorities. as part of the development of the commercial manufacturing process, we tightened specifications for drug substance such that the commercial drug substance differs from the material used in our phase 3 trial in certain physical parameters and specifications that we do not believe are clinically meaningful. we have completed validation of the manufacturing process for drug substance and drug product at the current production sites. there can be no assurance that our contractors will consistently be able to produce commercial supplies of drug substance or drug product meeting the approved specifications. any failure by our third-party manufacturers to produce product that meets specifications could lead to a shortage of lomitapide. the fda, the ema and other regulatory authorities require that product candidates and drug products be manufactured according to current good manufacturing practice (“cgmp”). any failure by our third-party manufacturers to comply with cgmp could lead to a shortage of lomitapide. in addition, such failure could be the basis for action by the fda, the ema or regulatory authorities in other territories or countries to withdraw approvals previously granted to us and for other regulatory action, including seizure, injunction or other civil or criminal penalties. certain countries may impose additional requirements on the manufacturing of drug products   43 table of contents or drug substance, and on our third-party manufacturers, as part of the regulatory approval process for lomitapide in such countries. the failure by us or our third-party manufacturers to satisfy such requirements could impact our ability to obtain or maintain approval of lomitapide in such countries. our market is subject to intense competition. if we are unable to compete effectively, lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our potential competitors include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies, academic institutions, government agencies and research institutions. all of these competitors currently engage in, have engaged in or may engage in the future in the development, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of new pharmaceuticals, some of which may compete with lomitapide or other product candidates we may develop. smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. key competitive factors affecting the commercial success of lomitapide and any other product candidates that we develop are likely to be efficacy, safety and tolerability profile, reliability, convenience of dosing, price and reimbursement. the market for cholesterol-lowering therapeutics is large and competitive with many drug classes. lomitapide is approved in the u.s., the eu, mexico, canada, norway and iceland as an adjunct to a low-fat diet and other lipid-lowering treatments to reduce ldl-c in adult hofh patients. as a treatment for hofh, juxtapid competes in the u.s. with kynamro, which is being commercialized by genzyme, a sanofi company, under a collaboration with isis pharmaceuticals inc. (“isis”). kynamro is an antisense apolipoprotein b-100 inhibitor which is taken as a weekly subcutaneous injection. in the eu, the chmp recommended against approval of kynamro. if isis and genzyme obtain marketing approval of kynamro for the treatment of patients with hofh in any country prior to us, they could obtain a competitive advantage associated with being the first to market. we believe that lomitapide will face additional competition for the treatment of hofh. although there are no other mtp-i compounds currently approved by the fda for the treatment of hyperlipidemia, there may be other mtp-i compounds in development. we are aware of other pharmaceutical companies that are developing product candidates that may compete with lomitapide in the treatment of hofh, including regeneron, in collaboration with sanofi, roche holding ag, pfizer, amgen, and alnylam pharmaceuticals, inc., in collaboration with the medicines company, all of which are developing molecules that attempt to mimic the impact observed in patients with defects in their pcsk9 gene. such patients have lower ldl-c levels and an observed reduction in cardiovascular events, and some believe that medicines that duplicate this behavior may effectively reduce ldl-c levels with a similar benefit. some hofh patients who might otherwise be candidates for treatment with lomitapide are committed to, or candidates for, clinical studies of anti-pcsk9 antibodies or may be prescribed an anti-pcsk9 antibody once approved. based upon the status of ongoing phase 3 clinical programs, we believe one or more pcsk-9 products could receive approval as early as 2015. this may make it more difficult for us to generate revenues and achieve profitability. in addition, in the eu, patients with hofh who are unable to reach their recommended target ldl-c levels on conventionally used drug therapies are commonly treated using ldl apheresis, in which cholesterol is removed from the body through mechanical filtration. although levels of ldl-c are reduced acutely using apheresis, there is a rapid rebound. because apheresis provides only temporary reductions in ldl-c levels, it must be repeated frequently, typically one or two times per month. the widespread use and availability of apheresis as a treatment for hofh in the eu, combined with the lower cost of apheresis as compared to lojuxta, may make it more difficult for us to obtain commercially acceptable pricing and reimbursement approvals for lomitapide in the key markets of the eu and, even where commercially acceptable approvals are obtained, may limit the use of lojuxta as a treatment for hofh patients. we may also face future competition from companies selling generic alternatives of lomitapide in countries where we do not have patent coverage, orphan drug status or another form of data or marketing exclusivity or where patent coverage or data or marketing exclusivity has expired or may, in the future, be challenged.   44 table of contents many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do, and significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of drug candidates, obtaining fda and other regulatory approvals of products and the commercialization of those products. accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we may be in obtaining marketing approvals for drugs and achieving and maintaining widespread market acceptance. our competitors’ drugs may be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than any drug we may commercialize, and may render lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing the product. we anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs enter the market and advanced technologies become available. finally, the development of new treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could render lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop non-competitive or obsolete. we may face resistance from certain private, government and other third-party payers given the price we charge for juxtapid in the u.s., and expect to charge for lomitapide in the eu and in other countries in which lomitapide is or may be approved. it will be difficult for us to profitably sell lomitapide if reimbursement for the product is limited or delayed. market acceptance and sales of lomitapide will continue to depend on coverage and reimbursement policies, and may be affected by healthcare reform measures. government authorities and third-party payers, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. a primary trend in the u.s. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. government authorities and these third-party payers have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and limiting the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. given that hofh is a rare disease with a small patient population, we have set a price for juxtapid in the u.s. that is significantly higher than that of most pharmaceuticals in order to generate enough revenue to fund our operating costs. certain payers in the u.s. may resist providing adequate coverage and reimbursement for juxtapid. based on our experience to date, genotyping has not typically been required in the u.s. to determine a diagnosis of hofh for reimbursement purposes, and payers have not typically been making reimbursement decisions based on the price differential between juxtapid and kynamro, although, in each case, there have been some exceptions. a few payers in the u.s. have, however, imposed requirements, conditions or limitations as conditions to coverage and reimbursement for juxtapid, and more payers may decide to do so in the future. in the eu, mexico, canada and other countries outside the u.s. where lomitapide is or may be approved, we are seeking or expect to seek a price that, like the u.s. price, is at a level that is significantly higher than that of most pharmaceuticals, and which reflects the rare nature of hofh. there is no assurance that government agencies in such countries that are responsible for reimbursement of healthcare costs or other third-party payers in such countries will agree to provide coverage for lomitapide at the prices we propose, or at all. in the eu, and in certain other countries outside the u.s., the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved by governmental authorities before it may be lawfully sold. the requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. the eu member states are free to restrict the range of medicinal products for which the national health insurance systems provide reimbursement, and to control the prices and/or reimbursement levels of medicinal products for human use. an eu member state may approve a specific price or level of reimbursement for the medicinal product, or alternatively adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company responsible for placing the medicinal product on the market, including volume-based arrangements, caps, reference pricing mechanisms, and the use of other therapies prior to the use of a medicinal product. in some countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take nine to 15 months or longer after the receipt of marketing authorization. to obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies, which may not be possible for us to do. while we have begun the process of obtaining pricing and reimbursement approval in key eu member states, mexico and canada, we have not yet received pricing or   45 table of contents reimbursement approval in any of those countries, and there is no assurance that we will receive such approval or, if we do, that the price and terms will be acceptable to us. outside the u.s., the ongoing sovereign debt crisis and the macroeconomic climate in the eu and other countries, or local regulations or practices, may adversely affect our ability to set and charge a sufficiently high price to generate adequate revenue in those markets. even if we are successful in obtaining pricing and reimbursement approval for lomitapide in a country, such countries may impose onerous conditions on reimbursement, which may include genotyping or the use of other therapies, such as apheresis, prior to the use of lomitapide. countries outside the u.s. may also require significant discounts or impose price or total expenditure caps. the price of lomitapide in one country may adversely affect the price in other countries. we may elect not to launch lomitapide in any country where it does not make commercial sense to do so given the approved price. in addition, in certain of the eu member states, products that have orphan drug status may be exempted or waived from having to provide certain clinical, cost-effectiveness and other economic data in connection with their filings for pricing/reimbursement approval. as noted above, lojuxta was not granted orphan drug status by the ema and it may not be eligible for such automatic exemptions or waivers. therefore, we may not be able to provide all of the data required to obtain pricing/reimbursement approvals in certain eu member states, which could result in delays of pricing/reimbursement approvals for lojuxta, lojuxta not obtaining pricing/reimbursement approval at all, or lojuxta obtaining approvals at less than acceptable levels or with significant restrictions on use or reimbursement. we may also face pricing and reimbursement pressure in the u.s., eu and other countries as a result of prices charged for competitive products or therapies. we are making lomitapide available in brazil and certain other countries that allow use of a drug, on a named patient basis or under a compassionate use or other type of so-called expanded access program, before marketing approval has been obtained in such country. we are seeking reimbursement for lomitapide for authorized pre-approval uses in some of these countries to the extent permitted by applicable law and local regulatory authorities. in other countries or under certain circumstances, we are providing lomitapide free of charge for permitted pre-approval uses. in certain countries where we seek reimbursement for the product during the pre-approval phase, we are able to establish the price for lomitapide, while in other countries we need to negotiate the price. such negotiations may not result in a price acceptable to us, in which case we may elect to not pursue distribution of lomitapide in such country prior to approval or we may curtail distribution. in addition, the price we are able to charge for named patient sales of lomitapide in brazil and other countries prior to approval may be significantly higher than the price that is approved by governmental authorities after approval. if we fail to successfully secure and maintain reimbursement coverage for lomitapide or are significantly delayed in doing so or if onerous conditions are imposed by private payers, government authorities or other third-party payers on such reimbursement, we will have difficulty achieving or maintaining market acceptance of our products and our business and ability to achieve our financial expectations will be harmed. we support a certain independent patient foundation in the u.s. that assists patients determined by the foundation to be eligible with certain co-payments or co-insurance requirements, and assists certain eligible uninsured or underinsured patients in the u.s. our support of these programs could result in significant costs to us. we do not have control or input into the decisions of these foundations. the amount of reimbursement for juxtapid and the manner in which government and private payers in the u.s. may reimburse for our potential products is uncertain. beginning april 1, 2013, medicare payments for all items and services under part a and b, including drugs and biologicals, and most payments to plans under medicare part d were reduced by 2% under the sequestration (i.e., automatic spending reductions) required by the budget control act of 2011 (“bca”) as amended by the american taxpayer relief act (“atra”). the bca requires sequestration for most federal programs, excluding medicaid, social security, and certain other programs. the bca caps the cuts to medicare payments for items and services and payments to part d plans at 2%. the bipartisan budget act of 2013 extended the 2% reduction to 2023.as long as these cuts remain in effect, they could adversely impact payment for juxtapid.   46 table of contents payers also are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as average sales price (“asp”), average manufacturer price (“amp”) or actual acquisition cost (“aac”). the existing data for reimbursement based on these metrics is relatively limited, although certain states have begun to survey acquisition cost data for the purpose of setting medicaid reimbursement rates. the centers for medicare & medicaid services (“cms”) has made draft national average drug acquisition cost (“nadac”) and draft national average retail price (“narp”) data publicly available on at least a monthly basis. in july 2013, cms suspended publication of draft narp data pending funding decisions, but archived narp files remain available. in november 2013, cms moved to publishing final rather than draft nadac data and has since made updated nadac data publicly available on a weekly basis. it is difficult to project the impact of these evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of providers to furnish juxtapid, and the prices we can command for it and other products we may market. recent legislative changes to the 340b drug pricing program, the medicaid drug rebate program, and the medicare part d prescription drug benefit also could impact our revenues. if reimbursement is not available or available only to limited levels, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to meet our operating costs or to achieve our revenue, cash flow breakeven or profitability goals in the timeframe that we expect, or at all. the fda, the eu member states and other regulatory agencies outside the u.s. actively enforce laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses. if we are found to have promoted off-label uses, we may be subject to significant liability. the fda, the competent authorities of the eu member states and other regulatory agencies outside the u.s. strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription drug products. in particular, a drug product may not be promoted prior to approval or for uses that are not approved by the fda, the ec, the competent authorities of the eu member states or such other regulatory agencies as reflected in the product’s approved prescribing information. in the u.s., promotion of drug products for unapproved (or off-label) uses may result in enforcement letters, inquiries and investigations, and civil and criminal sanctions by the fda. promotion of drug products for off-label uses in the u.s. can also result in false claims litigation under federal and state statutes, which can lead to consent decrees, civil money penalties, restitution, criminal fines and imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. in late 2013, we received a warning letter from the fda alleging that certain statements about juxtapid made by our chief executive officer, marc beer, during two broadcast interviews on the cnbc television show, fast money, promoted a claim that juxtapid has an effect on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and that juxtapid is effective as a monotherapy, which would be considered unapproved uses. we responded promptly to the fda, and are working with the fda’s office of prescription drug promotion (“opdp”) to resolve the concerns raised in the warning letter. we are planning to run a corrective advertisement on cnbc to clarify any misimpressions arising from the interviews. we believe that the corrective advertisement, and the promotional material review we have already conducted, will address the fda’s concerns cited in the warning letter. we also received a subpoena in late 2013 from the u.s. department of justice, represented by the u.s. attorney’s office in boston, massachusetts, requesting documents and other information pertaining to our promotion, marketing, and sale of juxtapid in connection with a government investigation of our practices. we are in the process of responding to the subpoena, and intend to cooperate fully with the investigation. while we intend to vigorously defend ourselves, we may not be able to resolve this matter without incurring significant fines, sanctions, or other consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. even if we can resolve this matter without incurring significant penalties, responding to the subpoena has been, and is expected to continue to be, costly and time-consuming. moreover, this investigation could adversely impact our reputation and the willingness of physicians to prescribe lomitapide for their hofh patients, and may divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.   47 table of contents our relationships with customers and payers in the u.s. will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings. healthcare providers and others have and will continue to play an important role in the recommendation and prescription of lomitapide and any other products for which we obtain marketing approval. our arrangements with third-party payers and customers in the u.s. have and will continue to expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute lomitapide and other products for which we may obtain marketing approval. restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations in the u.s. include the following:     •   the federal healthcare anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, paying, or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward the purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging or recommending for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, by federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid. this statute has been interpreted to apply to, among others, arrangements between pharmaceutical companies, on the one hand, and prescribers, purchasers, formulary managers and organizations that provide financial assistance to patients, on the other. further, the healthcare reform act, among other things, clarified that a person or entity need not have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, the healthcare reform act amended the social security act to provide that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil false claims act. although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common manufacturer business arrangements and activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. we intend to comply with the exemptions and safe harbors whenever possible, but our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability, and may be subject to scrutiny.     •   the federal civil false claims act prohibits any person from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented a false claim for payment of government funds or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to an obligation to pay money to the government or knowingly concealing or knowingly and improperly avoiding, decreasing or concealing an obligation to pay money to the federal government. many pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been investigated and have reached substantial financial settlements with the federal government under the federal anti-kickback statute and the civil false claims act for a variety of alleged marketing activities, including providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; providing consulting fees, grants, free travel, and other benefits to physicians to induce them to prescribe the company’s products; and inflating prices reported to private price publication services, which are used to set drug payment rates under government healthcare programs. companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the marketing of their products for unapproved uses. pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have also been prosecuted on other legal theories of medicare and medicaid fraud.     •   the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act, among other things, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, and also imposes obligations with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information.   48 table of contents   •   as of august 1, 2013, the federal physician payment sunshine act, being implemented as the open payments program, requires certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to submit data to cms, which will then make all of this data publicly available on the cms website. we began tracking applicable payments and transfers of value on august 1, 2013 and must begin reporting aggregate payment data to cms by march 31, 2014. the submission of more detailed data must be completed by august 31, 2014. beginning in 2015, all data will be due annually by march 31. failure to comply with the reporting obligations may result in civil monetary penalties.     •   analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by medicaid or other state programs or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. several states now require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products in those states and to report gifts and payments to individual health care providers in those states. some of these states also prohibit certain marketing-related activities including the provision of gifts, meals, or other items to certain health care providers. in addition, several states require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes. efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will continue to comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations could be costly. it is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. if our operations, including activities conducted by our sales team, are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government-funded healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. if any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business is found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government-funded healthcare programs. in late 2013, we received a subpoena from the u.s. department of justice, represented by the u.s. attorney’s office in boston, massachusetts, requesting documents and other information pertaining to our promotion, marketing, and sale of juxtapid in connection with a government investigation of our practices. we could become subject to other government investigations and related subpoenas. subpoenas are often associated with previously filed qui tam actions, or lawsuits filed under seal under the federal civil false claims act. qui tam actions are brought by private plaintiffs suing on behalf of the federal government for alleged federal civil false claims act violations. we are in the process of responding to the subpoena, and intend to cooperate fully with the investigation. the time and expense associated with responding to subpoenas, and any related qui tam or other actions, may be extensive, and we cannot predict the results of our review of the responsive documents and underlying facts or the results of such actions. while we intend to vigorously defend ourselves, we may not be able to resolve this matter without incurring significant fines, sanctions, or other consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. even if we can resolve this matter without incurring significant penalties, responding to the subpoena has been, and is expected to continue to be, costly and time-consuming. moreover, this investigation could adversely impact our reputation and the willingness of physicians to prescribe lomitapide for their hofh patients and may divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. responding to any other government investigations, defending any claims raised, and any resulting fines, restitution, damages and penalties, settlement payments or administrative actions, as well as any related actions brought by stockholders or other third parties, could also have a material impact on our reputation, business and financial condition and divert the attention of our management from operating our business. the number and complexity of both federal and state laws continues to increase, and additional governmental resources are being added to enforce these laws and to prosecute companies and individuals who are believed to be violating them. in particular, the healthcare reform act includes a number of provisions   49 table of contents aimed at strengthening the government’s ability to pursue anti-kickback and false claims cases against pharmaceutical manufacturers and other healthcare entities, including substantially increased funding for healthcare fraud enforcement activities, enhanced investigative powers, and amendments to the false claims act that make it easier for the government and whistleblowers to pursue cases for alleged kickback and false claim violations. while it is too early to predict what effect these changes will have on our business, we anticipate that government scrutiny of pharmaceutical sales and marketing practices will continue for the foreseeable future and subject us to the risk of government investigations and enforcement actions. responding to a government investigation or enforcement action would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and growth prospects. enacted and future legislation and related implementing regulations may increase the difficulty and cost for us to commercialize lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop, and may affect the prices we are able to obtain for lomitapide. in the u.s., there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that restrict or regulate post-approval activities, and may affect our ability to profitably sell juxtapid or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. we are not sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the fda regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes for juxtapid may be. in addition, increased scrutiny by the u.s. congress of the fda’s approval process may subject us to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements. in the u.s., most outpatient prescription drugs, including juxtapid, may be covered under medicare part d. medicare part d prescription drug plans are authorized to use formularies where they can limit the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class and/or impose differential cost sharing or other utilization management techniques. this places pressure on us to contain and reduce costs. changes to medicare part d that give plans more freedom to limit coverage or manage utilization, and/ or other cost reduction initiatives in the program could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products, and could seriously harm our business. in march 2010, president obama signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010, referred to herein as the “healthcare reform act,” a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. the healthcare reform act made significant changes to the medicaid drug rebate program, including changes to the definition of amp, and contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, in some cases in ways we cannot currently predict. changes that may affect our business in the u.s. include those governing expanded enrollment in federal and private healthcare programs, changes to medicare part d, increased rebates and taxes on pharmaceutical products, expansion of the 340b program, and revised fraud and abuse and enforcement requirements. additional provisions of the healthcare reform act, some of which have already taken effect, may negatively affect our future revenues. for example, the healthcare reform act requires pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription drugs, such as juxtapid, to pay a branded prescription drug fee to the federal government. each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer pays a prorated share of the branded prescription drug fee of $3.0 billion in 2014 (and set to increase in ensuing years), based on the dollar value of its branded prescription drug sales to certain federal programs identified in the law. as part of the healthcare reform act’s provisions closing a coverage gap that currently exists in the medicare part d prescription drug program (commonly known as the “donut hole”), manufacturers are required to provide a 50% discount on branded prescription drugs dispensed to beneficiaries within this donut hole. the healthcare reform act also   50 table of contents made changes to the medicaid drug rebate program, including revising the definition of amp and increasing the minimum rebate from 15.1% to 23.1% of the amp for most innovator products, and from 11% to 13% for non-innovator products. the increased minimum rebate of 23.1% applies to juxtapid. we do not know the full effects that the health care reform act will have on our sales of juxtapid, our business and operations. although it is too early to determine the effect of the health care reform act, the law appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. in 2012, cms issued proposed regulations to implement the changes to the medicaid drug rebate program under the healthcare reform act but has not yet issued final regulations. cms is currently expected to release the final regulations in 2014. moreover, in the future, congress could enact legislation that further increases medicaid drug rebates or other costs and charges associated with participating in the medicaid drug rebate program. the issuance of regulations and coverage expansion by various governmental agencies relating to the medicaid drug rebate program has and will continue to increase our costs and the complexity of compliance, has been and will be time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the healthcare reform act also obligates the health resources and services administration (“hrsa”), the agency which administers the 340b program, to create regulations and processes to improve the integrity of the 340b program and to update the agreement that manufacturers must sign to participate in the 340b program to obligate a manufacturer to offer the 340b price to covered entities if the manufacturer makes the product available to any other purchaser at any price and to report the ceiling prices for its drugs to the government. hrsa is expected to issue a comprehensive proposed regulation in 2014 that will address many aspects of the 340b program. when that regulation is finalized, it could affect our 340b ceiling price calculations and our obligations under the 340b program in ways we cannot anticipate. further, legislation may be introduced that, if passed, would further expand the 340b program to additional covered entities or would require participating manufacturers to agree to provide 340b discounted pricing on drugs used in the inpatient setting. countries outside the u.s. may make changes to their healthcare systems which may in the future affect the revenues we generate from sales of lomitapide. we face extensive regulatory requirements, and lomitapide may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. even after marketing approval, a regulatory authority may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indications, conditions for use, distribution or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for post-marketing surveillance, post-approval studies or clinical trials. because of the risk of liver toxicity, juxtapid is available in the u.s. only through the juxtapid rems program. we must certify all healthcare providers who prescribe juxtapid and the pharmacies that dispense the medicine. the fda has also required that we periodically assess the effectiveness of the juxtapid rems program. in the eu and in the other countries outside the u.s. in which lomitapide is approved, we have adopted a risk management plan to help educate physicians on the safety information for lomitapide and appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients. regulatory authorities have significant post-marketing authority, including, for example, the authority to require labeling changes based on new safety information, and to require post-marketing studies or clinical trials to evaluate serious safety risks related to the use of a drug. as described previously, part of our post-marketing commitment to the fda and ema with respect to lomitapide is to conduct an observational cohort study to generate more data on the long-term safety profile of lomitapide, the patterns of use and compliance and the long-term effectiveness of controlling ldl-c levels. the ema has also required that we conduct a vascular imaging study to determine the impact of lomitapide on vascular endpoints. our post-marketing commitments also include certain drug-drug interactions studies. we expect that the regulatory authorities in certain other countries outside the u.s. and eu where lomitapide is, or may be, approved may impose post-approval obligations, including patient registries, and requirements that may in some countries be more onerous than those imposed by the fda and ema.   51 table of contents in the eu, because we were not able to provide comprehensive clinical data on efficacy and safety under normal conditions of use due to the rarity of the disease, and in light of our commitments to conduct an appropriate risk-mitigation program, lojuxta was approved under exceptional circumstances. this type of marketing authorization will require an annual reassessment of the risk/benefit of lojuxta by the chmp. any changes in known safety concerns for lomitapide or any unknown safety issues that may develop could cause the ec to decline to renew our market authorization for lomitapide in the eu which could affect our ability to achieve our financial goals. we will also be subject to other ongoing regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which lomitapide is approved governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, distribution, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-marketing information, including adverse reactions, and any changes to the approved product, product labeling, or manufacturing process. in addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the fda, the ema and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cgmp, and other regulations. if we, or our drug substance or drug product or the manufacturing facilities for our drug substance or drug product, fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may:     •   issue warning letters or untitled letters;     •   seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines;     •   suspend or withdraw or alter the conditions of our marketing approval;     •   require us to provide corrective information to healthcare practitioners;     •   suspend any ongoing clinical trials;     •   require us to enter into a consent decree, which can include imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance;     •   refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications submitted by us;     •   suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements;     •   seize or detain products, refuse to permit the import or export of products or request that we initiate a product recall; or     •   refuse to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. if we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid drug rebate program or other governmental pricing programs in the u.s., we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. we participate in the medicaid drug rebate program and a number of other federal and state government pricing programs in the u.s., and we may participate in additional government pricing programs in the future. these programs are described in detail in the “business—regulatory matters” section of this form 10-k, and generally require us to pay rebates or provide discounts to government payers in connection with drugs, including juxtapid, dispensed to beneficiaries of these programs. in some cases, such as with the medicaid drug rebate program, the rebates are based on pricing and rebate calculations that we report on a monthly and quarterly basis to the government agencies that administer the programs. the terms, scope and complexity of these government pricing programs change frequently. responding to current and future changes may increase our costs and the complexity of compliance, will be time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.   52 table of contents pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. the calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. for example, the medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to the cms of our amp and best price for the quarter. if we become aware that our reporting for prior quarters was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we will be obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due. such restatements and recalculations would serve to increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the medicaid rebate program. any corrections to our rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. price recalculations also may affect the price that we will be required to charge certain safety net providers under the public health service 340b drug discount program. we are liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data and for overcharging government payers. for example, in addition to retroactive rebates and the potential for 340b program refunds, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false amp or best price information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information. our failure to submit monthly/quarterly amp and best price data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the submission is late beyond the due date. in the event that cms were to terminate our rebate agreement, no federal payments would be available under medicaid or medicare part b for our covered outpatient drugs, such as juxtapid. in addition, if we overcharge the government in connection with our fss contract or under any other government program, we will be required to refund the difference to the government. failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges could result in allegations against us under the federal civil false claims act and other laws and regulations. federal law requires that for a company to be eligible to have its products paid for with federal funds under the medicaid and medicare part b programs as well as to be purchased by certain federal agencies, it also must participate in the department of veterans affairs (“va”) federal supply schedule (“fss”) pricing program. this program is described in detail in the “business—regulatory matters” section of this form 10-k, and generally requires us to charge four federal agencies pricing no higher than the federal ceiling price (“fcp”) for our covered drugs, including juxtapid, when those agencies purchase from an fss contract or depot contract. the fcp is calculated based on the “non-federal average manufacturer price,” (“non-famp”), which manufacturers are required to report on a quarterly and annual basis to the va. if a company misstates non-famps or fcps it must restate these figures. pursuant to the vhca, knowing provision of false information in connection with a non-famp filing can subject a manufacturer to penalties of $100,000 for each item of false information. in addition, pursuant to regulations issued by the dod defense health agency (“dha”) to implement section 703 of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2008, we expect that dod will claim entitlement to rebates on covered drug prescriptions dispensed to tricare beneficiaries by tricare network retail pharmacies. the formula for determining the rebate is established in the regulations and our section 703 agreement and is based on the difference between annual non-famp and the fcp. if we overcharge the government in connection with va fss pricing program or tricare retail pharmacy program, whether due to a misstated fcp or otherwise, we are required to refund the difference to the government. failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in allegations against us under the false claims act and other laws and regulations. unexpected refunds to the u.s. government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.   53 table of contents commercialization of lomitapide requires third-party relationships, and our dependence on these relationships may have an adverse effect on our business. lomitapide is our first marketed product. as a result, we have not demonstrated the same ability to commercialize a product as companies that have previously obtained marketing approval for drug candidates and commercially launched drugs. to maximize the commercial potential of juxtapid, we plan to utilize distributors and other third parties to help distribute and, in some cases, to commercialize lomitapide. we currently have a contract with a single specialty pharmacy distributor in the u.s. and a single logistics provider in the eu. any performance failure or inability or refusal to perform on the part of our specialty pharmacy distributor in the u.s. or our logistic provider in the eu could impair our marketing and sales of lomitapide. in those countries outside the u.s. where we plan to use our own personnel to commercialize lomitapide, we have, or plan to have, agreements with local distributors to provide logistics and distribution support. in those geographic locations in which we are using third parties to commercialize our product, we will be reliant on such strategic partners to generate revenue on our behalf. if we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing or distribution services, our product revenues or the profitability of these product revenues to us are likely to be lower than if we were to market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. in addition, we may not be successful in entering into arrangements with third parties to sell and market our products or in doing so on terms that are favorable to us. we likely will have little control over such third parties, and any of them may fail to devote the necessary resources and attention to sell and market our products effectively. if we do not establish sales and marketing capabilities successfully, either on our own or in collaboration with third parties, we will not be successful in commercializing our products. failures or delays in the commencement or completion of our planned clinical testing of lomitapide in japanese hofh patients and in pediatric hofh patients or of any other clinical trials we plan to conduct could result in increased costs to us and delay, prevent or limit our ability to generate revenue with respect to the relevant product candidate or new indication. the commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed or prevented for a number of reasons, including:     •   difficulties obtaining regulatory clearance to commence a clinical trial or complying with conditions imposed by a regulatory authority regarding the scope or term of a clinical trial;     •   delays in reaching or failing to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations (“cros”) and trial sites;     •   insufficient or inadequate supply or quality of a product candidate or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials, or other manufacturing issues;     •   difficulties obtaining institutional review board (“irb”) approval or ethics committee’s positive opinion to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site;     •   challenges recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including the size and nature of a patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the nature of trial protocol, the availability of approved treatments for the relevant disease and the competition from other clinical trial programs for similar indications;     •   severe or unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by patients in a clinical trial; and     •   difficulties retaining patients who have enrolled in a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to the rigors of the trials, lack of efficacy, side effects or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up. clinical trials may also be delayed or terminated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results or the results of other clinical, preclinical or nonclinical studies. in addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or   54 table of contents terminated by us, the fda, the competent authorities of the eu member states, the irbs or the ethics committees at the sites, or a data safety monitoring board overseeing the clinical trial at issue, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:     •   failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols;     •   inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the fda or other regulatory authorities;     •   unforeseen safety issues or lack of effectiveness; and     •   lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. positive results in preclinical studies and earlier clinical trials of our product candidates may not be replicated in later clinical trials, which could result in development delay or a failure to obtain marketing approval or affect market acceptance. positive results in preclinical or clinical studies of lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop may not be predictive of similar results in humans during further clinical trials. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. accordingly, there is, for example, a possibility that our planned clinical studies of lomitapide in pediatric hofh patients or our clinical program to support approval of lomitapide in japan in adult patients with hofh may generate results that are not consistent with the results of our phase 3 clinical study or other relevant studies. the results of such clinical trials may not be sufficient to gain approval of lomitapide for adult hofh patients in japan or for pediatric hofh patients. our preclinical studies or clinical trials for any future product candidate may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. moreover, preclinical and clinical data can be susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain fda or other regulatory approval for their products. changes in regulatory requirements and guidance or unanticipated events during our clinical trials may occur, as a result of which we may need to amend clinical trial protocols. amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to the irbs, ethics committees or the competent authorities of the eu member states for review and approval, which may impact the cost, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. if we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our previous clinical trials of lomitapide or generate results that differ from our clinical trial results the commercial prospects for lomitapide may be harmed. if we fail to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity for lomitapide in any country where exclusivity is available, we will have to rely on our data and marketing exclusivity, if any, and on our intellectual property rights, to the extent there is coverage in such country, which may reduce the length of time that we can prevent competitors from selling generic versions of lomitapide. we have obtained orphan drug exclusivity for juxtapid in the u.s. for the treatment of hofh. under the orphan drug act, the fda may designate a product as an orphan drug if it is a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition, defined, in part, as a patient population of fewer than 200,000 in the u.s. in the u.s., the company that first obtains fda approval for a designated orphan drug for the specified rare disease or condition receives orphan drug marketing exclusivity for that drug for a period of seven years. this orphan drug exclusivity prevents the fda from approving another application for the “same drug” for the same orphan indication during the exclusivity period, except in very limited circumstances. for small molecule drugs, the fda defines “same drug” as a drug that contains the same active moiety and is intended for the same use as the drug in question. a designated orphan drug may not receive orphan drug exclusivity if it is approved for a use that is broader than the indication for which it received orphan designation. in addition, orphan drug exclusive marketing rights in the u.s. may be lost if the fda later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition.   55 table of contents the ema grants orphan drug designation to promote the development of products that may offer therapeutic benefits for life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions affecting not more than five in 10,000 people in the eu. orphan drug designation from the ema provides ten years of marketing exclusivity following drug approval, subject to reduction to six years if the designation criteria are no longer met. despite the prevalence rate, we do not have orphan drug exclusivity for lomitapide in the treatment of hofh in the eu since the ema views the relevant condition, for orphan drug purposes, to include hofh and hefh. our failure to obtain orphan drug designation for lomitapide for the treatment of hofh in the eu means that we will not have the benefit of the orphan drug market exclusivity for this indication in the eu, and, as a result, will need to rely on our intellectual property rights and other exclusivity provisions. lomitapide qualifies as an innovative medicinal product in the eu. innovative medicinal products authorized in the eu on the basis of a full marketing authorization application (as opposed to an application for marketing authorization that relies on data in the marketing authorization dossier for another, previously approved medicinal product) are entitled to eight years’ data exclusivity. during this period, applicants for approval of generics of these innovative products cannot rely on data contained in the marketing authorization dossier submitted for the innovative medicinal product. innovative medicinal products are also entitled to ten years’ market exclusivity, which runs concurrently with the data exclusivity period. during this ten-year period no generic medicinal product can be placed on the eu market. the ten-year period of market exclusivity can be extended to a maximum of eleven years if, during the first eight years of those ten years, the marketing authorization holder for the innovative product obtains an authorization for one or more new therapeutic indications which, during the scientific evaluation prior to their authorization, are held to bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. if we do not obtain extended patent protection and data exclusivity for our product candidates, our business may be materially harmed. there are many countries, including some key markets for lomitapide, in which we do not have intellectual property coverage, and where neither orphan drug exclusivity nor data and marketing exclusivity is available. even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a product, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the product from competition because different drugs can be approved for the same condition. in the u.s., even after an orphan drug is approved, the fda can subsequently approve the same drug for the same condition if the fda concludes that the later drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. recent federal legislation and actions by state and local governments may permit re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the u.s., including foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the u.s. similarly, purchasers in the eu are permitted to purchase lomitapide in one eu member state and import it into another eu member state where the price may be higher. these practices could materially adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition. the medicare prescription drug, improvement and modernization act contains provisions that may change importation laws and expand pharmacists’ and wholesalers’ ability to import lower priced versions of an approved drug and competing products from canada, where there are government price controls. these changes to u.s. importation laws will not take effect unless and until the secretary of health and human services certifies that the changes will pose no additional risk to the public’s health and safety, and may result in a significant reduction in the cost of products to consumers. while the secretary of health and human services has not yet announced any plans to make this required certification, we may ultimately face the risk that a distributor or other purchaser of lomitapide in the u.s. will be permitted to import lower priced product from a country outside the u.s. that places price controls on pharmaceutical products. this risk may be particularly applicable to a drug such as juxtapid that is formulated for oral delivery and currently commands a premium price. some states and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, other states and local governments may launch importation efforts. in the eu, a purchaser cannot be restricted from purchasing a medicine in one eu member state and importing the product into another eu member state in which is it also subject to marketing authorization, which is called parallel importing. as a result, a purchaser in one eu member state may seek to import lomitapide from another eu country where lomitapide is sold at a lower price.   56 table of contents the re-importation of lomitapide into the u.s. market from a foreign market and the parallel importation of lomitapide among countries of the eu could negatively impact our revenue and anticipated profitability, possibly materially. we face potential product liability exposure, and, if claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability. the use of lomitapide or any other product candidate in clinical trials and the sale of lomitapide or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our product and product candidates. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. in addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:     •   decreased demand for lomitapide or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval;     •   impairment of our business reputation and exposure to adverse publicity;     •   increased warnings on product labels;     •   withdrawal of clinical trial participants;     •   costs as a result of related litigation;     •   distraction of management’s attention from our primary business;     •   substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants;     •   loss of revenue; and     •   the inability to successfully commercialize lomitapide or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. we have obtained product liability insurance coverage for both our clinical trials and our commercial exposures with a $20.0 million annual aggregate coverage limit. however, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. on occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects or warnings found to be inadequate. the cost of any product liability litigation or other proceedings, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. a product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if the claim is successful and judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. a variety of risks associated with our international business operations could materially adversely affect our business. in each country outside the u.s. in which lomitapide is approved, or where we are making lomitapide available on a named patient or compassionate use basis before it has obtained marketing approval, we are subject to additional risks related to entering into international business operations, including:     •   differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries;     •   pricing that has a negative impact on our global pricing strategy;     •   potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights;     •   the potential for parallel importing;   57 table of contents   •   unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;     •   economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;     •   compliance with foreign or u.s. laws, rules and regulations, including data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import, export and trade restrictions, and anti-bribery/anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules;     •   foreign taxes;     •   foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenue, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country;     •   workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the u.s.;     •   production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad;     •   dependence upon third parties to perform distribution, quality control testing, collections and other aspects of the distribution, supply chain and commercialization of our products that are required to be performed in order to conduct such activities in international markets; and     •   business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism, or natural disasters, including earthquakes, volcanoes, typhoons, floods, hurricanes and fires. our activities outside the u.s. or those of our employees, licensees, distributors, manufacturers, cros, or other third parties who act on our behalf or with whom we do business could subject us to investigation or prosecution under such foreign or u.s. laws. we are aware, for example, that governmental authorities in são paulo, brazil are conducting an investigation to determine whether two of our employees have violated anti-corruption laws in connection with prescriptions of lomitapide written in brazil. we do not believe that a violation of any brazilian anti-corruption laws has occurred, and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in the event brazilian authorities ultimately decide to bring action against us or our employees. if our activities in brazil or in any other country outside the u.s. are found as part of this or any other investigation to be in violation of any laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, and fines. in addition with respect to the investigation in brazil, we may experience a reluctance of physicians to prescribe juxtapid, or a delay or suspension in the government’s ordering process, while the investigation is ongoing, or if our activities are found to have violated applicable laws. these and other risks of international business relationships may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or sustain profitable operations. risks related to our intellectual property if our patent position does not adequately protect our product and product candidates, others could compete against us more directly, which would harm our business, possibly materially. our lomitapide patent portfolio consists of five issued u.s. patents and issued patents in europe, canada, israel, australia, new zealand and japan and pending applications in the u.s., australia, japan, canada, india and south korea, all of which have been licensed to us in a specific field. the u.s. patent covering the composition of matter of lomitapide is scheduled to expire in 2015, but we have filed an application for patent term extension for this patent. the non-u.s. patents directed to the composition of matter of lomitapide issued in certain jurisdictions of the eu, canada, israel and japan are scheduled to expire in 2016. our two method of use patents in the u.s., covering certain dosing regimens for lomitapide, expire in 2027 and 2025, respectively, and our european patent office (“epo”) methods of use patent expires in 2025. the epo method of use patent may be eligible for up to three years of supplemental protection in certain epo countries, and we are seeking such protection in the countries in which lojuxta is approved, on a country-by-country basis. an opposition has been filed by a third party with respect to the epo method of use patent. our commercial success with respect to   58 table of contents lomitapide will depend significantly on our ability to protect our existing patent position with respect to lomitapide as well as our ability to obtain and maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for our technologies, product candidates and any future products in the u.s. and other countries. if we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and ability to achieve profitability. our ability to use the patents and patent applications licensed to us to protect our business will also depend on our ability to comply with the terms of the applicable licenses and other agreements. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s., and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these countries. there are many countries, including some key markets for lomitapide, in which we do not have intellectual property coverage, and where neither orphan drug exclusivity nor data and marketing exclusivity is available. the patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies, product candidates and any future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that:     •   we will be able to successfully commercialize our product before some or all of our relevant patents expire, or in countries where we do not have patent protection;     •   we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications;     •   we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions;     •   others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;     •   any of our pending patent applications or those we have licensed will result in issued patents;     •   any of our patents or those we have licensed will be valid or enforceable;     •   any patents issued to us or our licensors and collaborators will provide a basis for any additional commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties;     •   we will develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable; or     •   the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business. if we do not obtain protection under the hatch-waxman act and similar foreign legislation by extending the patent terms and obtaining regulatory exclusivity for our product or product candidates, our business may be materially harmed. the hatch-waxman act established a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the fda regulatory review process. our u.s. composition of matter patent for lomitapide is scheduled to expire in 2015, and we have filed an application for patent term extension for this patent. we are also seeking three years of supplemental protection for our epo method of use patent in certain epo countries in which lojuxta is approved. however, we may not be granted an extension in a particular country if we, for example, fail to apply within applicable deadlines, fail to apply prior to expiration of relevant patents or otherwise fail to satisfy applicable requirements. moreover, the applicable time period of the extension or the scope of patent protection afforded could be less than we request. if we are unable to obtain   59 table of contents patent term extension or restoration of the term of any such extension is less than we request, our competitors, including manufacturers of generic alternatives, may obtain approval of competing products following our patent expiration, and our revenue could be reduced, possibly materially. in addition, the fda has classified lomitapide as a new chemical entity (“nce”) in the u.s. and it is therefore eligible for data exclusivity under the hatch-waxman act. a drug can be classified as a nce if the fda has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety. an nce that is granted marketing approval may, even in the absence of patent protection, be eligible for five years of data exclusivity in the u.s. following marketing approval. this data exclusivity precludes submission of 505(b)(2) applications or abbreviated new drug applications (“anda”) that reference the nce application for four years if certain patents covering the nce or its method of use expire or are challenged by a generic applicant. innovative medicinal products authorized in the eu on the basis of a full marketing authorization application (as opposed to an application for marketing authorization that relies on data in the marketing authorization dossier for another, previously approved medicinal product) are entitled to eight years’ data exclusivity. during this period, applicants for approval of generics of these innovative products cannot rely on data contained in the marketing authorization dossier submitted for the innovative medicinal product. innovative medicinal products are also entitled to ten years’ market exclusivity. during this ten-year period no generic medicinal product can be placed on the eu market. the ten-year period of market exclusivity can be extended to a maximum of 11 years if, during the first eight years of those ten years, the marketing authorization holder for the innovative product obtains an authorization for one or more new therapeutic indications which, during the scientific evaluation prior to their authorization, are held to bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. if we are not able to gain or exploit the period of data exclusivity, we may face significant competitive threats to our commercialization of these compounds from other manufacturers, including the manufacturers of generic alternatives. further, even if our compounds are considered to be nces and we are able to gain the period of data exclusivity, another company nevertheless could also market another version of the drug if such company submits a full nda or a full application for marketing authorization in the eu with a complete human clinical trial program and obtains marketing approval of its product. if we are not able to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information, the value of our technology, product and any product candidates could be significantly diminished. we may rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. however, trade secrets are difficult to protect. we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. these agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. in addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. for example, the fda and the ema, currently are considering whether to make additional information publicly available on a routine basis, including information that we may consider to be trade secrets or other proprietary information, and it is not clear at the present time how the fda’s and ema’s disclosure policies may change in the future, if at all. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. we may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may prevent or delay our product development efforts and stop us from commercializing or increase the costs of commercializing our product and any product candidates. our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. there could be issued patents of which we are not aware that our products or product candidates infringe. there also could be patents that we believe we do not infringe, but that we may ultimately be found to infringe. moreover, patent applications are in some cases maintained in secrecy until patents are issued. the publication of   60 table of contents discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications were filed. because patents can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products or product candidates infringe. for example, pending applications may exist that provide support or can be amended to provide support for a claim that results in an issued patent that our product infringes. the pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. other parties may obtain patents in the future and allege that our products or product candidates or the use of our technologies infringes these patent claims or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. likewise, third parties may challenge or infringe upon our existing or future patents. proceedings involving our patents or patent applications or those of others could result in adverse decisions regarding:     •   the patentability of our inventions relating to our product or any product candidates; and     •   the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents relating to our product or any product candidates. even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and divert management’s time and attention in pursuing these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. if we are unable to avoid infringing the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. patent litigation is costly and time consuming. we may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. in addition, if we do not obtain a license, develop or obtain non-infringing technology, fail to defend an infringement action successfully or have infringed patents declared invalid, we may:     •   incur substantial monetary damages;     •   encounter significant delays in bringing our product candidates to market; and     •   be precluded from manufacturing or selling our product candidates. in such event, our business could be adversely affected, possibly materially. if we fail to comply with our obligations in our license agreements for our product candidates, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. our existing license agreement with the trustees of the university of pennsylvania (“upenn”) imposes, and we expect any future license agreements that we enter into will impose, various diligence, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. in addition, our license agreement with upenn limits the field of use for lomitapide as a monotherapy or in combination with other dyslipidemic therapies for treatment of patients with hofh, or for the treatment of patients with severe hypercholesterolemia unable to come within 15% of the national cholesterol education program (“ncep”) ldl-c goal on maximal tolerated oral therapy, as determined by the patient’s prescribing physician, or with severe combined hyperlipidemia unable to come within 15% of the ncep non-hdl-c goal on maximal tolerated oral therapy, as determined by the patient’s prescribing physician, or with severe hypertriglyceridemia unable to reduce triglycerides (“tg”) levels to less than 1,000 mg/dl on maximal tolerated therapy. if we fail to comply with the obligations and restrictions under our license agreements, including the limited field of use under our license agreement with upenn, the applicable licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which case we might not be able to market any product that is covered by the licensed patents. any breach or termination of our license agreement with upenn would have a particularly significant adverse effect on our business because of our reliance on the commercial success of lomitapide. although we   61 table of contents intend to comply with the restrictions on field of use in our license agreement with upenn by seeking product labels for lomitapide that are consistent with the license field, we may still be subject to the risk of breaching the license agreement if we are deemed to be promoting or marketing lomitapide for an indication not covered by any product label that we are able to obtain. in addition, because this restriction on the field of use limits the indications for which we can develop lomitapide, the commercial potential of lomitapide may not be as great as without this restriction. risks related to our dependence on third parties if we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully commercialize lomitapide. we are marketing and selling lomitapide for hofh directly in the u.s. using our own marketing and sales resources. we are, or plan to, market and sell lomitapide directly, using our own marketing and sales resources, in certain key countries in the eu and in several other countries in which lomitapide is, or may be, approved where it makes business sense to do so. we use, and plan to use, third parties to provide warehousing, shipping, third-party logistics, invoicing, collections and other distribution services on our behalf in those countries. we have entered into, or may selectively seek to establish, distribution and similar forms of arrangements to reach patients with hofh in certain geographies that we do not believe we can cost-effectively address with our own sales and marketing capabilities. if we are unable to establish, and maintain, the capabilities to sell, market and distribute lomitapide, either through our own capabilities or through arrangements with others, or if we are unable to enter into distribution agreements in those countries where we do not believe we can cost-effectively address with our own sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to successfully sell lomitapide. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish and maintain our own capabilities or to enter into and maintain any distribution agreements with third-parties on acceptable terms, if at all. additionally, we currently have a contract with a single specialty pharmacy distributor in the u.s., a single logistics provider in the eu and a single distributor in brazil. while we believe that we would be able to replace any distributor or service provider, any performance failure or inability or refusal to perform on the part of our specialty pharmacy distributor in the u.s., or our logistics provider in the eu or single distributor in brazil could, for a period of time, impair our marketing and sales of lomitapide. furthermore, our expenses associated with building up and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities around the world may be disproportionate compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of lomitapide. we cannot guarantee that our success in commercializing lomitapide will meet our expectations. we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and to perform related services, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such clinical trials. we may become involved in commercial disputes with these parties. we do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials, and we rely on third parties such as cros, medical institutions, academic institutions, and clinical investigators to perform this function. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. however, if we sponsor clinical trials, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. moreover, the fda and the competent authorities in the eu and japan require us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. furthermore, these third parties may have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they provide is compromised due to the failure to adhere to regulatory requirements or our clinical trial protocols, or for other reasons, our development programs may be extended, delayed or terminated, additional marketing approvals for lomitapide or   62 table of contents any other product candidate may be delayed or denied in the targeted indication or jurisdiction, and we may be delayed or precluded in our efforts to successfully commercialize lomitapide or any other product candidate for targeted indications or in the targeted jurisdiction. in addition, we may from time to time become involved in commercial disputes with these third parties, for example regarding the quality of the services provided by these third parties or our ultimate liability to pay for services they purported to provide, or the value of such services. due to our reliance on third-party service providers, we may experience commercial disputes such as this in the future. in some cases, we may be required to pay for work that was not performed to our specifications or not utilized by us, and these obligations may be material. we do not have drug research or discovery capabilities, and will need to acquire or license existing drug compounds from third parties to expand our product candidate pipeline. certain intellectual property related to lomitapide has been licensed to us by upenn. we currently have no drug research or discovery capabilities. accordingly, if we are to expand our product candidate pipeline, we will need to acquire or license existing compounds from third parties. we will face significant competition in seeking to acquire or license promising drug compounds. many of our competitors for such promising compounds may have significantly greater financial resources and more extensive experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products, and thus, may be a more attractive option to a potential licensor than us. in addition, our rights under upenn to intellectual property with respect to lomitapide are limited to specified patient populations, such as patients with hofh, severe hypercholesterolemia or severe hypertriglyceridemia. accordingly, if we wished to expand the development of lomitapide to address other indications, we would need to expand our license agreement with upenn and potentially acquire rights from bristol-myers squibb company (“bms”). if we are unable to acquire or license additional promising drug compounds or expand our rights to lomitapide should we wish to do so, we will not be able to expand our product candidate pipeline, which may adversely impact our future profitability or growth prospects. risks related to employee matters and managing growth our future success depends on our ability to hire and retain our key executives and to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. we are highly dependent upon the principal members of our executive, commercial, medical, and development teams. we have entered into employment agreements with certain members of our executive, commercial, medical and development teams, but any employee may terminate his or her employment with us at any time. we do not maintain “key man” life insurance for any of our employees. the loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our development and commercialization objectives. we expect to continue hiring qualified personnel. recruiting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. we may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. in addition, we need to continue to establish and maintain effective disclosure and financial controls, particularly as our business grows and continues to expand internationally. failure to maintain adequate controls could impact the quality and integrity of our financial statements and cause us reputational harm. in addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific, manufacturing, clinical, regulatory, pharmacovigilance and sales and marketing advisors, to assist us in formulating our development, manufacturing and commercialization strategy. our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us.   63 table of contents we will need to grow our organization, and we may encounter difficulties in managing this growth, which could disrupt our operations. we currently have approximately 217 employees, and we expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations. to manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. our management may need to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day activities, and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel, which may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining employees. the physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs, and may divert financial resources from other projects. if our management is unable to effectively manage our expected growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our ability to generate or increase our revenue could be reduced and we may not be able to implement our business strategy. our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize lomitapide successfully, and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth. risks related to our financial position and capital requirements we have incurred significant operating losses since our inception, and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the near future. we have a limited operating history. to date, we have primarily focused on developing and commercializing lomitapide. we have funded our operations to date primarily through proceeds from our initial public offering and the proceeds from our june 2011, june 2012 and january 2013 public offerings, revenues from juxtapid, proceeds from our long-term debt and our private placement of convertible preferred stock. we have incurred losses in each year since our inception in february 2005. as of december 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $256.1 million. substantially all of our operating losses resulted from costs incurred in connection with our development programs and from selling, general and administrative costs associated with our operations. the losses we have incurred to date, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. we expect our expenses to substantially increase in the near-term as a result of continued spending on commercial launch of lomitapide in the u.s., and in the key countries in which lomitapide is currently approved, or may be approved in the future, and expected distribution of lomitapide in brazil and certain other countries as part of named patient supply or compassionate use; hiring of additional key personnel in the u.s., europe and other countries; a clinical development program to support a potential application for marketing approval of lomitapide in japan in adult patients with hofh; a planned clinical study of lomitapide in the treatment of pediatric patients with hofh; the conduct of our observational cohort study and other post-marketing commitments to the fda and ema; the conduct of any post marketing commitments imposed by regulatory authorities in countries outside the u.s. and eu where lomitapide is or may be approved; and other possible clinical development activities. we expect to incur significant sales, marketing, and outsourced manufacturing expenses, as well as continued research and development expenses. in addition, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, additional costs associated with operating as a public company and in connection with ongoing government investigations and the securities class action lawsuit, as described in detail in part 1, item 3—“legal proceedings.” as a result, we expect to continue to incur operating losses at least for part of 2014 and potentially for a longer period. because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict with certainty the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all.   64 table of contents we have not generated significant revenue from lomitapide or any other product, and may never be profitable. our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue. we do not have a long history of generating revenue from any product including lomitapide, our only product. our ability to generate significant revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to:     •   effectively market, sell and distribute lomitapide in the u.s.;     •   continue to have named patient sales of lomitapide in brazil and other key countries where such sales can occur as a result of the fda approval or of the marketing authorization granted by the ec for lomitapide in the eu;     •   obtain timely pricing and reimbursement approval of lomitapide in the key countries outside the u.s. where lomitapide is approved at acceptable prices and without onerous restrictions or caps, and to effectively launch lomitapide in the those countries;     •   obtain timely approval of lomitapide in other key international markets as a treatment for patients with hofh without onerous restrictions or limitations in the resulting label, and successfully obtain timely pricing approval for lomitapide in such markets at acceptable prices;     •   obtain and maintain market acceptance by patients, physicians and payors for lomitapide as a treatment for hofh; and minimize the number of patients who discontinue lomitapide treatment due to tolerability issues, including through patient support programs, to the extent permitted in a particular country;     •   effectively estimate the size of the total addressable market; and     •   maintain reimbursement policies for lomitapide in the u.s. that do not impose significant restrictions on reimbursement. lomitapide may not gain or maintain long-term market acceptance or achieve or maintain commercial success. in addition, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing lomitapide and meeting our post-marketing commitments, and in connection with our on-going clinical efforts related to lomitapide. we may not achieve profitability. if we are unable to continue to generate significant product revenue, we will not become profitable, and may be unable to continue operations without additional funding. we may need substantial additional capital in the future. if additional capital is not available, we will have to delay, reduce or cease operations. we may, in the future, need to raise additional capital to fund our operations. our future capital requirements may be substantial and will depend on many factors including:     •   the level of physician, patient and payer acceptance of lomitapide;     •   the success of our commercialization efforts and the level of revenues we generate from sales of juxtapid in the u.s.;     •   the level of revenue we receive from named patient sales of lomitapide in brazil and other key countries where a mechanism exists to sell the product on a pre-approval basis in such country based on u.s. or eu approval;     •   our ability to obtain pricing and reimbursement approval of lomitapide in the key countries in which lomitapide is approved at acceptable prices, and without significant restrictions or caps or other cost containment measures;     •   the cost of continuing to build and maintain the sales and marketing capabilities necessary for the commercial launch of lomitapide as a treatment for hofh in the u.s. and the eu and certain other key international markets, if approved;   65 table of contents   •   the timing and cost of an anticipated clinical trial to evaluate lomitapide for treatment of pediatric patients with hofh;     •   the timing and cost of our clinical development program of lomitapide in hofh in japanese patients;     •   the cost of filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims;     •   the costs of our manufacturing-related activities and the other costs of commercializing lomitapide;     •   the costs associated with ongoing government investigations and lawsuits, including any damages, settlement amounts, fines or other payments that may result if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to defend ourselves;     •   the levels, timing and collection of revenue received from sales of lomitapide worldwide in the future;     •   the cost of our observational cohort study and other post-marketing commitments to the fda and eu, and the costs of post marketing commitments in any other countries where lomitapide is ultimately approved;     •   the timing and cost of other clinical development activities; and     •   the timing and costs of future business development opportunities in february 2013, we filed an automatic shelf registration statement on form s-3 asr with the sec. this shelf registration statement permits us to offer, from time to time, an unspecified amount of any combination of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and warrants, so long as we qualify as “well known seasoned issuer,” as defined under sec regulations. in march 2012, we entered into a loan and security agreement with silicon valley bank, pursuant to which silicon valley bank made a term loan to us in the principal amount of $10.0 million. the loan and security agreement provided for interest-only payments through february 28, 2013, with per annum interest of 6.75% and a final payment of $0.2 million. we used the proceeds of the term loan to fully repay our existing loan from hercules technology ii, l.p. and hercules technology iii, l.p. (collectively, the “hercules funds”). under the loan and security agreement, we have agreed to repay the principal balance of the term loan in 36 monthly installments starting on march 1, 2013, and continuing through february 1, 2016. as of december 31, 2013, we owed approximately $7.2 million under the term loan. we may prepay all or any part of the outstanding term loan subject to a prepayment premium (defined in the loan and security agreement) at our option. in connection with the loan and security agreement, we granted silicon valley bank a negative pledge on our intellectual property and a security interest in all of our personal property now owned or hereafter acquired, excluding intellectual property. the loan and security agreement also provides for standard indemnification of silicon valley bank and contains representations, warranties and certain covenants (including the agreement by us to maintain a specified level of liquidity). during 2013, we made principal payments to silicon valley bank under the term loan amounting to $2.8 million. in july 2012, the loan and security agreement was amended to include a line of credit of up to $0.8 million to finance the purchase of certain types of equipment acquired by us during the two years ended december 31, 2012 with a per annum interest of 4.75%. we financed approximately $0.6 million under this arrangement, and the remaining line of credit balance expired unused. as of december 31, 2013, we owed approximately $0.4 million under the line of credit. pursuant to the amendment, monthly principal payments on the line of credit began in january 2013 and continue through december 2015. during 2013, we made principal payments to silicon valley bank under the line of credit amounting to $0.2 million. we may pursue opportunities to obtain additional external financing in the future through debt and equity financing, lease arrangements related to facilities and capital equipment, collaborative research and development agreements, and license agreements.   66 table of contents we anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to enable us to maintain our currently planned operations, including our continued development of lomitapide. however, changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate. in addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations, including to finance product acquisition opportunities, even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. additional financing may not be available when we need it or may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. if we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be required to reduce the scope of our planned development, sales and marketing efforts, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. the source, timing and availability of any future financing will depend principally upon equity and debt market conditions, interest rates and, more specifically, on the extent of our commercial success and the results of our future development efforts. there can be no assurance that external funds will be available on favorable terms, if at all. we face certain litigation risks that could harm our business. we have had a federal securities class action lawsuit filed against us alleging that we and certain of our executive officers made certain misstatements and omissions related to the marketing of juxtapid and the company’s financial performance in violation of federal securities laws. we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against the claims made in this lawsuit. an unfavorable outcome or settlement of this or any similar stockholder lawsuits that may be filed against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations. even if this lawsuit is not resolved against us, the uncertainty and expense associated with an unresolved lawsuit could adversely impact our business, financial condition and reputation. litigation is costly, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations. the continued costs of defending this lawsuit could be significant. while we maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance that we believe to be applicable to this claim, certain costs, such as those below a retention amount, are not covered by our insurance policies. in addition, our insurance carriers could refuse to cover some or all of these claims in whole or in part. the continued defense of this lawsuit may also result in continued diversion of our management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in late 2013, we received a subpoena from the united states department of justice, represented by the u.s. attorney’s office in boston, requesting documents and other information pertaining to our promotion, marketing, and sale of juxtapid in connection with a government investigation of our practices. we are in the process of responding to the subpoena, and intend to cooperate fully with the investigation. while we intend to vigorously defend ourselves, we may not be able to resolve this matter without incurring significant fines, settlement amounts, sanctions, or other consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. even if we are able to resolve this matter without incurring significant payments or penalties, responding to the subpoena has been, and is expected to continue to be, costly and time-consuming. moreover, this investigation could adversely impact our reputation and the willingness of physicians to prescribe lomitapide for their hofh patients, and may divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we are aware that governmental authorities in são paulo, brazil are conducting an investigation to determine whether two of our employees have violated anti-corruption laws in connection with prescriptions of lomitapide written in brazil. we do not believe that a violation of any brazilian anti-corruption laws has occurred, and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in the event brazilian authorities ultimately decide to bring action against us or our employees. if our operations in brazil or in any other country in which we sell lomitapide through an expanded access program are found as part of this or any other investigation to be in violation of any laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, and fines. in addition with the respect to the investigation in brazil, we may experience a reluctance of physicians to prescribe juxtapid, or a delay or suspension in the government ordering process, while the investigation is ongoing, or if our activities are found to have violated applicable laws.   67 table of contents raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights. we may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings and collaborations and strategic and licensing arrangements. to the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. debt financing, if available, would result in increased fixed payment obligations and may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. if we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. we were incorporated in february 2005. our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company and conducting product development activities, commercial-build and activities related to commercialization of lomitapide. we only began generating revenues in january 2013. consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history and more experience in generating revenue. in addition, as a relatively young business, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other known and unknown factors. changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our results of operations, particularly once we utilize our remaining federal and state net operating loss, or nol, carryforwards. we are subject to federal and state income taxes in the u.s. various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate (sometimes referred to as “book tax”). these factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, the accounting for stock-based compensation, the accounting for business combinations, including accounting for contingent consideration, changes in tax laws and rates, the tax impact of existing or future health care reform legislation, future levels of research and development spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, the outcome of examinations by the internal revenue service and other jurisdictions, the accuracy of our estimates for unrecognized tax benefits and realization of deferred tax assets and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings. the impact on our provision for income tax resulting from the above-mentioned factors may be significant and could adversely affect our results of operations, including our expected net income. the effect of provision for income tax on our results of operations may impact, or be perceived to impact, our financial condition and may therefore cause our stock price to decline. any changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may cause adverse fluctuations in our reported results of operations or affect how we conduct our business. a change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements, taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation rules have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. the change to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the need for us to modify a current tax or accounting position may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.   68 table of contents risks related to our common stock we have limited history generating product revenue, and may, in the future, need to raise capital to operate our business. we do not have a long history generating revenues from sales of lomitapide. we launched lomitapide in the u.s. under the brand name juxtapid in the first quarter of 2013 and have had revenues from named patient sales of lomitapide in certain countries where such sales can occur as a result of the fda or eu approval of lomitapide. the ec granted market authorization to lomitapide under the brand name, lojuxta, on july 31, 2013. lomitapide is also approved in mexico, canada, norway and iceland. we do not yet have pricing and reimbursement approval for lojuxta in any country of the eu or in canada or mexico, and we have not yet generated any revenues in those countries. we continue to expect to generate revenues from sales of juxtapid in a limited number of other countries where lomitapide is available on a named patient sale basis as a result of the u.s. and eu approvals. we expect that prescriptions for named patient sales in brazil in the near term will continue to be the second largest source of revenues, on a country-by-country basis, outside the u.s. our ability to generate significant product revenue in the foreseeable future, and the amount of any such revenue, depend on a number of factors, including our ability to:     •   effectively market, sell and distribute lomitapide in the u.s.;     •   obtain anticipated levels of named patient sales of lomitapide in brazil and in other key countries where such sales can occur as a result of the fda approval or grant by the ec of marketing authorization of lomitapide in the eu;     •   successfully obtain timely reimbursement and pricing approval for lomitapide in key countries in which lomitapide is, or may be, approved at acceptable prices and on acceptable terms, and successfully launch lomitapide in those countries;     •   maintain market acceptance by patients and physicians for lomitapide as a treatment for hofh, and minimize the number of patients who discontinue lomitapide treatment due to tolerability issues, including through patient support programs, to the extent permitted in a particular country;     •   obtaining timely approval of lomitapide in key international markets outside the countries where lomitapide is currently approved without onerous restrictions or limitations in the regulatory label, and effectively launching lomitapide in such markets;     •   effectively estimate the size of the total addressable market;     •   have sufficient commercial quantities of lomitapide to meet demand and;     •   recognize revenue from certain distributors where revenue recognition is dependent upon cash collection. we may in the future require additional financing. if we do not succeed in raising additional funds on acceptable terms, if needed, we may be required to alter or scale back our planned activities. in addition, we could be forced to discontinue product development, forego attractive business opportunities or curtail operations. any additional sources of financing could involve the issuance of our equity securities, which would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. no assurance can be given that additional financing will be available to us when needed on acceptable terms, or at all.   69 table of contents the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. our stock price is volatile, and from october 22, 2010, the first day of trading of our common stock, to december 31, 2013, the trading prices of our stock have ranged from $9.00 to $101.00 per share. this is in part because there has been a public market for our common stock only since our initial public offering in october 2010, and our stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:     •   the short-term or long-term success or failure of our commercialization of lomitapide in the u.s.;     •   the level of revenue we receive from named patient sales of lomitapide in brazil and other key countries where such sales can occur as a result of fda approval or the marketing authorization granted by the ec for lomitapide;     •   our ability to obtain timely pricing and reimbursement approval for lomitapide in the key countries of the eu and in the other countries in which lomitapide is, or may be, approved at acceptable price levels and on acceptable terms;     •   the short-term or long-term success or failure of our commercialization of lomitapide in key countries outside the u.s. in which we have or obtain approval, and the level of revenues we generate;     •   the initiation and results of our planned further clinical trials of lomitapide;     •   any issues that may arise with our supply chain for lomitapide;     •   any issues that may arise with respect to the safety of lomitapide;     •   our ability to defend ourselves successfully in ongoing government investigations and against claims made in securities class action lawsuits, and, if we are unsuccessful in such defense, the type and amount of any damages, settlement amounts, fines or other payments or adverse consequences that may result;     •   fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; and general market conditions and overall fluctuations in u.s. equity markets;     •   low trading volume and short interest positions in our stock;     •   international financial market conditions, including the on-going sovereign debt crisis in the eu;     •   variations in our quarterly operating results;     •   changes in our financial guidance or securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance;     •   announcements of investigations or other notifications from enforcement or regulatory authorities related to our business or business practices;     •   announcements of clinical data, new products, services or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors;     •   changes in or materially incorrect application of accounting principles;     •   issuance by us of new securities, or sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders;     •   additions or departures of key personnel;     •   success or failure of products within our therapeutic area of focus;     •   discussion of us or our stock price by the financial press and in online investor communities;     •   our relationships with and the conduct of third parties on which we depend; and     •   other risks and uncertainties described in these risk factors.   70 table of contents in addition, the stock market in general, and the market for small pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. in addition, broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market in a company’s stock, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against such a company. recently, we, and certain of our executive officers, have been named as defendants in a federal securities class action lawsuit filed against us alleging that we and certain of our executive officers made certain false and misleading statements in violation of federal securities laws. see part i, item 3—“legal proceedings.” these proceedings and similar litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. these provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to obtain greater value for stockholders by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer rejected by our board of directors was considered beneficial by some stockholders. in addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, a stockholder’s ability to achieve a return on investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. we have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock, and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. we currently anticipate that we will retain any future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. therefore, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in the value of such shares. there is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or a sale of securities convertible into common stock or the perception that these sales might occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise adequate capital through the sale of additional equity securities. if our existing stockholders sell, or if the market believes our existing stockholders will sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly.   71 table of contents as of december 31, 2013, there were:     •   5,162,668 shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options outstanding under our 2006 stock option and award plan, the 2010 stock option and incentive plan and the inducement stock option plan;     •   9,963 shares of restricted common stock subject to vesting;     •   776,695 shares available for future issuance under the 2010 stock option and incentive plan; and     •   1,318,635 shares available for issuance under our inducement stock option plan, a plan that is to be used exclusively for the grant of stock options to individuals who were not previously an employee or a non-employee director (or following a bona fide period of non-employment with us), as an inducement material to the individual’s entry into employment, other than as an executive officer, with us within the meaning of rule 5635(c)(4) of the nasdaq listing rules. under the 2010 plan, the shares reserved for issuance under the plan are automatically increased on an annual basis in accordance with a pre-determined formula. as a result, on january 1, 2014, january 1, 2013, and january 1, 2012, an additional 1,175,372, 1,019,590, and 848,012 shares, respectively, were added to the aggregate number of shares reserved for future issuance under the 2010 plan under the annual automatic share increase provision of the plan. if additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. we have registered approximately 8,000,000 shares of the common stock described above that are subject to outstanding stock options and reserved for issuance under our equity plans. these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to vesting restrictions.   item 1b. unresolved