item 1a. risk factors. risks associated with product development and commercialization we currently depend entirely on the success of our lead compound, lomitapide, which we are developing initially for the treatment of patients with hofh. we are also developing a protocol for a clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of adult patients with fc. we may not receive marketing approval for, or successfully commercialize, lomitapide for any indication. we are initially developing our lead compound, lomitapide, for the treatment of patients with hofh, and are developing a protocol for a clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of adult patients with fc. our business currently depends entirely on the successful development and commercialization of lomitapide. we have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain marketing approval for any product candidate, we have no drug products for sale currently and we may never be able to develop marketable drug products. the research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by the fda and other regulatory authorities in the united states and other countries, which regulations differ from country to country. we are not permitted to market lomitapide or any other product candidate in the united states until we receive approval of an nda from the fda, or in any foreign countries until we receive the requisite approval from such countries. we have not submitted an nda to the fda or comparable applications to other regulatory authorities or received marketing approval for lomitapide or any other product candidate. obtaining approval of an nda is an extensive, lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and the fda may delay, limit or deny approval of lomitapide for many reasons, including:     •   we may not be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the fda that lomitapide is safe and effective for any indication;     •   the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance or clinical significance required by the fda for approval;     •   the fda may disagree with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of our clinical trials;     •   the fda may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to demonstrate that lomitapide’s clinical and other benefits outweighs its safety risks;     •   the fda may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials;     •   the fda may not accept data generated at our clinical trial sites;     •   the data collected from preclinical studies and clinical trials of any product candidate that we develop may not be sufficient to support the submission of an nda;     •   the fda may have difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting in a timely manner or the advisory committee may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the fda require, as a condition of approval, additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions;     •   the fda may require development of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or rems, as a condition of approval;     •   the fda may identify deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or facilities of third party manufacturers with which we enter into agreements for clinical and commercial supplies; or     •   the fda may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. before we submit an nda to the fda for lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh, we must complete our ongoing pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh and a   27 table of contents thorough qt study in healthy volunteers to evaluate the effect of lomitapide on the heart’s electrical cycle, known as the qt interval, a study of lomitapide in patients who are renally impaired and a study of patients who are hepatically impaired. as part of our nda submission, we will provide to the fda an analysis of biomarkers for hepatic inflammation and fibrosis using stored samples from a prior phase ii clinical trial as well as our ongoing phase iii trial to better determine lomitapide’s impact on these biomarkers as a proxy for more significant liver complications. if, following submission, our nda is not accepted for substantive review or approved, the fda may require that we conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials before it will reconsider our application. in particular, it is possible that the fda may not consider the results of our ongoing single-arm, dose titration, open-label pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh, once completed, to be sufficient for approval of lomitapide for this indication. for example, because the fda normally requires two pivotal clinical trials to approve an nda, even if we achieve favorable results in our ongoing pivotal phase iii clinical trial, the fda may require that we conduct a second phase iii clinical trial if the fda does not find the results to be sufficiently persuasive. the fda typically does not consider a single clinical trial to be adequate to serve as a pivotal trial unless it is, among other things, well-controlled and blinded. although the fda has informed us that it is not opposed to our submitting an nda based on the results of our ongoing phase iii clinical trial, it is possible that, even if we achieve favorable results in our ongoing phase iii clinical trial, the fda may require us to conduct a second phase iii clinical trial, possibly using a different design, including if the fda does not find the results from the single trial to be sufficiently persuasive. in addition, it is possible that the fda could require that we conduct a clinical outcomes study for lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh, demonstrating a reduction in cardiovascular events, either prior to or after the submission of our nda. if the fda requires additional studies or trials, we would incur increased costs and delays in the marketing approval process, which may require us to expend more resources than we have available. in addition, the fda may not consider as sufficient our clinical trial strategy or any additional required studies or trials that we perform and complete. for example, the fda may not accept a combined phase ii/iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of adult patients with fc, but may require separate phase ii and phase iii trials. any delay in obtaining, or an inability to obtain, marketing approvals would prevent us from commercializing lomitapide, generating revenue and achieving profitability. the numbers of patients suffering from hofh and fc are small and have not been established with precision. if the actual number of patients with either of these conditions is smaller than we estimate or if any approval that we obtain is based on a narrower definition of these patient populations, our revenue and ability to achieve profitability will be adversely affected, possibly materially. there is no patient registry or other method of establishing with precision the actual number of patients with hofh or fc in any geography. in a report that we commissioned, l.e.k. consulting llc, or lek, an international business consulting firm, estimates that the total number of addressable patients with symptoms consistent with hofh in each of the united states and, collectively, germany, the united kingdom, france, italy and spain, which are referred to herein as the european union five, is approximately 3,000 patients, or a combined total of approximately 6,000 patients. in the report that we commissioned, lek estimates that there are approximately 1,000 patients in the united states and the european union five with fc who could be eligible for treatment with lomitapide. if the actual number of hofh or fc patients is lower than we believe or if any approval that we obtain is based on a narrower definition of these patient populations, then the potential markets for lomitapide for these indications will be smaller than we anticipate. for example, the medical literature has historically estimated a prevalence of hofh, based solely on persons with the hofh genotype, at approximately one person per million. in any such event, if lomitapide is approved for either of these indications, our product revenue may be limited and it may be more difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. in addition, we currently plan to seek approval of lomitapide initially for the treatment of patients with hofh who are 18 years of age or older. to seek approval for younger patients, we are also planning a pediatric clinical trial to evaluate lomitapide for the treatment of pediatric and adolescent patients (> 7 to < 18 years of age) with hofh. as a result, if approved, the label for lomitapide would restrict its use to the adult patient population. this will limit our initial product revenue and may make it more difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. we expect that our approach to seeking approval of lomitapide for fc also will involve initially seeking marketing approval solely for the adult patient population.   28 table of contents in earlier preclinical studies and clinical trials, lomitapide was associated with undesirable side effects, such as adverse gastrointestinal events, elevated liver enzymes and increases in mean hepatic fat levels. patients in our ongoing pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh have also experienced such undesirable side effects. lomitapide may continue to cause such side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent its marketing approval or result in adverse limitations in any approved labeling or on distribution and use of the product. undesirable side effects caused by lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop could cause us, regulatory authorities or institutional review boards to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the delay or denial of marketing approval by the fda or other regulatory authorities. in earlier studies conducted by us, researchers at the university of pennsylvania, or upenn, and bristol-myers squibb company, or bms, lomitapide was associated with undesirable side effects. we have also observed some of these side effects to a lesser extent in our ongoing pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh. for example, in early phase i and phase ii clinical trials of lomitapide conducted by bms and upenn, doses between 25 mg and 100 mg were associated with a very high rate of gastrointestinal adverse events, such as diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, as well as the accumulation of fat in the liver, or hepatic fat, in a significant percentage of patients and elevated liver enzymes in some patients. although we believe that the high rate of discontinuations in these early phase i and phase ii clinical trials due to gastrointestinal adverse events resulted in large part from the failure to employ dose titration, which is the gradual increase in dosing over time to allow the body to adapt to the impact of a higher dose, this may not be the case. patients in our ongoing pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh, where dose titration has been employed, have also experienced adverse gastrointestinal events, but to a lesser extent than those experienced in earlier clinical trials. even if lomitapide gains marketing approval, if marketing experience or future clinical trials demonstrate an increased risk of gastrointestinal side effects, lomitapide may not gain market acceptance over other drugs approved for the treatment of the same indications that do not have such side effects and could be subject to adverse regulatory action by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities. a subset of patients in earlier phase i and phase ii clinical trials of lomitapide experienced increased levels of liver enzymes. increases in liver enzymes observed in these earlier clinical trials were typically greater with higher doses of lomitapide, but occurred in some cases at lower doses. for example, in a phase ii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh, clinically significant elevations in the liver enzyme alanine transaminase, or alt, were observed in three of six patients. in one patient, the dose of lomitapide was temporarily reduced per protocol, after which alt returned to lower levels. the patient subsequently was able to resume the earlier, higher dose and continue to be titrated to the maximum dose. in the other two patients, transient elevations in alt returned to lower levels with continued treatment. in our ongoing pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh, as of september 30, 2010, four of the 23 patients remaining in the trial had alt elevations greater than five times the upper limit of normal. of these four patients, three underwent a temporary dose reduction and have been able to maintain study drug at a stable dose. one patient discontinued treatment for a period of seven weeks, after which time treatment was reinstated and the patient was able to maintain a stable dose and complete the trial per protocol. no patients have been removed from the trial due to liver function test elevations. significantly elevated plasma liver enzymes are indicative of some degree of liver cell damage and in some instances can be indicative of liver toxicity. a subset of patients in earlier phase i and phase ii clinical trials of lomitapide also experienced increases in mean hepatic fat levels. although increases in hepatic fat in earlier clinical trials were typically greater with higher doses of lomitapide, increases also occurred in some cases at lower doses. for example, in a completed 12 week phase ii clinical trial of lomitapide, mean hepatic fat levels increased from week zero to week four, but then plateaued. in our ongoing pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh, as of september 30, 2010, the 22 patients who had hepatic fat measurements taken experienced a modest increase in hepatic fat from a mean of 1.2% to 8.7% at 26 weeks of treatment. the threshold for mild steatosis, a condition of hepatic fat accumulation, is in the range of 5 to 6% fat. of these, 16 patients had completed 56 weeks of treatment as of september 30, 2010 and 14 of these patients had hepatic fat measurements available; these 14 patients had a mean hepatic fat level of 5.1% at this measurement time. in addition, the median change in hepatic fat from baseline in these patients as of september 30, 2010, was 5.48% at 26 weeks of treatment and 2.14% at 56 weeks of treatment. some studies suggest that patients who have hepatic steatosi, which results from lifestyle factors, such as obesity and type 2 diabetes, may be at an increased risk for more severe long-term liver consequences, such as hepatic   29 table of contents inflammation and fibrosis. however, the consequences of hepatic steatosis, which results from other factors, is unclear. we will also provide to the fda an analysis of biomarkers for hepatic inflammation and fibrosis using stored samples from a prior phase ii clinical trial as well as our ongoing phase iii trial to better determine lomitapide’s impact on these biomarkers as a proxy for more significant liver complications. if the results of this analysis indicate a risk of hepatic inflammation and fibrosis, or if patients in our ongoing pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh or future clinical trials have clinically significant hepatic fat accumulation or significantly elevated liver enzymes or other liver related side effects, the fda or other regulatory authorities could delay or deny marketing approval for lomitapide. also, even if lomitapide is approved, if marketing experience or future clinical trials demonstrate hepatic fat accumulation, significantly elevated liver enzymes or other liver related side effects, lomitapide may not gain market acceptance over other drugs approved for the treatment of the same indications that do not have such side effects and could be subject to adverse regulatory action by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities. in a 104 week dietary carcinogenicity study of lomitapide in mice, significantly increased incidences of tumors in the small intestine and liver were observed. the relationship of these findings in mice is uncertain with regard to human safety because they did not occur in a dose-related manner and liver tumors are common spontaneous findings in the strain of mice used in this study. in a recently completed 104 week oral carcinogenicity study of lomitapide in rats, there were no significant incidences of tumors. we submitted the results of both studies to the fda in march 2011. although the clinical significance of the findings in mice is unknown, marketing approval could be delayed, limited, or prevented as a result of these carcinogenicity data or carcinogenicity data from the rat study or ongoing clinical trials. also, even if lomitapide is approved, if marketing experience or future preclinical studies or clinical trials demonstrate potential carcinogenicity, lomitapide may not gain market acceptance over other drugs approved for the treatment of the same indications that do not have such side effects and could be subject to adverse regulatory action by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities. even if lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop receives marketing approval, we or others may later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product, and in that event a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:     •   regulatory authorities may suspend or withdraw their approval of the product;     •   regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as warnings or contraindications or distribution and use restrictions;     •   regulatory authorities may require us to issue specific communications to healthcare professionals, such as “dear doctor” letters;     •   regulatory authorities may issue negative publicity regarding the affected product, including safety communications;     •   we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials or restrict the distribution or use of the product;     •   we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and     •   our reputation may suffer. any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product candidate and could substantially increase commercialization costs. failures or delays in the commencement or completion of preclinical or clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay, prevent or limit our ability to generate revenue.   30 table of contents failures or delays in the commencement or completion of preclinical studies or clinical testing could significantly affect our product development costs and delay, prevent or limit our ability to generate revenue. we do not know whether planned preclinical studies or clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. the commencement and completion of preclinical studies or clinical trials can be delayed or prevented for a number of reasons, including:     •   findings in preclinical studies, such as the existence of pulmonary phospholipidosis, which is the accumulation in lung cells of phospholipids, or lipids with attached phosphate groups, or carcinogenicity;     •   difficulties obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial or complying with conditions imposed by a regulatory authority regarding the scope or term of a clinical trial;     •   delays in reaching or failing to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or cros, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different cros and trial sites;     •   insufficient or inadequate supply or quality of a product candidate or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials;     •   difficulties obtaining institutional review board, or irb, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site;     •   challenges recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including size and nature of patient population, proximity of patients to clinical sites, eligibility criteria for the trial, nature of trial protocol, the availability of approved effective treatments for the relevant disease and competition from other clinical trial programs for similar indications;     •   severe or unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by patients in a clinical trial; and     •   difficulties retaining patients who have enrolled in a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to rigors of the trials, lack of efficacy, side effects or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up. clinical trials may also be delayed or terminated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. in addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the fda, the irbs at the sites where the irbs are overseeing a trial, or a data safety monitoring board, or dsmb, overseeing the clinical trial at issue, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:     •   failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols;     •   inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the fda or other regulatory authorities;     •   unforeseen safety issues or lack of effectiveness; and     •   lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. for example, in june 2007, we discontinued a phase ii clinical trial of lomitapide because of suspected microbial contamination, which we believe resulted in patients experiencing gastrointestinal adverse events at a rate, severity and time of onset inconsistent with prior clinical data for lomitapide. after extensive testing and other investigation, we believe that the bacterium b. cereus, which is most often identified with food borne illness, was introduced into the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or api, of the clinical supplies of the drug used in this trial. the existence of microbial contamination by b. cereus is consistent with the nature and intensity of the adverse events experienced in this trial. in previous clinical trials, all of which were conducted using a different lot of api, adverse events were milder, less frequent and typically experienced only after a few days of treatment. we subsequently manufactured a new lot of api and a new lot of clinical supplies utilizing a previously tested lot of api and instituted new quality control and testing procedures, including tests for microbial contamination, as part of our manufacturing process. a subsequent clinical trial of lomitapide conducted using these newly manufactured clinical supplies did not result in a discontinuation rate consistent with that experienced in the halted trial. however, we may not have identified the actual cause of these adverse events, and it is possible that microbial contamination was not the only cause of these adverse events. positive results in preclinical studies and earlier clinical trials of lomitapide may not be replicated in later clinical trials of lomitapide, which could result in development delays or a failure to obtain marketing approval.   31 table of contents positive results in preclinical studies of lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and promising results from early clinical trials of lomitapide or any other product candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials and ongoing clinical trials for lomitapide may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials. our preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. moreover, preclinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain fda approval for their products. changes in regulatory requirements and guidance or unanticipated events during our clinical trials may occur, which may result in necessary changes to clinical trial protocols, which could result in increased costs to us, delay our development timeline or reduce the likelihood of successful completion of the clinical trial. changes in regulatory requirements and guidance or unanticipated events during our clinical trials may occur, as a result of which we may need to amend clinical trial protocols. amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to irbs for review and approval, which may impact the cost, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. if we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for lomitapide may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenue will be delayed, possibly materially. recently enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop and affect the prices we may obtain. in the united states and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval for lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell lomitapide or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. we are not sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the fda regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of lomitapide, if any, may be. in addition, increased scrutiny by the u.s. congress of the fda’s approval process may significantly delay or prevent marketing approval, as well as subject us to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements. in the united states, the medicare prescription drug, improvement, and modernization act of 2003, or the mma, changed the way medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. the legislation expanded medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for drugs. in addition, this legislation authorized medicare part d prescription drug plans to use formularies where they can limit the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. as a result of this legislation and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, we expect that there will be additional pressure to contain and reduce costs. these cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our business. while the mma applies only to drug benefits for medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the mma may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. more recently, in march 2010, president obama signed into law the health care reform law, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. effective october 1, 2010, the health care reform law revised the definition of “average manufacturer price” for reporting purposes,   32 table of contents which could increase the amount of medicaid drug rebates to states. further, beginning in 2011, the new law imposed a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. substantial new provisions affecting compliance have also been enacted, which may require us to modify our business practices with healthcare practitioners. we will not know the full effects of the health care reform law until applicable federal and state agencies issue regulations or guidance under the new law. although it is too early to determine the effect of the health care reform law, the new law appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. even if lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop receives marketing approval, we will continue to face extensive regulatory requirements and the product may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. even if marketing approval is obtained, a regulatory authority may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indications, conditions for use, distribution or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-market surveillance, post-approval studies or clinical trials. for example, any labeling ultimately approved by the fda for lomitapide, if it is approved for marketing, may include restrictions on use, such as limitations on how hofh is defined and diagnosed or limiting lomitapide to second-line or concomitant therapy. in addition, the labeling may include restrictions based upon evidence of hepatic fat accumulation, liver function test elevations, gastrointestinal distress, phospholipidosis or carcinogenicity. lomitapide will also be subject to ongoing fda requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, distribution, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-market information, including adverse events, and any changes to the approved product, product labeling, or manufacturing process. the fda has significant post-market authority, including, for example, the authority to require labeling changes based on new safety information and to require post-market studies or clinical trials to evaluate serious safety risks related to the use of a drug. in addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the fda and other regulatory authorities for compliance with current good manufacturing practice, or cgmp, and other regulations. if we, our drug products or the manufacturing facilities for our drug products fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may:     •   issue warning letters or untitled letters;     •   seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines;     •   suspend or withdraw marketing approval;     •   suspend any ongoing clinical trials;     •   refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications submitted by us;     •   suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements;     •   seize or detain products, refuse to permit the import or export of products or request that we initiate a product recall; or     •   refuse to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. the fda has the authority to require a rems plan as part of an nda or after approval, which may impose further requirements or restrictions on the distribution or use of an approved drug, such as limiting prescribing to certain physicians or medical centers that have undergone specialized training, limiting treatment to patients who meet certain safe-use criteria and requiring treated patients to enroll in a registry. based on our discussions with the fda, we believe lomitapide, if approved by the fda for the treatment of patients with hofh, is likely to be subject to a rems plan. in particular, we believe that any rems plan for lomitapide, if it is approved for the treatment of patients with hofh, will focus on the fda’s concern that lomitapide not be used in broader patient populations with less severely elevated lipid levels because of the potentially different risk-benefit profile of the drug. even if lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop receives marketing approval in the united states, we may never receive approval or commercialize lomitapide or any other product candidate outside of the united states.   33 table of contents in order to market any product outside of the united states, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials and commercial sales, pricing and distribution of the product. approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. the time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain fda approval. the marketing approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding fda approval in the united states as well as other risks. in particular, in many countries outside the united states, it is required that a product receive pricing and reimbursement approval before the product can be commercialized. this can result in substantial delays in such countries. marketing approval in one country does not ensure marketing approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining marketing approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. failure to obtain marketing approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval would impair our ability to develop foreign markets for lomitapide. this would reduce our target market and limit the full commercial potential of lomitapide. many countries are undertaking cost-containment measures that could affect pricing or reimbursement of a product. if we receive marketing approval for lomitapide or any other product candidate, sales will be limited unless the product achieves broad market acceptance. the commercial success of lomitapide and any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval from the fda or other regulatory authorities will depend upon the acceptance of the product by the medical community, including physicians, patients and healthcare payors. the degree of market acceptance of any approved product will depend on a number of factors, including:     •   demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy compared to other products;     •   the relative convenience and ease of administration;     •   the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects;     •   limitations or warnings contained in the product’s approved labeling;     •   distribution and use restrictions imposed by the fda or agreed to by us as part of a mandatory rems or voluntary risk management plan;     •   availability of alternative treatments, including, in the case of lomitapide, a number of competitive products already approved for the treatment of hyperlipidemia or expected to be commercially launched in the near future;     •   pricing and cost effectiveness;     •   the effectiveness of our or any future collaborators’ sales and marketing strategies;     •   our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement; and     •   the willingness of patients to pay out of pocket in the absence of third-party coverage. we plan to seek marketing approval for lomitapide for the treatment of both hofh and fc based on achieving surrogate endpoints in pivotal clinical testing, as opposed to demonstrating improved clinical outcomes. the absence of outcome data may limit market acceptance of lomitapide, if approved for one or both of these indications, by physicians and patients. if lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from the product, and we may not become or remain profitable. in addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of the product may require significant resources and may never be successful. the fda and other regulatory agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses. if we are found to have improperly promoted off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability.   34 table of contents the fda and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. in particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the fda or such other regulatory agencies as reflected in the product’s approved labeling. in particular, any labeling approved by the fda for lomitapide may include restrictions on use, such as limitations on how hofh is defined and diagnosed or limiting lomitapide to second-line or concomitant therapy. the fda may impose further requirements or restrictions on the distribution or use of lomitapide as part of a rems plan, such as limiting prescribing to certain physicians or medical centers that have undergone specialized training, limiting treatment to patients who meet certain safe-use criteria and requiring treated patients to enroll in a registry. if we receive marketing approval for lomitapide, physicians may nevertheless prescribe lomitapide to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label. if we are found to have promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. the federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. the fda has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed. it will be difficult for us to profitably sell lomitapide or any other product for which we obtain marketing approval if reimbursement for the product is limited. market acceptance and sales of lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop will depend on reimbursement policies and may be affected by healthcare reform measures. government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. a primary trend in the u.s. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. government authorities and these third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. we cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for lomitapide or any other product that we develop and, if reimbursement is available, the level of reimbursement. reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product for which we obtain marketing approval. obtaining reimbursement for lomitapide may be particularly difficult because of the higher prices often associated with drugs directed at orphan populations. in addition, third-party payors are likely to impose strict requirements for reimbursement in order to limit off label use of a higher priced drug. if reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop. if we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities to market and sell lomitapide, we may be unable to generate product revenue. we do not currently have an organization for the sale, marketing or distribution of pharmaceutical products. we have not yet demonstrated an ability to commercialize any product candidate. in order to market any products that may be approved by the fda or any other regulatory authority, we must build our sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. if lomitapide is approved by the fda or the ema, we plan to build a commercial infrastructure to launch lomitapide in the united states and the european union, as the case may be, with a relatively small specialty sales force. the establishment and development of our commercial infrastructure will be expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to successfully develop this capability. although our current plan is to hire most of our sales force only if lomitapide is approved by the fda or the ema, we will incur expenses prior to product launch in recruiting this sales force and developing a marketing and sales infrastructure. if the commercial launch of lomitapide is delayed as a result of fda or ema requirements or other reasons, we would incur these expenses prior to being able to realize any revenue from product sales. even if we are able to effectively hire a sales force and develop a marketing and sales infrastructure, our sales force may not be successful in commercializing lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop. if we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. to the extent we rely on third parties to commercialize lomitapide, if marketing approval is obtained, we may receive less revenue than if we commercialized the product ourselves. in addition, we would have less control over the sales efforts of any third parties involved in our commercialization efforts. in the event we are unable to collaborate with a third-party marketing and sales organization to commercialize lomitapide, particularly for broader   35 table of contents patient populations, our ability to generate product revenue may be limited either in the united states or internationally. if we pursue development of lomitapide for broader patient populations, we likely will be subject to stricter regulatory requirements, product development will be more costly and commercial pricing for any approved indication would likely be lower. although we are initially pursuing development of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh and fc, we believe that lomitapide may be useful for the treatment of elevated lipid levels in broader patient populations. however, our potential development and commercialization of lomitapide in these broader patient populations would be more costly than for hofh and fc and would be subject to development and commercialization risks that are not applicable to hofh and fc. clinical development of lomitapide in broader patient populations would involve clinical trials with larger numbers of patients possibly taking the drug for longer periods of time. this would be costly and could take many years to complete. in addition, we believe that the fda and, in some cases, the ema would require a clinical outcomes study demonstrating a reduction in cardiovascular events either prior to or after the submission of an application for marketing approval for these broader indications. clinical outcomes studies are particularly expensive and time consuming to conduct because of the larger number of patients required to establish that the drug being tested has the desired effect. it may also be more difficult for us to demonstrate the desired outcome in these studies than to achieve validated surrogate endpoints, such as the primary efficacy endpoint of our ongoing pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh of percent change in ldl-c levels. in addition, in considering approval of lomitapide for broader patient populations with less severely elevated lipid levels, the fda and other regulatory authorities may place greater emphasis on the side effect and risk profile of the drug in comparison to the drug’s efficacy and potential clinical benefit than in smaller, more severely afflicted patient populations. these factors may make it more difficult for us to achieve marketing approvals of lomitapide for these broader patient populations. if we are able to successfully develop and obtain marketing approval of lomitapide in these broader patient populations, we likely will not be able to obtain the same pricing level that we secure for use of lomitapide for orphan indications. the pricing of some drugs intended for orphan populations is often related to the size of the patient population, with smaller patient populations often justifying higher prices. if the pricing for lomitapide is lower in broader patient populations, we may not be able to maintain higher pricing in the population of more severely afflicted patients. this would lead to a decrease in revenue from sales to more severely afflicted patients and could make it more difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. in addition, if one of our product candidates receives marketing approval for a broader indication than its orphan designation, we may not be able to maintain any orphan drug exclusivity that we obtain or such orphan drug exclusivity may be circumvented by a third-party competitor. if we fail to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity for lomitapide, we will have to rely on our data and marketing exclusivity, if any, and on our intellectual property rights. as part of our business strategy, we have obtained in the united states orphan drug designation for lomitapide for the treatment of hofh. in march 2011, the fda granted lomitapide orphan drug designation for the treatment of fc. under the orphan drug act, the fda may designate a product as an orphan drug if it is a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition, defined, in part, as a patient population of fewer than 200,000 in the united states. in the united states, the company that first obtains fda approval for a designated orphan drug for the specified rare disease or condition receives orphan drug marketing exclusivity for that drug for a period of seven years. this orphan drug exclusivity prevents the fda from approving another application, including a full nda, to market the same drug for the same orphan indication, except in very limited circumstances. for purposes of small molecule drugs, the fda defines “same drug” as a drug that contains the same active molecule and is intended for the same use as the drug in question. a designated orphan drug may not receive orphan drug exclusivity if it is approved for a use that is broader than the indication for which it received orphan designation. in addition, orphan drug exclusive marketing rights in the united states may be lost if the fda later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition.   36 table of contents the ema grants orphan drug designation to promote the development of products that may offer therapeutic benefits for life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions affecting not more than five in 10,000 people in the european union. orphan drug designation from the ema provides ten years of marketing exclusivity following drug approval, subject to reduction to six years if the designation criteria are no longer met. in october 2010, we withdrew our application to the ema for orphan drug designation for lomitapide for the treatment of hofh, based on guidance we received from the ema that lomitapide is not eligible for orphan drug designation for this indication since lomitapide has the potential to treat hypercholesterolemia in broader patient populations. in october 2010, the ema granted lomitapide orphan drug designation for the treatment of fc. our failure to obtain orphan drug designation for lomitapide for the treatment of hofh in the european union means that we will not have the benefit of the orphan drug market exclusivity for this indication in the european union, and, as a result, will need to rely on our intellectual property rights and other exclusivity provisions. our european patents directed towards the composition of matter of lomitapide are scheduled to expire in 2016, and may additionally qualify for a supplemental certificate that would provide extended patent protection for up to five years after patent expiration upon marketing approval in the european union. in addition, lomitapide may qualify as a new chemical entity in the european union. in the european union, new chemical entities qualify for eight years of data exclusivity upon marketing authorization and an additional two years of market exclusivity. this data exclusivity, if granted, prevents regulatory authorities in the european union from assessing a generic application for eight years, after which generic marketing authorization can be submitted but not marketed for two years. see also “—if we do not obtain protection under the hatch-waxman amendments and similar foreign legislation by extending the patent terms and obtaining data exclusivity for our product candidates, our business may be materially harmed.” even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a product, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the product from competition because different drugs can be approved for the same condition. even after an orphan drug is approved, the fda can subsequently approve the same drug for the same condition if the fda concludes that the later drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. in june 2007, the fda instituted a partial clinical hold with respect to clinical trials of longer than six months duration for our product candidates. although the partial clinical hold was lifted with respect to lomitapide, it remains in effect with respect to implitapide. the fda’s concerns that resulted in this clinical hold may lead to a significant delay in the commencement of clinical trials by us or the failure of our product candidates to obtain marketing approval. in june 2007, we received notice from the fda of a partial clinical hold with respect to clinical trials of longer than six months duration for our product candidates. the fda issued such notices to all sponsors of mtp-is. at that time, the fda did not apply this partial clinical hold to our pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh. in connection with the partial clinical hold, the fda requested that we collect additional preclinical data to assess the risk for pulmonary phospholipidosis, with long-term use of these compounds. we understand that the fda has undertaken a broader initiative to understand phospholipidosis in those drugs commonly evidencing this phenomenon, typically characterized as cationic (positively charged) and lipophilic (soluble in lipids). mtp-is are both cationic and lipophilic. in connection with the partial clinical hold, the fda requested that we conduct a three month, repeat-dose rat toxicology study that included a recovery group and a sufficient number of active doses to establish the level of exposure at which there is no biologically or statistically significant increase in the frequency or severity of pulmonary phospholipidosis, which is commonly referred to as the no observable adverse effect level. the fda also requested an electron microscopy lung tissue analysis. we submitted the requested preclinical data for lomitapide in december 2008, and the fda removed the partial clinical hold with respect to this compound in february 2010. the partial clinical hold remains in effect with respect to implitapide. if we decide to advance the clinical development of implitapide, the additional preclinical studies requested by the fda may result in significant increases in estimated time and expense of obtaining fda approval for this product candidate. in addition, if we are not able to successfully complete the preclinical studies required by the fda, or otherwise satisfy the fda’s concerns related to pulmonary phospholipidosis, we could be delayed in, or prevented from, obtaining marketing approval of implitapide. furthermore, notwithstanding that the fda has removed the partial clinical hold with respect to lomitapide, if the fda has further or renewed concerns regarding pulmonary phospholipidosis, it could raise this issue as part of the nda review process for lomitapide, which could   37 table of contents delay or prevent marketing approval of lomitapide or result in adverse limitations in any approved labeling or on distribution and use of the product. recent federal legislation and actions by state and local governments may permit re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the united states, including foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the united states, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition. we may face competition in the united states for lomitapide or any other product candidate, if approved, from lower priced products from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. this risk may be particularly applicable to drugs such as lomitapide that are formulated for oral delivery and expected to command a premium price. the mma contains provisions that may change u.s. importation laws and expand pharmacists’ and wholesalers’ ability to import lower priced versions of an approved drug and competing products from canada, where there are government price controls. these changes to u.s. importation laws will not take effect unless and until the secretary of health and human services certifies that the changes will pose no additional risk to the public’s health and safety and will result in a significant reduction in the cost of products to consumers. the secretary of health and human services has not yet announced any plans to make this required certification. a number of federal legislative proposals have been made to implement the changes to the u.s. importation laws without any certification, and to broaden permissible imports in other ways. even if the changes do not take effect, and other changes are not enacted, imports from canada and elsewhere may continue to increase due to market and political forces, and the limited enforcement resources of the fda, u.s. customs and border protection and other government agencies. for example, pub. l. no. 111-83, which was signed into law in october 2009 and provides appropriations for the department of homeland security for the 2010 fiscal year, expressly prohibits u.s. customs and border protection from using funds to prevent individuals from importing from canada less than a 90-day supply of a prescription drug for personal use, when the drug otherwise complies with the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, or fdca. further, several states and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens, and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, we expect other states and local governments to launch importation efforts. the importation of foreign products that compete with lomitapide or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval could negatively impact our revenue and profitability, possibly materially. our market is subject to intense competition. if we are unable to compete effectively, lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our potential competitors include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies, academic institutions, government agencies and research institutions. all of these competitors currently engage in, have engaged in or may engage in the future in the development, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of new pharmaceuticals, some of which may compete with lomitapide or other product candidates. smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. key competitive factors affecting the commercial success of lomitapide and any other product candidates that we develop are likely to be efficacy, safety and tolerability profile, reliability, convenience of dosing, price and reimbursement. the market for lipid lowering therapeutics is large and competitive with many applicable drug classes. however, our products, if approved, will be unique in their mechanisms of action, providing efficacy not possible with the other approved drug products in this space, and will be, focused at least initially, on niche orphan markets where they will be used in combination with existing approved therapies, such as statins, to provide incremental efficacy in currently underserved patient populations. we believe that lomitapide will face distinct competition for the treatment of both hofh and fc. although there are no mtp-i compounds currently approved by the fda for the treatment of hyperlipidemia, we are aware of other mtp-i compounds in early stage clinical trials and other pharmaceutical companies that are developing the following potentially competitive product candidates:     •   hofh —isis pharmaceuticals, inc., or isis, is developing an antisense apob-100 inhibitor, mipomersen, as a weekly subcutaneous injection for lowering high cholesterol, ldl-c and apolipoprotein b and has completed four phase iii clinical trials for this product candidate. the fda has granted mipomersen   38 table of contents   orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with hofh. therefore, if mipomersen is approved by the fda, isis will be entitled to seven years of marketing exclusivity for such indication as to competitive products that are the same drug as mipomersen.     •   fc — in december 2009, amsterdam molecular therapeutics holding n.v., or amt, filed an application for marketing approval for glybera, an injectable gene therapy, with the ema for the treatment of patients with fc. amt has stated that it is expecting approval of this maa in 2011. this product candidate has been tested in a total of 27 patients in three different clinical trials. it would represent the first gene therapy approved in the european union. if we obtain marketing approval of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh in the united states and isis obtains marketing approval of mipomersen for the treatment of patients with hofh in the united states, lomitapide would compete in the same market with mipomersen. if isis obtains marketing approval of mipomersen for the treatment of patients with hofh in the united states prior to us, isis could obtain a significant competitive advantage associated with being the first to market. in connection with obtaining marketing approval for mipomersen, isis will also obtain orphan drug exclusivity for mipomersen, but we do not believe that isis’ obtaining orphan drug exclusivity for mipomersen prior to our receiving orphan drug exclusivity for lomitapide would have an adverse effect on our business as mipomersen and lomitapide are different drugs under fda rules and any exclusivity applicable to either drug will not apply to the other drug. thus, because mipomersen is a different drug than lomitapide, we could obtain both approval and orphan drug exclusivity for lomitapide even if isis has already obtained orphan drug exclusivity for mipomersen and isis could obtain both approval and orphan drug exclusivity for mipomersen even if we have already obtained orphan drug exclusivity for lomitapide. similarly, in the european union, notwithstanding the fact that the ema has granted lomitapide orphan drug designation for the treatment of fc, if a competitor subsequently obtains approval and market exclusivity for its orphan designated drug for the treatment of fc, our marketing application for fc would not be accepted and we would be excluded from the market only if lomitapide was a “similar medicinal product” to our competitor’s product. in the european union, a drug is a “similar medicinal product” if it contains a “similar active substance” or substances and is intended for the same therapeutic indication. a “similar active substance” is an identical active substance, or an active substance with the same principal molecular structural features and which acts via the same mechanism. we do not believe orphan drug exclusivity for mipomersen in the european union would have an adverse effect on our business because we do not believe that lomitapide would be considered a “similar medicinal product” to mipomersen. many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of drug candidates, obtaining fda and other regulatory approvals of products and the commercialization of those products. accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we may be in obtaining fda and other marketing approvals for drugs and achieving widespread market acceptance. our competitors’ drugs may be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than any drug we may commercialize and may render lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing the product. we anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs enter the market and advanced technologies become available. finally, the development of new treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could render lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop non-competitive or obsolete. we face potential product liability exposure, and, if claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability. the use of lomitapide or any other product candidate in clinical trials and the sale of lomitapide or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our products. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. in addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:     •   decreased demand for lomitapide or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval;     •   impairment of our business reputation and exposure to adverse publicity;   39 table of contents   •   increased warnings on product labels;     •   withdrawal of clinical trial participants;     •   costs of related litigation;     •   distraction of management’s attention from our primary business;     •   substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants;     •   loss of revenue; and     •   the inability to successfully commercialize lomitapide or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. we have obtained product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials with a $5.0 million annual aggregate coverage limit. however, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. if and when we obtain marketing approval for lomitapide or any other product candidate, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products; however, we may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms. on occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. the cost of any product liability litigation or other proceedings, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. a successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. a variety of risks associated with our planned international business relationships could materially adversely affect our business. we may enter into agreements with third parties for the development and commercialization of lomitapide or other product candidates in international markets. if we do so, we would be subject to additional risks related to entering into international business relationships, including:     •   differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries;     •   potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights;     •   the potential for so-called parallel importing, which is what happens when a local seller, faced with high or higher local prices, opts to import goods from a foreign market, with low or lower prices, rather than buying them locally;     •   unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;     •   economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;     •   compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees traveling abroad;     •   foreign taxes;     •   foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenue, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country;     •   workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states;     •   production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and     •   business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism, or natural disasters, including earthquakes, volcanoes, typhoons, floods, hurricanes and fires. these and other risks of international business relationships may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or sustain profitable operations.   40 table of contents our relationships with customers and payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings. healthcare providers, physicians and others play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any products for which we obtain marketing approval. our future arrangements with third-party payors and customers will expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products for which we obtain marketing approval. restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following:     •   the federal healthcare anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid.     •   the federal false claims act imposes criminal and civil penalties, including civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease, or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government.     •   the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information.     •   the federal false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services.     •   the federal transparency requirements under the health care reform law requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics, and medical supplies to report to the department of health and human services information related to physician payments and other transfers of value and physician ownership and investment interests.     •   analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws and transparency laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers, and some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures and drug pricing. efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations could be costly. it is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. if our operations, including anticipated activities conducted by our sales team, are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. if any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs. we lack experience in commercializing products, which may have an adverse effect on our business. we will need to transition from a company with a development focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities. we may not be successful in such a transition. we have not yet demonstrated an ability to   41 table of contents obtain marketing approval for or commercialize a product candidate. as a result, we may not be as successful as companies that have previously obtained marketing approval for drug candidates and commercially launched drugs. risks related to our intellectual property if our patent position does not adequately protect our product candidates, others could compete against us more directly, which would harm our business, possibly materially. as of march 15, 2011, our lomitapide patent portfolio consists of five issued u.s. patents and related issued patents in europe, canada, israel and japan, one pending u.s. non-provisional patent application and related pending applications in europe, australia, japan, canada, israel, south korea and new zealand, all of which have been licensed to us in a specific field. the issued u.s. patents are scheduled to expire between 2013 and 2019. the u.s. patent covering the composition of matter of lomitapide is scheduled to expire in 2015. the non-u.s. patents directed to lomitapide are scheduled to expire in 2016. as of march 15, 2011, our implitapide patent portfolio consists of four issued u.s. patents, two pending u.s. non-provisional applications, and related patents and pending applications in europe, australia, asia, africa, and south america. the issued u.s. patents are scheduled to expire between 2015 and 2017. the u.s. patent and non-u.s. patents covering the composition of matter of implitapide are scheduled to expire in 2015. we also have filed four non-provisional u.s. patent applications and two international applications directed to pharmaceutical combinations of a mtp-i, such as lomitapide or implitapide, and other cholesterol lowering drugs, and to methods of using such combinations in certain dosing regimens to reduce serum cholesterol or tg concentrations. our commercial success will depend significantly on our ability to obtain additional patents and protect our existing patent position as well as our ability to maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for our technologies, product candidates and any future products in the united states and other countries. if we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and ability to achieve profitability. our ability to use the patents and patent applications licensed to us and described above to protect our business will depend on our ability to comply with the terms of the applicable licenses and other agreements. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these countries. the patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies, product candidates and any future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that:     •   we will be able to successfully commercialize our products before some or all of our relevant patents expire;     •   we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications;     •   we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions;     •   others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;     •   any of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications will result in issued patents;     •   any of our or our licensors’ patents will be valid or enforceable;     •   any patents issued to us or our licensors and collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties;     •   we will develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable; or     •   the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business.   42 table of contents if we do not obtain protection under the hatch-waxman amendments and similar foreign legislation by extending the patent terms and obtaining data exclusivity for our product candidates, our business may be materially harmed. depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of fda marketing approval, if any, of lomitapide or implitapide, some of our u.s. patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the drug price competition and patent term restoration act of 1984, referred to as the hatch-waxman amendments. the hatch-waxman amendments permit a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the fda regulatory review process. our u.s. composition of matter patent for lomitapide is scheduled to expire in 2015, and we plan to seek patent term extension for this patent. in the future, we intend to apply for restorations of patent term for some of our other currently owned or licensed patents to add patent life beyond their current expiration dates, depending on the expected length of clinical trials and other factors involved in the filing of the relevant nda. however, we may not be granted an extension because of, for example, failing to apply within applicable deadlines, failing to apply prior to expiration of relevant patents or otherwise failing to satisfy applicable requirements. moreover, the applicable time period or the scope of patent protection afforded could be less than we request. if we are unable to obtain patent term extension or restoration or the term of any such extension is less than we request, our competitors may obtain approval of competing products following our patent expiration, and our revenue could be reduced, possibly materially. in addition, we believe that lomitapide and implitapide are new chemical entities in the united states and may be eligible for data exclusivity under the hatch-waxman amendments. a drug can be classified as a new chemical entity if the fda has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety. under sections 505(c)(3)(e)(ii) and 505(j)(5)(f)(ii) of the fdca, as amended, a new chemical entity that is granted marketing approval may, even in the absence of patent protections, be eligible for five years of data exclusivity in the united states following marketing approval, which period is reduced to four years if certain patents covering the new chemical entity or its method of use are challenged by a generic applicant. this data exclusivity, if granted, would preclude submission during the exclusivity period of 505(b)(2) applications or abbreviated new drug applications submitted by another company that references the new chemical entity application. in the european union, new chemical entities qualify for eight years of data exclusivity upon marketing authorization and an additional two years of market exclusivity. this data exclusivity, if granted, prevents regulatory authorities in the european union from assessing a generic application for eight years, after which generic marketing authorization can be submitted but not marketed for two years. however, our compounds may not be considered to be new chemical entities for these purposes or be entitled to the period of data exclusivity. if we are not able to gain or exploit the period of data exclusivity, we may face significant competitive threats to our commercialization of these compounds from other manufacturers, including the manufacturers of generic alternatives. further, even if our compounds are considered to be new chemical entities and we are able to gain the prescribed period of data exclusivity, another company nevertheless could also market another version of the drug if such company can complete a full nda with a complete human clinical trial process and obtain marketing approval of its product. if we are not able to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information, the value of our technology and products could be significantly diminished. we rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. however, trade secrets are difficult to protect. we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. these agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. in addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. for example, the fda, as part of its transparency initiative, currently is considering whether to make additional information publicly available on a routine basis, including information that we may consider to be trade secrets or other proprietary information, and it is not clear at the present time how the fda’s disclosure policies may change in the future, if at all. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. we may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may prevent or delay our product development efforts and stop us from commercializing or increase the costs of commercializing our products.   43 table of contents our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. there could be issued patents of which we are not aware that our products infringe. there also could be patents that we believe we do not infringe, but that we may ultimately be found to infringe. moreover, patent applications are in some cases maintained in secrecy until patents are issued. the publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications were filed. because patents can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products infringe. for example, pending applications may exist that provide support or can be amended to provide support for a claim that results in an issued patent that our product infringes. the pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. other parties may obtain patents in the future and allege that our products or the use of our technologies infringes these patent claims or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. likewise, third parties may challenge or infringe upon our existing or future patents. proceedings involving our patents or patent applications or those of others could result in adverse decisions regarding:     •   the patentability of our inventions relating to our product candidates; and     •   the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents relating to our product candidates. even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and divert management’s time and attention in pursuing these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. if we are unable to avoid infringing the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. patent litigation is costly and time consuming. we may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. in addition, if we do not obtain a license, develop or obtain non-infringing technology, fail to defend an infringement action successfully or have infringed patents declared invalid, we may:     •   incur substantial monetary damages;     •   encounter significant delays in bringing our product candidates to market; and     •   be precluded from manufacturing or selling our product candidates. in such event, our business could be adversely affected, possibly materially. if we fail to comply with our obligations in our license agreements for our product candidates, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. our existing license agreements impose, and we expect any future license agreements that we enter into will impose, various diligence, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. in addition, our license agreement with the trustees of the university of pennsylvania, or the trustees of upenn, limits the field of use for lomitapide as a monotherapy or in combination with other dyslipidemic therapies for treatment of patients with severe hypercholesterolemia unable to come within 15% of the national cholesterol education program, or ncep, ldl-c goal on maximal tolerated oral therapy, as determined by the patient’s prescribing physician, or with severe combined hyperlipidemia unable to come within 15% of the ncep non-high density lipoprotein cholesterol goal on maximal tolerated oral therapy, as determined by the patient’s prescribing physician, or with severe hypertriglyceridemia unable to reduce tg levels to less than 1,000 mg/dl on maximal tolerated therapy. if we fail to comply with the obligations and restrictions under our license agreements, including the limited field of use under our license agreement with the trustees of upenn, the applicable licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which case we might not be able to market any product that is covered by the licensed patents. any breach or termination of our license agreement with the trustees of upenn would have a particularly significant adverse effect on our business because of our reliance on the commercial success of lomitapide. although we intend to comply with the restrictions on field of use in our license agreement with the trustees of upenn by seeking product labels for lomitapide, if approved, that are consistent with the license field, we may still be subject to the risk of breaching the license agreement if we are deemed to be promoting or marketing lomitapide for an indication not covered by any product label that we are able to obtain. in addition, because this restriction on the field of use   44 table of contents limits the indications for which we can develop lomitapide, the commercial potential of lomitapide may not be as great as without this restriction. risks related to our dependence on third parties we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such clinical trials. we may become involved in commercial disputes with these parties. we do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials, and we rely on third parties such as cros, medical institutions, academic institutions, such as upenn, and clinical investigators to perform this function. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. however, if we sponsor clinical trials, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial, even if we use a cro. moreover, the fda requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they provide is compromised due to the failure to adhere to regulatory requirements or our clinical trial protocols, or for other reasons, our development programs may be extended, delayed or terminated, marketing approvals for lomitapide or any other product candidate may be delayed or denied, and we may be delayed or precluded in our efforts to successfully commercialize lomitapide for targeted indications or any other product candidate. in addition, we may from time to time become involved in commercial disputes with these third parties, for example regarding the quality of the services provided by these third parties or our ultimate liability to pay for services they purported to do on our behalf, or the value of such services. for example, in september 2010, a dispute arose with one of our third-party service providers regarding preliminary work they performed on our behalf related to a planned clinical trial for lomitapide in patients with hefh. although we do not expect that the ultimate resolution of this matter will be material to our financial position, cash flow or results of operations, we have not yet resolved this matter or agreed on the amount that we may ultimately pay. due to our reliance on third-party service providers, we may experience commercial disputes such as these in the future. in some cases, we may be required to pay for work that was not performed to our specifications or not utilized by us, and these obligations may be material. we do not have drug research or discovery capabilities, and will need to acquire or license existing drug compounds from third parties to expand our product candidate pipeline. both of our current product candidates have been licensed to us from third parties: lomitapide has been licensed to us by upenn and implitapide has been licensed to us by bayer healthcare ag. we currently have no drug research or discovery capabilities. accordingly, if we are to expand our product candidate pipeline beyond our two current drug candidates, we will need to acquire or license existing compounds from third parties. in addition, although we have the right to use implitapide for any indication, our right to use lomitapide is limited to specified patient populations, such as patients with hofh, severe hypercholesterolemia or severe hypertriglyceridemia. accordingly, if we wished to expand the development of lomitapide to address other indications, we would need to expand our license agreement with the trustees of upenn. we will face significant competition in seeking to acquire or license promising drug compounds. many of our competitors for such promising compounds may have significantly greater financial resources and more extensive experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products, and thus, may be a more attractive option to a potential licensor than us. if we are unable to acquire or license additional promising drug compounds, we will not be able to expand our product candidate pipeline. we currently depend on third-party manufacturers to produce our preclinical and clinical drug supplies and intend to rely upon third-party manufacturers to produce commercial supplies of lomitapide. this may increase   45 table of contents the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of lomitapide or such quantities at an acceptable cost, which could result in clinical development and commercialization of lomitapide being delayed, prevented or impaired. we currently have no manufacturing facilities and limited personnel with manufacturing experience. we rely on a contract manufacturer to produce lomitapide required for our clinical trials. we plan to continue to rely upon contract manufacturers and, potentially, collaboration partners to manufacture commercial quantities of lomitapide if and when approved for marketing by the applicable regulatory authorities. if we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing, or unable to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully complete development of lomitapide or market it. reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured lomitapide ourselves, including:     •   reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance;     •   the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; and     •   the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or damaging to us. in addition, the fda and other regulatory authorities require that product candidates be manufactured according to cgmp. any failure by our third-party manufacturers to comply with cgmp or failure to scale up our manufacturing processes could lead to a delay in, or failure to obtain, marketing approval of lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop. in addition, such failure could be the basis for action by the fda to withdraw approvals for product candidates previously granted to us and for other regulatory action, including seizure, injunction or other civil or criminal penalties. we currently rely on a single manufacturer for the preclinical and clinical supplies of lomitapide. we purchase these supplies from this manufacturer on a purchase order basis and do not have a long-term supply agreement in place. we also do not have agreements in place for redundant supply or second source for lomitapide. any performance failure on the part of our existing or future manufacturers could delay clinical development or marketing approval of lomitapide or commercialization of lomitapide. if for some reason our current contract manufacturer cannot perform as agreed, we may be required to replace that manufacturer. although we believe there are a number of potential replacements that could manufacture the clinical supply of lomitapide, we may incur added costs and delays in identifying and qualifying any such replacements. furthermore, although we generally do not begin a clinical trial unless we have a sufficient supply of a product candidate for the trial, any significant delay in the supply of a product candidate for an ongoing trial due to the need to replace a third-party manufacturer could delay completion of the trial. for example, in june 2007, we voluntarily halted a phase ii clinical trial of lomitapide because of suspected microbial contamination, which we believe resulted in patients experiencing gastrointestinal adverse events at a rate, severity and rapidity of onset inconsistent with prior clinical data for lomitapide. see “risk factors — risks associated with product development and commercialization — failures or delays in the commencement or completion of preclinical or clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay, prevent or limit our ability to generate revenue” for more information. if we receive marketing approval of lomitapide, we currently expect to continue to rely upon third-party manufacturers to produce commercial supplies of the product. accordingly, we will need to identify commercial- scale manufacturers, or our manufacturers of clinical supplies will need to increase their scale of production to meet our projected needs for commercial manufacturing. lomitapide and any other product candidate that we develop may compete with other products and product candidates for access to manufacturing facilities. there are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cgmp regulations and that are both capable of manufacturing for us and willing to do so. we may not be able to identify, or reach agreement with, commercial scale manufacturers on commercially reasonably terms, or at all. if we are unable to do so, we will need to develop our own commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities, which likely would: delay commercialization of lomitapide, if approved, possibly materially; require a capital investment by us that could be quite costly; and increase our operating expenses.   46 table of contents if our existing third-party manufacturers, or the third parties that we engage in the future to manufacture a product for commercial sale or for our clinical trials, should cease to continue to do so for any reason, we likely would experience delays in obtaining sufficient quantities for us to meet commercial demand or to advance our clinical trials while we identify and qualify replacement suppliers. if for any reason we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop or the drug substances used to manufacture it, it will be more difficult for us to develop lomitapide and compete effectively. in addition, if, following approval, if any, we are unable to assure a sufficient quantity of the drug for patients with rare diseases or conditions, we may lose any orphan drug exclusivity to which the product otherwise would be entitled. if we do not establish successful collaborations, we may have to alter our development plans. our drug development programs and potential commercialization of lomitapide will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. we may selectively seek to establish collaborations to reach patients with hofh or fc in geographies that we do not believe we can cost effectively address with our own sales and marketing capabilities. if we elect to develop lomitapide for broader patient populations, we would plan to do so selectively either on our own or by establishing alliances with one or more pharmaceutical company collaborators, depending on, among other things, the applicable indications, the related development costs and our available resources. if we determine to enter into these collaborations, we may do so in order to:     •   fund our research and development activities;     •   access manufacturing capabilities of third parties;     •   help us conduct clinical trials; and     •   successfully commercialize lomitapide, if approved. we face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and these collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate, document and implement. we may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. if that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular product candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. if we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. if we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring lomitapide to market and generate product revenue. if a collaborative partner terminates or fails to perform its obligations under an agreement with us, the development and commercialization of lomitapide could be delayed or terminated. we are not currently party to any collaborative arrangements. however, we plan to pursue such arrangements if we decide to develop lomitapide in broader patient populations. if we are successful in entering into collaborative arrangements and any of our collaborative partners does not devote sufficient time and resources to a collaboration arrangement with us, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, if any future collaboration partner were to breach or terminate its arrangements with us, the development and commercialization of the affected product candidate could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue development and commercialization of the product candidate on our own. much of the potential revenue from future collaborations may consist of contingent payments, such as payments for achieving development milestones and royalties payable on sales of drugs developed. the milestone and royalty revenue that we may receive under these collaborations will depend upon our collaborator’s ability to successfully develop, introduce, market and sell new products. in addition, collaborators may decide to enter into arrangements with third parties to commercialize products developed under collaborations using our technologies, which could reduce the milestone and royalty revenue that we may receive, if any. future collaboration partners may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products using our products or technologies because they:     •   decide not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints, such as limited personnel with the requisite scientific expertise, limited cash resources or specialized equipment limitations, or the   47 table of contents   belief that other drug development programs may have a higher likelihood of obtaining marketing approval or may potentially generate a greater return on investment;     •   decide to pursue other technologies or develop other product candidates, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, to treat the same diseases targeted by our own collaborative programs;     •   do not have sufficient resources necessary to carry the product candidate through clinical development, marketing approval and commercialization; or cannot obtain the necessary marketing approvals. competition may negatively impact a partner’s focus on and commitment to our product candidate and, as a result, could delay or otherwise negatively affect the commercialization of our product candidate. if future collaboration partners fail to develop or effectively commercialize lomitapide or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval for any of these reasons, we may not be able to replace the collaboration partner with another partner to develop and commercialize the product candidate under the terms of the collaboration. we may also be unable to obtain, on terms acceptable to us, a license from such collaboration partner to any of its intellectual property that may be necessary or useful for us to continue to develop and commercialize a product candidate. risks related to employee matters and managing growth our future success depends on our ability to hire and retain our key executives and to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. we are highly dependent on marc beer, our chief executive officer, and william h. lewis, our president, and the other principal members of our executive and scientific teams. we have entered into employment agreements with certain members of our executive and scientific teams, but any employee may terminate his or her employment with us at any time. we do not maintain “key man” life insurance for any of our employees. the loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives. we expect to continue hiring qualified scientific personnel. recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel and possibly sales and marketing personnel will be critical to our success. we may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. we also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. failure to succeed in clinical trials may make it more challenging to recruit and retain qualified scientific personnel. in addition, as a result of becoming a public company, we will need to establish and maintain effective disclosure and financial controls and make changes in our corporate governance practices. we will need to hire additional accounting and financial personnel with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, and it may be difficult to recruit and maintain such personnel. in addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our development and commercialization strategy. our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. we will need to grow our organization, and we may encounter difficulties in managing this growth, which could disrupt our operations. we currently have only sixteen employees, and we expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations. to manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. also, our management may need to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel, which may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among   48 table of contents remaining employees. the physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of lomitapide. if our management is unable to effectively manage our expected growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our ability to generate or increase our revenue could be reduced and we may not be able to implement our business strategy. our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize lomitapide and compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth. risks related to our financial position and capital requirements we have incurred significant operating losses since our inception, and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. we are a development stage company with a limited operating history. to date, we have primarily focused on developing our lead compound, lomitapide. we have funded our operations to date primarily through proceeds from the private placement of convertible preferred stock, convertible debt, venture debt and the proceeds from our initial public offering. we have incurred losses in each year since our inception in february 2005. our net losses were approximately $25.0 million, $12.2 million and $14.3 million for the periods ended december 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. as of december 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $91.0 million. substantially all of our operating losses resulted from costs incurred in connection with our development programs and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. the losses we have incurred to date, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. we expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh and our planned pediatric clinical trial to evaluate lomitapide for the treatment of pediatric and adolescent patients (> 7 to < 18 years of age) with hofh, phase ii/iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of adult patients with fc and other potential studies or clinical trials of lomitapide. in addition, if we obtain marketing approval for lomitapide, we will likely incur significant sales, marketing, in-licensing and outsourced manufacturing expenses, as well as continued research and development expenses. in addition, we expect to incur additional costs associated with operating as a public company. as a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. we have not generated any revenue from lomitapide or any other product candidate and may never be profitable. our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue. to date, we have not generated any revenue from our development stage product candidates, including our lead compound, lomitapide, and we do not know when, or if, we will generate any revenue. we do not expect to generate significant revenue unless or until we obtain marketing approval of, and commercialize, lomitapide. our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to:     •   obtain favorable results from and progress the clinical development of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh, including successful completion of our ongoing pivotal phase iii clinical trial for this indication;     •   develop and obtain regulatory approval for a protocol for a pediatric clinical trial to evaluate lomitapide for treatment of pediatric and adolescent patients (> 7 to < 18 years of age) with hofh;     •   develop and obtain regulatory approval for a protocol for a phase ii/iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of adult patients with fc;     •   subject to successful completion of the pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh, apply for and obtain marketing approval;     •   contract for the manufacture of commercial quantities of lomitapide at acceptable cost levels if marketing approval is received; and   49 table of contents   •   establish sales and marketing capabilities to effectively market and sell lomitapide in the united states and the european union. even if lomitapide is approved for commercial sale in one or both of the initial indications that we are pursuing, it may not gain market acceptance or achieve commercial success. in addition, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing any approved product. we may not achieve profitability soon after generating product revenue, if ever. if we are unable to generate product revenue, we will not become profitable and may be unable to continue operations without continued funding. we may need substantial additional capital in the future. if additional capital is not available, we will have to delay, reduce or cease operations. we may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and to develop and commercialize lomitapide. our future capital requirements may be substantial and will depend on many factors including:     •   the results of our ongoing pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh;     •   the cost, timing and outcomes of seeking marketing approval of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh in the united states and the european union;     •   our ability to develop and obtain regulatory approval for a protocol for a pediatric clinical trial to evaluate lomitapide for treatment of pediatric and adolescent patients (> 7 to < 18 years of age) with hofh;     •   our ability to develop and obtain regulatory approval for a protocol for a phase ii/iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of adult patients with fc;     •   if regulatory approval for the phase ii/iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of adult patients with fc is obtained, the cost and timing associated with conducting such clinical trial;     •   the cost of filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims;     •   exploration and possible label expansion of lomitapide in broader patient populations;     •   the costs associated with commercializing lomitapide if we receive marketing approval, including the cost and timing of establishing sales and marketing capabilities to market and sell lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh; and     •   subject to receipt of marketing approval, revenue received from sales of approved products, if any, in the future. based on our current operating plan, we expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to enable us to maintain our currently planned operations, including our continued product development, at least through the first half of 2012. however, changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate. we have no committed external sources of funds. additional financing may not be available when we need it or may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. in addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations, even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. if adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, or at all, we may be required to:     •   terminate or delay clinical trials or other development activities for lomitapide for one or more indications for which we are developing lomitapide, in particular any clinical trial we initiate for the treatment of patients with fc; or     •   delay our establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities that may be necessary to commercialize lomitapide, if we obtain marketing approval. raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights. we may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings and collaborations and strategic and licensing arrangements. to the extent that we raise additional capital through   50 table of contents the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a stockholder. debt financing, if available, would result in increased fixed payment obligations and may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. if we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. we were incorporated in february 2005. our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company and conducting product development activities, primarily for lomitapide. consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history and experience in generating revenue. in addition, as a relatively young business, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other known and unknown factors. risks related to the securities markets and investment in our common stock the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. the trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:     •   plans for, progress in and results from clinical trials of our product candidates generally;     •   the results of our ongoing pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh;     •   the initiation and results of our planned phase ii/iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of adult patients with fc;     •   the timing of regulatory filings related to these indications;     •   announcements of new products, services or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors;     •   failure of lomitapide, if approved, to achieve commercial success;     •   fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies;     •   general market conditions and overall fluctuations in u.s. equity markets;     •   variations in our quarterly operating results;     •   changes in our financial guidance or securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance;     •   changes in accounting principles;     •   sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders;     •   additions or departures of key personnel;     •   success or failure of products within our therapeutic area of focus;     •   discussion of us or our stock price by the financial press and in online investor communities; and     •   other risks and uncertainties described in these risk factors. in addition, the stock market in general, and the market for small pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition.   51 table of contents anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. these provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to obtain greater value for stockholders by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer rejected by our board were considered beneficial by some stockholders. in addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. we have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. we currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. therefore, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. there is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. item 1b. unresolved