item 1a. risk factors risks associated with product development and commercialization we currently depend entirely on the success of our lead compound, lomitapide. we may not receive marketing approval for, or successfully commercialize, lomitapide for any indication. we have no drug products for sale currently. our business currently depends entirely on the successful development and commercialization of our product candidate, lomitapide. we have submitted an nda and maa for approval to market lomitapide in the united states and european union, as an adjunct to a low-fat diet and other lipid-lowering therapies, to reduce cholesterol in patients with hofh. the fda will evaluate the application within the first 60 days of its receipt to determine if it is sufficiently complete to accept the filing for a full review. the fda has informed us that the nda, if accepted, will be subject to standard review. there is no guarantee that the filing will be accepted. we have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain marketing approval for any product candidate. we are not permitted to market lomitapide or any other product candidate in the united states until we receive approval of an nda from the fda, or in any foreign countries until we receive the requisite approval from such countries. obtaining approval of an nda or maa or any other filing for approval in a foreign country, is an extensive, lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and the fda or other regulatory authority may reject a filing or delay, limit or deny approval of lomitapide for many reasons, including:     •   we may not be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the fda and regulatory authorities outside the united states that lomitapide is safe and effective for any indication;     •   the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance or clinical significance required by the fda and regulatory authorities outside the united states for approval;     •   the fda or regulatory authorities outside the united states may disagree with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of our clinical trials; may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to demonstrate that lomitapide’s clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; or may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials and require that we conduct one or more additional trials;     •   the fda or regulatory authorities outside the united states may not accept data generated at our clinical trial sites;     •   the fda may have difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting in a timely manner or the advisory committee may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the fda require, as a condition of approval, additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions;     •   the fda or regulatory authorities outside the united states may require additional preclinical or clinical studies or other data prior to granting approval, and we may not be able to generate the required data on a timely basis if at all;     •   the fda or regulatory authorities outside the united states may impose limitations on approved labeling of lomitapide, such as requiring genotyping or otherwise narrowing the diagnosis criteria for hofh thus limiting intended users;     •   the fda may require a more onerous rems plan than we have proposed, as a condition of approval, or may otherwise disagree with the company’s proposals to address risk mitigation and management;     •   the fda or ema may identify deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or in the facilities of our third party contract manufacturers, or may require us to manufacture additional registration batches or change our process or specifications;     •   we may not be able to validate our manufacturing process to the satisfaction of the fda or ema, or the fda may not agree with our plan for concurrent validation; or     •   the fda or regulatory authorities outside the united states may change approval policies or adopt new regulations.   31 table of contents in particular, it is possible that the fda or ema may not consider the 56-week results of our 78-week single-arm, dose titration, open-label pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide in patients with hofh to be sufficient for approval of lomitapide for this indication, or may not consider ldl-c lowering alone sufficient for approval without a showing of clinical outcome. for example, because the fda normally requires two pivotal clinical trials to approve an nda, the fda may require that we conduct a second phase iii clinical trial if the fda does not find the results of our pivotal phase iii trial to be sufficiently persuasive. although the fda and ema have informed us that they are not opposed to our submitting an nda and ema based on the 56-week results of our 78-week phase iii clinical trial, it is possible that, the fda or ema may require us to include the 78-week data or conduct a second phase iii clinical trial, possibly using a different design. while the 78-week data were consistent with the 56-week data, a requirement to include the 78-week data in amendments to the nda or maa prior to approval would result in a delay in approval. if the fda or ema requires additional studies or trials, we would incur increased costs and delays in the marketing approval process, and may require us to expend more resources than we have available. we are seeking marketing approval for lomitapide for the treatment of hofh based on achieving surrogate endpoints in pivotal clinical testing, as opposed to demonstrating improved clinical outcomes. the absence of outcome data may limit market acceptance by physicians and patients of lomitapide, if approved. finally, any final labeling may be approved with limitations. for example, the fda has stated that an hofh definition of patients with average fasting ldl-c greater than 300 mg/dl on maximally tolerated lipid lowering therapy closely resembles the severe refractory heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia population. the fda may require a narrow diagnosis criteria for hofh which may reduce the addressable population. as a result, some of the patients who meet the definition of hofh may ultimately be considered to be outside the hofh population, reducing the estimated addressable patients, and it may be more difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. we expect the fda will require an advisory committee to review and render an opinion on the nda, which may be negative or may delay approval or limit lomitapide’s marketability and may confirm the fda’s concerns, if any, or raise new concerns. the fda has informed us that they expect to review the nda for lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh at an fda advisory committee meeting. the fda is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, which is composed of clinicians, statisticians and other experts, but it generally follows such recommendations. the fda may have difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting in a timely manner or the advisory committee may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the fda require, as a condition of approval, additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions. this may delay and increase the cost of the review process. any delay in obtaining, or an inability to obtain, marketing approval could prevent us from commercializing lomitapide, generating revenue and achieving profitability. in earlier preclinical studies and clinical trials, lomitapide was associated with undesirable side effects, such as adverse gastrointestinal events, elevated liver enzymes and increases in mean hepatic fat levels. patients in our pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh have also experienced such undesirable side effects. lomitapide may continue to cause such side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent its marketing approval or result in adverse limitations in any approved labeling or on distribution and use of the product. undesirable side effects caused by lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop could cause us, regulatory authorities or institutional review boards to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the delay or denial of marketing approval by the fda or other regulatory authorities. in earlier studies conducted by us, researchers at the university of pennsylvania, and bms, lomitapide was associated with undesirable side effects. we have also observed some of these side effects to a lesser extent in our pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh.   32 table of contents for example, in early phase i and phase ii clinical trials of lomitapide conducted by bms and the university of pennsylvania, doses between 25 mg and 100 mg were associated with a very high rate of gastrointestinal adverse events, such as diarrhea, nausea and vomiting. although we believe that the high rate of discontinuations in these early phase i and phase ii clinical trials due to gastrointestinal adverse events resulted primarily from the failure to employ a dose escalation regimen, which is the gradual increase in dosing over time to allow the body to adapt to the impact of a higher dose, within the setting of a rigorous low-fat diet, this may not be the case. patients in our pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh, where dose escalation has been employed, have also experienced adverse gastrointestinal events, but to a lesser extent than those experienced in earlier clinical trials. even if lomitapide gains marketing approval, if marketing experience or future clinical trials demonstrate an increased risk of gastrointestinal side effects, lomitapide may not gain market acceptance over other drugs approved for the treatment of the same indications that do not have such side effects, and could be subject to adverse regulatory action by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities. a subset of patients in earlier phase i and phase ii clinical trials of lomitapide experienced increased levels of liver enzymes alanine transaminase, or alt, and/or aspartate transaminase, or ast, an indicator of liver cell damage and, in some cases, liver toxicity. increases in liver enzymes observed in these earlier clinical trials were typically greater with higher doses of lomitapide, but occurred in some cases at lower doses. for example, in a phase ii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh, clinically significant elevations in alt, either alone or in combination with ast, were observed in three of six patients. in one patient, the dose of lomitapide was temporarily reduced per protocol, after which the transaminases returned to lower levels. the patient subsequently was able to resume the earlier, higher dose and continue to be escalated to the maximum dose. in the other two patients, transient elevations in alt or alt and ast returned to lower levels with continued treatment. in our pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh, four patients experienced alt and/or ast elevations of between five and eleven times the upper limit of normal. of these four patients, three underwent a temporary dose reduction, and maintained study drug at a stable dose. one patient discontinued treatment for a period of seven weeks, after which time treatment was reinstated, and the patient was able to maintain a stable dose and complete the trial per protocol. no patients were removed from the 78-week trial due to liver function test elevations. a subset of patients in earlier phase i and phase ii clinical trials of lomitapide also experienced increases in mean hepatic fat levels. although increases in hepatic fat in earlier clinical trials were typically greater with higher doses of lomitapide, increases also occurred in some cases at lower doses. for example, in a completed 12 week phase ii clinical trial of lomitapide, mean hepatic fat levels increased from week zero to week four, but then plateaued. in our pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh, 22 patients who had hepatic fat measurements taken experienced an increase in hepatic fat from a mean of 1.0% to 9.0% at 26 weeks of treatment. of the 23 patients that completed 78 weeks of treatment, 21 patients had hepatic fat measurements available. these 21 patients had a mean hepatic fat level of 7.3% at 56 weeks, and 8.2% at 78 weeks. the threshold for mild steatosis, a condition of hepatic fat accumulation, is in the range of 5 to 6% fat. some studies suggest that patients who have hepatic steatosis that results from pre-existing conditions, such as obesity and type 2 diabetes, may be at an increased risk for more severe long-term liver consequences, such as hepatic inflammation and fibrosis. however, the consequences of hepatic steatosis that results from other factors, are unclear. if lomitapide is approved, and marketing experience or future clinical trials demonstrate hepatic fat accumulation, significantly elevated liver enzymes or other liver related side effects, lomitapide may not gain market acceptance over other drugs approved for the treatment of the same indications that do not have such side effects, and could be subject to adverse regulatory action by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities. in a 104-week dietary carcinogenicity study of lomitapide in mice, significantly increased incidences of tumors in the small intestine and liver were observed. the relationship of these findings in mice is uncertain with regard to human safety because they did not occur in a dose-related manner, and liver tumors are common spontaneous findings in the strain of mice used in this study. in a 104-week oral carcinogenicity study of   33 table of contents lomitapide in rats, there were no statistically significant increases in incidences of carcinoma. we submitted the results of both studies to the fda in march 2011. although the clinical significance of the findings in mice and rats is unknown, marketing approval could be delayed, limited, or prevented as a result of these carcinogenicity data or carcinogenicity data from ongoing clinical trials. even if lomitapide is approved, if marketing experience or future preclinical studies or clinical trials demonstrate potential carcinogenicity, lomitapide may not gain market acceptance over other drugs approved for the treatment of the same indications that do not have such side effects, and could be subject to adverse regulatory action by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities. even if lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop receives marketing approval, we or others may later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product, and in that event a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:     •   regulatory authorities may suspend or withdraw their approval of the product;     •   regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as warnings or contraindications or distribution and use restrictions;     •   regulatory authorities may require us to issue specific communications to healthcare professionals, such as “dear doctor” letters;     •   regulatory authorities may issue negative publicity regarding the affected product, including safety communications;     •   we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials or restrict the distribution or use of the product;     •   we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and     •   our reputation may suffer. any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product candidate, and could substantially increase commercialization costs. we do not have a significant amount of manufacturing experience with lomitapide, and on-going validation and refinement of manufacturing processes could result in delays in regulatory approval or launch. given the rare nature of hofh, we have not had to manufacture a significant amount of lomitapide drug substance for our clinical trials. as a result, we have only limited experience with the manufacturing process which was transferred to us from bms during phase ii development. in producing our registration batches and in refining our commercial manufacturing process, we have tightened specifications for drug substance such that, if the fda approves the specifications, the commercial drug substance will differ from the material used in the pivotal trial and from certain of our registration batches in certain physical parameters and specifications that we do not believe are clinically meaningful. the fda and ema may not agree with our assessment as to the nature of the changes, and may require us to change our specifications or to conduct bioequivalency studies. there is also the possibility that the fda may require that we produce additional registration batches or that the fda or ema may require that additional manufacturing work be completed prior to approval, or may, in the course of inspection of manufacturing facilities, identify issues required to be resolved prior to approval. any of these events, if they were to occur, might delay approval of lomitapide or result in significant additional expenses. there is no guarantee we will be able to satisfy the requirements of the fda or ema. we will have to manufacture three consecutive lots of drug substance and drug product that meet certain validation criteria, including a requirement that the product have been manufactured in accordance with cgmp, in order to validate our manufacturing process. if any of our validation batches fails, or if the fda or ema does not agree with our specifications, we may have to manufacture additional validation batches which may, depending on the timing of such events if they were to occur, result in a delay in having product available for commercial distribution, if lomitapide is approved, and we may incur significant additional costs in connection with such activities. in light of the fda’s designation of our nda for standard review, our goal is to be in a   34 table of contents position to complete all three validation batches prior to nda approval. we may not be successful in this effort. we have proposed to the fda a validation plan for our manufacturing process which would give us the option to conduct concurrent validation which permits the concurrent release and commercial distribution, once lomitapide is approved, of each successful validation batch once completed. the fda may not agree with our validation plan, and, even if our nda is approved, may require us to wait to distribute product commercially until all three successful consecutive validation batches have been completed. any delay or hurdle in our validation work may delay approval or the availability of product for launch, and may result in additional expense. the numbers of patients suffering from hofh and fc are small, and have not been established with precision. if the actual number of patients with either of these conditions is smaller than we estimate or if any approval that we obtain is based on a narrower definition of these patient populations, our revenue and ability to achieve profitability will be adversely affected, possibly materially. there is no patient registry or other method of establishing with precision the actual number of patients with hofh in any geography. medical literature has historically reported the prevalence rate of genotypic hofh as one person in a million. however, we believe that many physicians use a broader definition of hofh that includes patients diagnosed through phenotypic criteria. in 2010, we commissioned lek to prepare a commercial assessment of the hofh and fc markets for us. in its report, lek estimated that the total number of patients likely to seek treatment with symptoms consistent with hofh in each of the united states and, collectively germany, the united kingdom, france, italy, and spain, which we refer to as the european union five, is approximately 3,000 patients, or a combined total of approximately 6,000 patients. lek’s estimates, however, include severe hefh patients whose levels of ldl-c are not controlled by current therapies. these patients may be phenotypically indistinct from hofh patients. the indication in the proposed label included in our nda for lomitapide is hofh. the total addressable market opportunity for lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh will ultimately depend upon, among other things, the diagnosis criteria, if any, included in the final label for lomitapide, if it is approved, acceptance by the medical community, patient access, product pricing, and reimbursement. these same issues apply to the total number of patients with fc. if the actual number of hofh or fc patients is lower than we believe or if any approval that we obtain is based on a narrower definition of these patient populations, then the potential markets for lomitapide for these indications will be smaller than we anticipate. for example, the fda has stated that a hofh definition of patients with average fasting ldl-c greater than 300 mg/dl on maximally tolerated lipid lowering therapy closely resembles the severe refractory heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia population. as a result, some of the patients who meet this definition may ultimately be considered to be outside the hofh population, reducing the estimated addressable patients, and, as a result, it may be more difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. in addition, we are currently seeking approval of lomitapide initially for the treatment of patients with hofh who are 18 years of age or older. to support approval for younger patients, we plan to initiate a phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of pediatric and adolescent patients (> 8 to < 18 years of age) with hofh in 2013, but we do not expect to submit a supplemental nda to expand our labeling to include this patient population prior to 2015. as a result, any fda approval would, at least initially, be limited to use for treating adult patients with lomitapide. this will limit our initial product revenue and may make it more difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. we expect that our approach regarding approval for the treatment of patients with fc also will involve initially seeking marketing approval solely for the adult patient population. we may not obtain an atu, or obtaining an atu may adversely affect our ability to set market prices outside of france, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. we have submitted information and data in support of use of lomitapide in france under a nominative atu. the french health products safety agency, or ansm, allows the use of a drug in france before it has obtained marketing approval in order to treat serious or rare diseases for which no other treatment is available in france. nominative atus are granted by ansm, on a patient-by-patient basis, upon a specific request from a   35 table of contents physician. obtaining approval of an atu from ansm, requires satisfying a number of conditions and involves a lengthy and complicated application process that begins with a specific application from a physician on behalf of a named patient. we will need to demonstrate, among other things, the following:     •   lomitapide treats a serious or rare pathology;     •   other suitable treatments for such a pathology are not available in france; and     •   the benefit of lomitapide outweighs the risk. though we believe lomitapide qualifies under the atu’s requirements, the ansm may not agree that any or all of these conditions are satisfied. specifically, ansm may determine that apheresis or the drug zocor are suitable treatments for hofh, both of which are now available in france. ansm may find the data from our pivotal phase iii clinical trial less compelling than data from a clinical trial conducted in france. even if ansm were to grant a nominative atu for lomitapide, ansm may suspend, withdraw or modify the terms of the atu for reasons of public health or if the conditions leading to the granting of the atu change. if ansm grants an atu for lomitapide, a price level will be negotiated with the french authorities. such negotiations may not result in a price acceptable to us, in which case we may elect not to pursue distribution of lomitapide under the atu. further, any negotiated price may adversely affect the market prices in other countries or jurisdictions where we may sell lomitapide if it is lower than the price that would have otherwise been set in such geographies. the on-going sovereign debt crisis in the european union and other macroeconomic issues in france may adversely affect the likelihood of ansm granting an atu for lomitapide, and the negotiation of an acceptable price level with the french authorities. we may not be able to generate enough revenue to cover our operating costs due to pricing or demand issues for lomitapide. in 2007, the fda granted lomitapide “orphan drug” status for the treatment of hofh. “orphan drug” designation is generally given to drugs that treat a rare disease or condition, defined, in part, as a patient population of fewer than 200,000 in the united states. there is no patient registry or other method of establishing with precision the actual number of patients with hofh in any geography. medical literature has historically reported the prevalence rate of genotypic hofh as one person in a million. we believe that many physicians use a broader definition of hofh that includes patients diagnosed through phenotypic criteria. in a report that we commissioned, lek estimated that the total number of patients with symptoms consistent with hofh in each of the united states and the european union five is approximately 3,000 patients, or a combined total of approximately 6,000 patients. lek’s estimates, however, include severe hefh patients whose levels of ldl-c are not controlled by current therapies. these patients may be phenotypically indistinct from hofh patients. the indication in the proposed label included in our nda for lomitapide is hofh. the fda or ema may define the hofh population in ways that further narrow the patient population, including by requiring genetic testing. the total addressable market opportunity for lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh will ultimately depend upon, among other things, the diagnosis criteria included in the final label for lomitapide, if it is approved, acceptance by the medical community, patient access, product pricing, and reimbursement. regardless, with such a small potential patient market, we will need to set and charge a price for lomitapide that is significantly higher than that of most pharmaceuticals in order to generate enough revenue to fund our operating costs. the on-going sovereign debt crisis and the macroeconomic climate in the european union may adversely affect our ability to set and charge a sufficiently high price to generate revenue in that market. if our estimate regarding the number of patients in the united states or the european union is too high, or if our estimates about the achievable per-dose price for lomitapide are too high, or if reimbursement is not available or available only to limited levels, we may not be able to generate revenue and meet our operating costs in the timeframe that we expect, or at all.   36 table of contents failures or delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay, prevent or limit our ability to generate revenue failures or delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing in fc could significantly affect our product development costs and delay, prevent or limit our ability to generate revenue. we do not know whether clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. we do not know whether the fda or the ema will accept our trial design for the fc trial as being sufficient for a phase iii trial. if we commence the trial, we may face competition in attracting patients to participate as a result of the clinical trial in htg patients being conducted by novartis. the commencement and completion of clinical trials may also be delayed or prevented for a number of other reasons, including:     •   difficulties obtaining regulatory clearance to commence a clinical trial or complying with conditions imposed by a regulatory authority regarding the scope or term of a clinical trial;     •   delays in reaching or failing to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or cros, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different cros and trial sites;     •   insufficient or inadequate supply or quality of a product candidate or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials, or other manufacturing issues;     •   difficulties obtaining institutional review board, or irb, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site;     •   challenges recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including size and nature of patient population, proximity of patients to clinical sites, eligibility criteria for the trial, nature of trial protocol, the availability of approved effective treatments for the relevant disease and competition from other clinical trial programs for similar indications;     •   severe or unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by patients in a clinical trial; and     •   difficulties retaining patients who have enrolled in a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to rigors of the trials, lack of efficacy, side effects or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up. clinical trials may also be delayed or terminated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. in addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the fda, the irbs at the sites where the irbs are overseeing a trial, or a data safety monitoring board overseeing the clinical trial at issue, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:     •   failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols;     •   inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the fda or other regulatory authorities;   37 table of contents   •   unforeseen safety issues or lack of effectiveness; and     •   lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. recently enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop and affect the prices we may obtain. in the united states and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval for lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell lomitapide or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. we are not sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the fda regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of lomitapide, if any, may be. in addition, increased scrutiny by the u.s. congress of the fda’s approval process may significantly delay or prevent marketing approval, as well as subject us to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements. in the united states, the medicare prescription drug, improvement, and modernization act of 2003, or the mma, changed the way medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. the legislation expanded medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for drugs. in addition, this legislation authorized medicare part d prescription drug plans to use formularies where they can limit the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. as a result of this legislation and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, we expect that there will be additional pressure to contain and reduce costs. these cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products, and could seriously harm our business. while the mma applies only to drug benefits for medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the mma may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. more recently, in march 2010, president obama signed into law the health care reform law, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. effective october 1, 2010, the health care reform law revised the definition of “average manufacturer price” for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of medicaid drug rebates to states. further, beginning in 2011, the new law imposed a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. we do not know the full effects that the health care reform law will have on our commercialization efforts, if lomitapide is approved. although it is too early to determine the effect of the health care reform law, the law appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. even if lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop receives marketing approval, we will continue to face extensive regulatory requirements and the product may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. even if marketing approval is obtained, a regulatory authority may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indications, conditions for use, distribution or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for   38 table of contents potentially costly post-market surveillance, post-approval studies or clinical trials. for example, any labeling ultimately approved by the fda for lomitapide, if it is approved for marketing, may include restrictions on use, such as limitations on how hofh is defined and diagnosed or limiting lomitapide to second-line therapy. in addition, the labeling may include restrictions based upon evidence of hepatic fat accumulation, liver function test elevations, gastrointestinal distress, phospholipidosis or carcinogenicity. lomitapide will also be subject to ongoing fda requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, distribution, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-market information, including adverse events, and any changes to the approved product, product labeling, or manufacturing process. the fda has significant post-market authority, including, for example, the authority to require labeling changes based on new safety information, and to require post-market studies or clinical trials to evaluate serious safety risks related to the use of a drug. in addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the fda and other regulatory authorities for compliance with current good manufacturing practice, or cgmp, and other regulations. we have included a proposal for a rems program and a patient registry as part of our nda submission for lomitapide in the treatment of hofh. the fda has the authority to require a more stringent rems plan or patient registry as part of an nda or after approval. in particular, the fda may require that the rems plan address the fda’s concern that lomitapide not be used in broader patient populations with less severely elevated lipid levels because of the potentially different risk/benefit profile of the drug. the fda has stated that an hofh definition of patients with average fasting ldl-c greater than 300 mg/dl on maximally tolerated lipid lowering therapy closely resembles the severe refractory heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia population. if we, our drug products or the manufacturing facilities for our drug products fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may:     •   issue warning letters or untitled letters;     •   seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines;     •   suspend or withdraw marketing approval;     •   suspend any ongoing clinical trials;     •   refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications submitted by us;     •   suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements;     •   seize or detain products, refuse to permit the import or export of products or request that we initiate a product recall; or     •   refuse to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. even if lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop receives marketing approval in the united states, we may never receive approval or commercialize lomitapide or any other product candidate outside of the united states. in order to market any product outside of the united states, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials and commercial sales, pricing and distribution of the product. approval procedures vary among countries, and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. the time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain fda approval. the marketing approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding fda approval in the united states as well as other risks. in particular, in many countries outside the united states, it is required that a product receives pricing and reimbursement approval before the product can be commercialized. this can result in substantial delays in such countries.   39 table of contents marketing approval in one country does not ensure marketing approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining marketing approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. failure to obtain marketing approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval would impair our ability to develop foreign markets for lomitapide. similarly, any significant differences between the requirements imposed by the fda and ema with respect to regulatory approval of lomitapide might delay approval or launch in the united states and the european union. this would reduce our target market and limit the full commercial potential of lomitapide. many countries are undertaking cost-containment measures that could affect pricing or reimbursement of a product. if we receive marketing approval for lomitapide or any other product candidate, our sales will be limited unless the product achieves broad market acceptance for these indications. the commercial success of lomitapide and any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval from the fda or other regulatory authorities will depend upon the acceptance of the product by the medical community, including physicians, patients and healthcare payors. the degree of market acceptance of any approved product will depend on a number of factors, including:     •   limitations or warnings contained in the product’s approved labeling;     •   distribution and use restrictions imposed by the fda or agreed to by us as part of a rems plan or other risk management plan;     •   demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy compared to other products;     •   the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects;     •   the relative convenience and ease of administration;     •   availability of alternative treatments, including, in the case of lomitapide, a number of competitive products already approved for the treatment of hyperlipidemia or expected to be commercially launched in the near future;     •   pricing and cost effectiveness;     •   the effectiveness of our or any future collaborators’ sales and marketing strategies;     •   our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement; and     •   the willingness of patients to pay out of pocket in the absence of third-party coverage. we are seeking marketing approval for lomitapide for the treatment of hofh based on achieving surrogate endpoints in pivotal clinical testing, as opposed to demonstrating improved clinical outcomes. the absence of outcome data on lomitapide, if approved, may limit market acceptance by physicians, patients and third party payors. if lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop is approved, but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from the product, and we may not become or remain profitable. in addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of the product may require significant resources, and may never be successful. the fda and other regulatory agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses. if we are found to have promoted off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. the fda and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. in particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the fda or such other regulatory agencies as reflected in the product’s approved labeling. in particular, any labeling approved by the fda for lomitapide may include restrictions on use, such as limitations on how hofh is defined and diagnosed or limiting lomitapide to second-line therapy. the fda may impose further requirements or   40 table of contents restrictions on the distribution or use of lomitapide as part of a rems plan. we have included a proposal for a rems program as part of our nda submission for lomitapide in the treatment of hofh. if we receive marketing approval for lomitapide, physicians may nevertheless prescribe lomitapide to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label. if we are found to have promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. the federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. the fda has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed. it will be difficult for us to profitably sell lomitapide or any other product for which we obtain marketing approval if reimbursement for the product is limited. market acceptance and sales of lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop will depend on reimbursement policies and may be affected by healthcare reform measures. government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. a primary trend in the u.s. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. government authorities and these third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. we cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for lomitapide or any other product that we develop and, if reimbursement is available, the level of reimbursement. reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product for which we obtain marketing approval. obtaining reimbursement for lomitapide may be particularly difficult because of the higher prices often associated with drugs directed at orphan populations. in addition, third-party payors are likely to impose strict requirements for reimbursement in order to limit off label use of a higher priced drug. if reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop. if we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities to market and sell lomitapide, we may be unable to generate product revenue. we have begun hiring a sales and marketing team in the united states and the european union, but we do not currently have a fully developed organization for the sale, marketing or distribution of pharmaceutical products. we have not yet demonstrated an ability to commercialize any product candidate. in order to market any products that may be approved by the fda or any other regulatory authority, we must build our sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. if lomitapide is approved by the fda or the ema, we plan to continue building a commercial infrastructure to launch lomitapide in the united states and the european union, as the case may be, with a relatively small specialty sales force. the establishment and development of our commercial infrastructure will be expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to successfully develop this capability. we expect to incur expenses prior to product launch in recruiting and hiring a sales force and developing a marketing and sales infrastructure. if the commercial launch of lomitapide is delayed as a result of fda or ema requirements or other reasons, we would incur these expenses prior to being able to realize any revenue from product sales. even if we are able to effectively hire a sales force and develop a marketing and sales infrastructure, our sales force may not be successful in commercializing lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop. if we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. we are evaluating markets outside the united states and european union to determine in which geographies we might choose to commercialize lomitapide ourselves, if approved, and in which geographies we might choose to collaborate with third parties. to the extent we rely on third parties to commercialize lomitapide, if marketing approval is obtained, we may receive less revenue than if we commercialized the product ourselves. in addition, we would have less control over the sales efforts of any third parties involved in our commercialization efforts. in the event we are unable to collaborate with a third-party marketing and sales organization to commercialize lomitapide, for certain geographies, our ability to generate product revenue may be limited internationally.   41 table of contents positive results in preclinical studies and earlier clinical trials of our product candidates may not be replicated in later clinical trials, which could result in development delays or a failure to obtain marketing approval. positive results in preclinical studies of lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and promising results from other clinical trials of lomitapide or any other product candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. accordingly, the results from completed preclinical studies and clinical experience with lomitapide in fc may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials. our preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. moreover, preclinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain fda approval for their products. changes in regulatory requirements and guidance or unanticipated events during our clinical trials may occur, which may result in necessary changes to clinical trial protocols, which could result in increased costs to us, delay our development timeline or reduce the likelihood of successful completion of the clinical trial. changes in regulatory requirements and guidance or unanticipated events during our clinical trials may occur, as a result of which we may need to amend clinical trial protocols. amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to irbs for review and approval, which may impact the cost, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. if we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials of lomitapide in fc or in pediatric hofh populations, the commercial prospects for lomitapide may be harmed. if we pursue development of lomitapide for broader patient populations, we likely will be subject to stricter regulatory requirements, product development will be more costly and commercial pricing for any approved indication would likely be lower. although we have no near-term plans to develop lomitapide for the treatment of any indications other than hofh and fc, we believe that lomitapide may be useful for the treatment of elevated lipid levels in broader patient populations. our potential development and commercialization of lomitapide in these broader patient populations would be more costly than for hofh and fc, and would be subject to development and commercialization risks that are not applicable to hofh and fc. clinical development of lomitapide in broader patient populations would involve clinical trials with larger numbers of patients possibly taking the drug for longer periods of time. this would be costly and could take many years to complete. in addition, we believe that the fda and, in some cases, the ema would require a clinical outcomes study demonstrating a reduction in cardiovascular events either prior to or after the submission of an application for marketing approval for these broader indications. clinical outcomes studies are particularly expensive and time consuming to conduct because of the larger number of patients required to establish that the drug being tested has the desired effect. it may also be more difficult for us to demonstrate the desired outcome in these studies than to achieve validated surrogate endpoints, such as the primary efficacy endpoint of our pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh of percent change in ldl-c levels from baseline. in addition, in considering approval of lomitapide for broader patient populations with less severely elevated lipid levels, the fda and other regulatory authorities may place greater emphasis on the side effect and risk profile of the drug in comparison to the drug’s efficacy and potential clinical benefit than in smaller, more severely afflicted patient populations. these factors may make it more difficult for us to achieve marketing approvals of lomitapide for these broader patient populations.   42 table of contents if we are able to successfully develop and obtain marketing approval of lomitapide in these broader patient populations, we likely will not be able to obtain the same pricing level that we secure for use of lomitapide for orphan indications. the pricing of some drugs intended for orphan populations is often related to the size of the patient population, with smaller patient populations often justifying higher prices. if the pricing for lomitapide is lower in broader patient populations, we may not be able to maintain higher pricing in the population of more severely afflicted patients. this would lead to a decrease in revenue from sales to more severely afflicted patients, and could make it more difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. in addition, if one of our product candidates receives marketing approval for a broader indication than its orphan designation, we may not be able to maintain any orphan drug exclusivity that we obtain or such orphan drug exclusivity may be circumvented by a third-party competitor. if we fail to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity for lomitapide, we will have to rely on our data and marketing exclusivity, if any, and on our intellectual property rights, which may reduce the length of time that we can prevent competitors from selling lomitapide. we have obtained orphan drug designation for lomitapide in the united states for the treatment of hofh. in march 2011, the fda granted lomitapide orphan drug designation for the treatment of fc. under the orphan drug act, the fda may designate a product as an orphan drug if it is a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition, defined, in part, as a patient population of fewer than 200,000 in the united states. in the united states, the company that first obtains fda approval for a designated orphan drug for the specified rare disease or condition receives orphan drug marketing exclusivity for that drug for a period of seven years. this orphan drug exclusivity prevents the fda from approving another application, including a full nda, to market the same drug for the same orphan indication, except in very limited circumstances. for purposes of small molecule drugs, the fda defines “same drug” as a drug that contains the same active molecule and is intended for the same use as the drug in question. a designated orphan drug may not receive orphan drug exclusivity if it is approved for a use that is broader than the indication for which it received orphan designation. in addition, orphan drug exclusive marketing rights in the united states may be lost if the fda later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. the ema grants orphan drug designation to promote the development of products that may offer therapeutic benefits for life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions affecting not more than five in 10,000 people in the european union. orphan drug designation from the ema provides ten years of marketing exclusivity following drug approval, subject to reduction to six years if the designation criteria are no longer met. in october 2010, we withdrew our application to the ema for orphan drug designation for lomitapide for the treatment of hofh, based on guidance we received from the ema that lomitapide is not eligible for orphan drug designation for this indication since the ema views the relevant condition, for orphan drug purposes, to include hofh and hefh. the ema has granted lomitapide orphan drug designation for the treatment of fc. our failure to obtain orphan drug designation for lomitapide for the treatment of hofh in the european union means that we will not have the benefit of the orphan drug market exclusivity for this indication in the european union, and, as a result, will need to rely on our intellectual property rights and other exclusivity provisions. our european patents directed towards the composition of matter of lomitapide are scheduled to expire in 2016, and may additionally qualify for a supplemental certificate that would provide extended patent protection for up to five years after patent expiration upon marketing approval in the european union. in addition, lomitapide qualifies as a new chemical entity in the european union. in the european union, new chemical entities qualify for eight years of data exclusivity upon marketing authorization and an additional two years of market exclusivity. this data exclusivity, if granted, prevents regulatory authorities in the european union from assessing a generic application for eight years, after which generic marketing authorization can be submitted but not marketed for two years. if we do not obtain protection under the hatch-waxman amendments and similar foreign legislation by extending the patent terms and obtaining data exclusivity for our product candidates, our business may be materially harmed.   43 table of contents even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a product, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the product from competition because different drugs can be approved for the same condition. even after an orphan drug is approved, the fda can subsequently approve the same drug for the same condition if the fda concludes that the later drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. in june 2007, the fda instituted a partial clinical hold with respect to clinical trials of longer than six months duration for our mtp-i product candidates. although the partial clinical hold was lifted with respect to lomitapide, it remains in effect with respect to implitapide. the fda may still have the same concerns that resulted in this clinical hold. in june 2007, we received notice from the fda of a partial clinical hold with respect to clinical trials of longer than six months duration for our mtp-i product candidates. the fda issued such notices to all sponsors of mtp-is. at that time, the fda did not apply this partial clinical hold to our pivotal phase iii clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh. in connection with the partial clinical hold, the fda requested that we collect additional preclinical data to assess the risk for pulmonary phospholipidosis, with long-term use of these compounds. we understand that the fda has undertaken a broader initiative to understand phospholipidosis in those drugs commonly evidencing this phenomenon, typically characterized as cationic (positively charged) and lipophilic (soluble in lipids). mtp-is both cationic and lipophilic. in connection with the partial clinical hold, the fda requested that we conduct a three month, repeat-dose rat toxicology study that included a recovery group and a sufficient number of active doses to establish the level of exposure at which there is no biologically or statistically significant increase in the frequency or severity of pulmonary phospholipidosis, which is commonly referred to as the no observable adverse effect level. the fda also requested an electron microscopy lung tissue analysis. we submitted the requested preclinical data for lomitapide in december 2008, and the fda removed the partial clinical hold with respect to lomitapide in february 2010. the partial clinical hold remains in effect with respect to implitapide. if we decide to advance the clinical development of implitapide, we may have to perform additional preclinical studies to satisfy the fda’s concerns related to pulmonary phospholipidosis which may result in significant increases in estimated time and expense of development. furthermore, notwithstanding that the fda has removed the partial clinical hold with respect to lomitapide, if the fda has further or renewed concerns regarding pulmonary phospholipidosis, it could raise this issue as part of the nda review process for lomitapide, which could delay or prevent marketing approval of lomitapide or result in adverse limitations in any approved labeling or on distribution and use of the product. recent federal legislation and actions by state and local governments may permit re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the united states, including foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the united states, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition. we may face competition in the united states for lomitapide or any other product candidate, if approved, from lower priced products from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. this risk may be particularly applicable to drugs such as lomitapide that are formulated for oral delivery and expected to command a premium price. the mma contains provisions that may change u.s. importation laws and expand pharmacists’ and wholesalers’ ability to import lower priced versions of an approved drug and competing products from canada, where there are government price controls. these changes to u.s. importation laws will not take effect unless and until the secretary of health and human services certifies that the changes will pose no additional risk to the public’s health and safety, and may result in a significant reduction in the cost of products to consumers. the secretary of health and human services has not yet announced any plans to make this required certification.   44 table of contents a number of federal legislative proposals have been made to implement the changes to the u.s. importation laws without any certification, and to broaden permissible imports in other ways. even if the changes do not take effect, and other changes are not enacted, imports from canada and elsewhere may continue to increase due to market and political forces, and the limited enforcement resources of the fda, u.s. customs and border protection and other government agencies. for example, pub. l. no. 112-74, which was signed into law in december 2011 and provides appropriations for the department of homeland security for the 2012 fiscal year, expressly prohibits u.s. customs and border protection from using funds to prevent individuals from importing from canada less than a 90-day supply of a prescription drug for personal use, when the drug otherwise complies with the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. further, several states and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens, and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, we expect other states and local governments to launch importation efforts. the importation of foreign products that compete with lomitapide or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval could negatively impact our revenue and profitability, possibly materially. our market is subject to intense competition. if we are unable to compete effectively, lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our potential competitors include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies, academic institutions, government agencies and research institutions. all of these competitors currently engage in, have engaged in or may engage in the future in the development, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of new pharmaceuticals, some of which may compete with lomitapide or other product candidates. smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. key competitive factors affecting the commercial success of lomitapide and any other product candidates that we develop are likely to be efficacy, safety and tolerability profile, reliability, convenience of dosing, price and reimbursement. the market for lipid lowering therapeutics is large and competitive with many applicable drug classes. however, lomitapide, if approved, will be focused, at least initially, on hofh and fc, niche orphan markets where lomitapide will be positioned for use in combination with existing approved therapies, such as statins, to provide incremental efficacy in these currently underserved patient populations. we believe that lomitapide will face distinct competition for the treatment of both hofh and fc. although there are no mtp-i compounds currently approved by the fda for the treatment of hyperlipidemia, we are aware of other mtp-i compounds in early stage clinical trials, and other pharmaceutical companies that are developing the following potentially competitive product candidates:     •   hofh—isis pharmaceuticals, inc., or isis, and its collaboration partner, genzyme corporation, or genzyme, now part of sanofi-aventis, are developing an antisense apolipoproteinb-100 inhibitor, mipomersen, as a weekly subcutaneous injection for lowering high cholesterol, ldl-c and apolipoprotein b. isis and genzyme have completed four phase iii clinical trials for this product candidate. the fda has granted mipomersen orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with hofh. therefore, if mipomersen is approved by the fda, isis and genzyme will be entitled to seven years of marketing exclusivity for such indication as to competitive products that are the same drug as mipomersen. genzyme submitted an maa to the ema in july 2011 seeking approval for mipomersen for the treatment of hofh and severe hefh.   45 table of contents   •   pcsk9 defects—several companies, including sanofi/regeneron and alnylam, are developing molecules that attempt to mimic the impact observed in patients with defects in their pcsk9 gene. such patients have lower ldl-c levels and an observed reduction in cardiovascular events, and some believe that medicines that duplicate this behavior may effectively reduce ldl-c levels with a similar benefit. in 2011, regeneron pharmaceuticals, inc. and its collaboration partner, sanofi, announced positive results from phase ii studies of its anti-pcsk9 antibody in patients with hefh and primary hypercholesterolemia.     •   dgat-1 inhibition—novartis international ag, or novartis, is developing an inhibitor of diacylglycerol acyltransferase-1 (dgat-1) for the treatment of fc, and has recently initiated a phase iii clinical trial of its product candidate, lcq908, in this indication. if we obtain marketing approval of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh in the united states, and genzyme and isis obtain marketing approval of mipomersen for the treatment of patients with hofh in the united states, lomitapide would compete in the same market with mipomersen. if isis and genzyme obtain marketing approval of mipomersen for the treatment of patients with hofh in the united states prior to us, they could obtain a competitive advantage associated with being the first to market. in connection with obtaining marketing approval for mipomersen, isis and genzyme will also obtain orphan drug exclusivity for mipomersen, but we do not believe that orphan drug exclusivity for mipomersen would have an adverse effect on our business as mipomersen and lomitapide are different drugs under fda rules, and any exclusivity applicable to either drug will not apply to the other drug. thus, because mipomersen is a different drug than lomitapide, we could obtain both approval and orphan drug exclusivity for lomitapide even if isis and genzyme have already obtained orphan drug exclusivity for mipomersen. isis and genzyme could obtain both approval and orphan drug exclusivity for mipomersen even if we have already obtained orphan drug exclusivity for lomitapide. similarly, in the european union, notwithstanding the fact that the ema has granted lomitapide orphan drug designation for the treatment of fc, if a competitor subsequently obtains approval and market exclusivity for its orphan designated drug for the treatment of fc, our marketing application for fc would not be accepted, and we would be excluded from the market only if lomitapide was a “similar medicinal product” to our competitor’s product. in the european union, a drug is a “similar medicinal product” if it contains a “similar active substance” or substances and is intended for the same therapeutic indication. a “similar active substance” is an identical active substance, or an active substance with the same principal molecular structural features and which acts via the same mechanism. many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do, and significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of drug candidates, obtaining fda and other regulatory approvals of products and the commercialization of those products. accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we may be in obtaining fda and other marketing approvals for drugs and achieving widespread market acceptance. our competitors’ drugs may be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than any drug we may commercialize, and may render lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing the product. we anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs enter the market and advanced technologies become available. finally, the development of new treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could render lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop non-competitive or obsolete.   46 table of contents we face potential product liability exposure, and, if claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability. the use of lomitapide or any other product candidate in clinical trials and the sale of lomitapide or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our products. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. in addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:     •   decreased demand for lomitapide or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval;     •   impairment of our business reputation and exposure to adverse publicity;     •   increased warnings on product labels;     •   withdrawal of clinical trial participants;     •   costs of related litigation;     •   distraction of management’s attention from our primary business;     •   substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants;     •   loss of revenue; and     •   the inability to successfully commercialize lomitapide or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. we have obtained product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials with a $5.0 million annual aggregate coverage limit. however, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. if and when we obtain marketing approval for lomitapide or any other product candidate, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products; however, we may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms. on occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. the cost of any product liability litigation or other proceedings, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. a successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. a variety of risks associated with our planned international business relationships could materially adversely affect our business. we plan to seek approval to market lomitapide ourselves in certain countries outside the united states, and to enter into agreements with third parties for the development and commercialization of lomitapide in other international markets. if we do so, we would be subject to additional risks related to entering into international business relationships, including:     •   differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries;     •   potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights;     •   the potential for so-called parallel importing, which is what happens when a local seller, faced with high or higher local prices, opts to import goods from a foreign market, with low or lower prices, rather than buying them locally;     •   unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;   47 table of contents   •   economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;     •   compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees traveling abroad;     •   foreign taxes;     •   foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenue, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country;     •   workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states;     •   production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and     •   business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism, or natural disasters, including earthquakes, volcanoes, typhoons, floods, hurricanes and fires. these and other risks of international business relationships may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or sustain profitable operations. our relationships with customers and payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings. healthcare providers, physicians and others play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any products for which we obtain marketing approval. our future arrangements with third-party payors and customers will expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products for which we obtain marketing approval. restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following:     •   the federal healthcare anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid.     •   the federal false claims act imposes criminal and civil penalties, including civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease, or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government.     •   the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information.     •   the federal false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services.     •   the federal transparency requirements under the health care reform law requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics, and medical supplies to report to the department of health and human services information related to physician payments and other transfers of value and physician ownership and investment interests.   48 table of contents   •   analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws and transparency laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by state governments and non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers, and some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures and drug pricing. efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations could be costly. it is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. if our operations, including anticipated activities conducted by our sales team, are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. if any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs. we are transitioning our business to focus on the commercialization of our products, and we may require third-party relationships to enable this transition, which may have an adverse effect on our business. we will need to continue to transition from a company with a development focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities. we may not be successful in such a transition. we have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain marketing approval for or commercialize a product candidate. as a result, we may not be as successful as companies that have previously obtained marketing approval for drug candidates and commercially launched drugs. to maximize the commercial potential of lomitapide, if approved, we may need to find collaborative partners to help market and sell the product in certain geographic locations outside of the united states and european union. if we do secure such collaborations, we will be reliant on one or more of these strategic partners to generate revenue on our behalf. there are risks involved with both establishing our own sales and marketing capabilities and entering into arrangements with third parties to perform these services. for example, recruiting and training a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. if the commercial launch of a product candidate for which we recruit a sales force and establish marketing capabilities is delayed or does not occur for any reason, we would have prematurely or unnecessarily incurred these commercialization expenses. this may be costly, and our investment would be lost if we cannot retain or reposition our sales and marketing personnel. factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products include:     •   our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel;     •   the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe any future products;     •   the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and     •   unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. if we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues or the profitability of these product revenues to us are likely to be lower than if we were to market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. in addition, we may not be successful in entering into   49 table of contents arrangements with third parties to sell and market our product candidates or doing so on terms that are favorable to us. we likely will have little control over such third parties, and any of them may fail to devote the necessary resources and attention to sell and market our products effectively. if we do not establish sales and marketing capabilities successfully, either on our own or in collaboration with third parties, we will not be successful in commercializing our product candidates. risks related to our intellectual property if our patent position does not adequately protect our product candidates, others could compete against us more directly, which would harm our business, possibly materially. our lomitapide patent portfolio consists of five issued u.s. patents and related issued patents in europe, canada, israel, australia, new zealand and japan and related pending applications in the u.s., europe, australia, japan, canada, israel and south korea, all of which have been licensed to us in a specific field. the issued u.s. patents are scheduled to expire between 2013 and 2027. the u.s. patent covering the composition of matter of lomitapide is scheduled to expire in 2015. the non-u.s. patents directed to the composition of matter of lomitapide are scheduled to expire in 2016. our implitapide patent portfolio consists of four issued u.s. patents, one pending u.s. non-provisional application, and related patents in canada, mexico, israel and japan. the issued u.s. patents are scheduled to expire between 2015 and 2017. the u.s. patent and non-u.s. patents covering the composition of matter of implitapide are scheduled to expire in 2015. we also have filed five non-provisional u.s. patent applications directed to pharmaceutical combinations of a mtp-i, such as lomitapide or implitapide, and other cholesterol lowering drugs, and to methods of using such combinations in certain dosing regimens to reduce serum cholesterol or tg concentrations. our commercial success will depend significantly on our ability to obtain additional patents and protect our existing patent position as well as our ability to maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for our technologies, product candidates and any future products in the united states and other countries. if we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and ability to achieve profitability. our ability to use the patents and patent applications licensed to us and described above to protect our business will depend on our ability to comply with the terms of the applicable licenses and other agreements. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these countries. the patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies, product candidates and any future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that:     •   we will be able to successfully commercialize our products before some or all of our relevant patents expire;     •   we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications;     •   we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions;     •   others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;   50 table of contents   •   any of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications will result in issued patents;     •   any of our or our licensors’ patents will be valid or enforceable;     •   any patents issued to us or our licensors and collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties;     •   we will develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable; or     •   the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business. if we do not obtain protection under the hatch-waxman amendments and similar foreign legislation by extending the patent terms and obtaining data exclusivity for our product candidates, our business may be materially harmed. depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of fda marketing approval, if any, of lomitapide or implitapide, some of our u.s. patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the drug price competition and patent term restoration act of 1984, referred to as the hatch-waxman amendments. the hatch-waxman amendments permit a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the fda regulatory review process. our u.s. composition of matter patent for lomitapide is scheduled to expire in 2015, and we plan to seek patent term extension for this patent. in the future, we intend to apply for restorations of patent term for some of our other currently owned or licensed patents to add patent life beyond their current expiration dates, depending on the length of clinical trials and other factors involved in the filing of the relevant nda. however, we may not be granted an extension because of, for example, failing to apply within applicable deadlines, failing to apply prior to expiration of relevant patents or otherwise failing to satisfy applicable requirements. moreover, the applicable time period or the scope of patent protection afforded could be less than we request. if we are unable to obtain patent term extension or restoration or the term of any such extension is less than we request, our competitors may obtain approval of competing products following our patent expiration, and our revenue could be reduced, possibly materially. in addition, we believe that lomitapide and implitapide are new chemical entities in the united states and may be eligible for data exclusivity under the hatch-waxman amendments. a drug can be classified as a new chemical entity if the fda has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety. under sections 505(c)(3)(e)(ii) and 505(j)(5)(f)(ii) of the fdca, as amended, a new chemical entity that is granted marketing approval may, even in the absence of patent protections, be eligible for five years of data exclusivity in the united states following marketing approval, which period is reduced to four years if certain patents covering the new chemical entity or its method of use are challenged by a generic applicant. this data exclusivity, if granted, would preclude submission during the exclusivity period of 505(b)(2) applications or abbreviated new drug applications submitted by another company that references the new chemical entity application. in the european union, new chemical entities qualify for eight years of data exclusivity upon marketing authorization and an additional two years of market exclusivity. this data exclusivity, if granted, prevents regulatory authorities in the european union from assessing a generic application for eight years, after which generic marketing authorization can be submitted but not marketed for two years. if we are not able to gain or exploit the period of data exclusivity, we may face significant competitive threats to our commercialization of these compounds from other manufacturers, including the manufacturers of generic alternatives. further, even if our compounds are considered to be new chemical entities and we are able to gain the prescribed period of data exclusivity, another company nevertheless could also market another version of the drug if such company can complete a full nda with a complete human clinical trial process and obtain marketing approval of its product.   51 table of contents if we are not able to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information, the value of our technology and products could be significantly diminished. we rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. however, trade secrets are difficult to protect. we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. these agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. in addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. for example, the fda, as part of its transparency initiative, currently is considering whether to make additional information publicly available on a routine basis, including information that we may consider to be trade secrets or other proprietary information, and it is not clear at the present time how the fda’s disclosure policies may change in the future, if at all. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. we may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may prevent or delay our product development efforts and stop us from commercializing or increase the costs of commercializing our products. our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. there could be issued patents of which we are not aware that our products infringe. there also could be patents that we believe we do not infringe, but that we may ultimately be found to infringe. moreover, patent applications are in some cases maintained in secrecy until patents are issued. the publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications were filed. because patents can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products infringe. for example, pending applications may exist that provide support or can be amended to provide support for a claim that results in an issued patent that our product infringes. the pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. other parties may obtain patents in the future and allege that our products or the use of our technologies infringes these patent claims or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. likewise, third parties may challenge or infringe upon our existing or future patents. proceedings involving our patents or patent applications or those of others could result in adverse decisions regarding:     •   the patentability of our inventions relating to our product candidates; and     •   the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents relating to our product candidates. even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and divert management’s time and attention in pursuing these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. if we are unable to avoid infringing the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. patent litigation is costly and time consuming. we may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. in addition, if we do not obtain a license, develop or obtain non-infringing technology, fail to defend an infringement action successfully or have infringed patents declared invalid, we may:     •   incur substantial monetary damages;     •   encounter significant delays in bringing our product candidates to market; and     •   be precluded from manufacturing or selling our product candidates. in such event, our business could be adversely affected, possibly materially.   52 table of contents if we fail to comply with our obligations in our license agreements for our product candidates, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. our existing license agreements impose, and we expect any future license agreements that we enter into will impose, various diligence, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. in addition, our license agreement with upenn, limits the field of use for lomitapide as a monotherapy or in combination with other dyslipidemic therapies for treatment of patients with severe hypercholesterolemia unable to come within 15% of the national cholesterol education program, or ncep, ldl-c goal on maximal tolerated oral therapy, as determined by the patient’s prescribing physician, or with severe combined hyperlipidemia unable to come within 15% of the ncep non-high density lipoprotein cholesterol goal on maximal tolerated oral therapy, as determined by the patient’s prescribing physician, or with severe hypertriglyceridemia unable to reduce tg levels to less than 1,000 mg/dl on maximal tolerated therapy. if we fail to comply with the obligations and restrictions under our license agreements, including the limited field of use under our license agreement with upenn, the applicable licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which case we might not be able to market any product that is covered by the licensed patents. any breach or termination of our license agreement with upenn would have a particularly significant adverse effect on our business because of our reliance on the commercial success of lomitapide. although we intend to comply with the restrictions on field of use in our license agreement with upenn by seeking product labels for lomitapide, if approved, that are consistent with the license field, we may still be subject to the risk of breaching the license agreement if we are deemed to be promoting or marketing lomitapide for an indication not covered by any product label that we are able to obtain. in addition, because this restriction on the field of use limits the indications for which we can develop lomitapide, the commercial potential of lomitapide may not be as great as without this restriction. risks related to our dependence on third parties we currently depend on a single third-party manufacturer to produce our clinical drug supplies and intend to rely upon third-party manufacturers to produce commercial supplies of lomitapide. this may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of lomitapide or such quantities at an acceptable cost, which could delay, prevent, or impair our clinical development and commercialization of lomitapide. we currently have no manufacturing facilities and limited personnel with manufacturing experience. we rely on a contract manufacturer to produce drug substance for lomitapide, and another contract manufacturer for drug product, for our clinical trials, and plan to rely on those contract manufacturers for commercial supplies, if lomitapide is approved for marketing by the applicable regulatory authorities. we currently purchase our supplies of drug product and drug substance from our contract manufacturers on a purchase order basis, and do not yet have a long-term commercial supply agreement in place. we also do not have agreements in place for redundant supply or second source for lomitapide. any performance failure on the part of our existing or future manufacturers could delay further clinical development or marketing approval of lomitapide or commercialization of lomitapide. if for some reason our current contract manufacturer cannot perform as agreed, we may be required to replace that manufacturer. although we believe there are a number of potential replacements that could manufacture the clinical and commercial supply of lomitapide, we may incur added costs and delays in identifying and qualifying any such replacements. furthermore, although we generally do not begin a clinical trial unless we have a sufficient supply of a product candidate for the trial, any significant delay in the supply of a product candidate for an ongoing trial due to the need to replace a third-party manufacturer could delay completion of the trial. if we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing, or are unable to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully market lomitapide or complete development of lomitapide. reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured lomitapide ourselves, including:     •   reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance;   53 table of contents   •   the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; and     •   the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party (including merger and acquisition activity, bankruptcy filing, and strategic shifts), based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or damaging to us. in addition, the fda and other regulatory authorities require that product candidates be manufactured according to cgmp. any failure by our third-party manufacturers to comply with cgmp or failure to reproducibly scale up and validate our manufacturing processes could lead to a delay in or failure to obtain marketing approval of lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop. in addition, such failure could be the basis for action by the fda or ema to withdraw approvals for product candidates previously granted to us and for other regulatory action, including seizure, injunction or other civil or criminal penalties. if we receive marketing approval of lomitapide, we currently expect to continue to rely upon third-party manufacturers to produce commercial supplies of the product. accordingly, our manufacturers of clinical supplies may need to increase their scale of production to meet our projected needs for commercial manufacturing or we may need to identify additional commercial scale manufacturers. lomitapide and any other product candidate that we develop may compete with other products and product candidates for access to manufacturing facilities. there are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cgmp regulations and that are both capable of manufacturing for us and willing to do so. we may not be able to identify, or reach agreement with, commercial scale manufacturers on commercially reasonably terms, or at all. if we are unable to do so, we will need to develop our own commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities, which would: delay commercialization of lomitapide, if approved, possibly materially; require a capital investment by us that could be quite costly; and increase our operating expenses. if our existing third-party manufacturers, or the third parties that we engage in the future to manufacture a product for commercial sale or for our clinical trials, should cease to continue to do so for any reason, we likely would experience delays in obtaining sufficient quantities for us to meet commercial demand or to advance our clinical trials while we identify and qualify replacement suppliers. if for any reason we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of lomitapide or any other product candidate that we develop or the drug substances used to manufacture it, it will be more difficult for us to compete effectively, generate revenue, and further develop our products. in addition, if, following approval, if any, we are unable to assure a sufficient quantity of the drug for patients with rare diseases or conditions, we may lose any orphan drug exclusivity to which the product otherwise would be entitled. if we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully commercialize lomitapide. we plan to market, sell and distribute lomitapide for hofh, if approved, directly in the united states and europe and several other countries using our own marketing and sales resources. we plan to use third parties to provide warehousing, shipping and other distribution services on our behalf in those countries. we may selectively seek to establish collaborations to reach patients with hofh in geographies that we do not believe we can cost-effectively address with our own sales and marketing capabilities. if we are unable to establish our capabilities to sell, market and distribute lomitapide, if approved by the fda and other regulatory authorities, either through our own capabilities or by entering into agreements with others, or to enter into collaborations in those countries we do not believe we can cost-effectively address with our own sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to successfully sell lomitapide. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish and maintain our own capabilities or to enter into and maintain any distribution agreements with third-parties on acceptable terms, if at all. furthermore, our expenses associated with building up and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities around the world may be disproportionate compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of lomitapide. we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in commercializing lomitapide.   54 table of contents we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and to perform related services, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such clinical trials. we may become involved in commercial disputes with these parties. we do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials, and we rely on third parties such as cros, medical institutions, academic institutions, and clinical investigators to perform this function. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. however, if we sponsor clinical trials, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial, even if we use a cro. moreover, the fda requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they provide is compromised due to the failure to adhere to regulatory requirements or our clinical trial protocols, or for other reasons, our development programs may be extended, delayed or terminated, marketing approvals for lomitapide or any other product candidate may be delayed or denied, and we may be delayed or precluded in our efforts to successfully commercialize lomitapide or any other product candidate for targeted indications. in addition, we may from time to time become involved in commercial disputes with these third parties, for example regarding the quality of the services provided by these third parties or our ultimate liability to pay for services they purported to do on our behalf, or the value of such services. due to our reliance on third-party service providers, we may experience commercial disputes such as this in the future. in some cases, we may be required to pay for work that was not performed to our specifications or not utilized by us, and these obligations may be material. we do not have drug research or discovery capabilities, and will need to acquire or license existing drug compounds from third parties to expand our product candidate pipeline. lomitapide has been licensed to us by upenn and implitapide has been licensed to us by bayer healthcare ag. we currently have no drug research or discovery capabilities. accordingly, if we are to expand our product candidate pipeline, we will need to acquire or license existing compounds from third parties. in addition, although we have the right to use implitapide for any indication, our right to use lomitapide is limited to specified patient populations, such as patients with hofh, severe hypercholesterolemia or severe hypertriglyceridemia. accordingly, if we wished to expand the development of lomitapide to address other indications, we would need to expand our license agreement with upenn and potentially acquire rights from bms. we will face significant competition in seeking to acquire or license promising drug compounds. many of our competitors for such promising compounds may have significantly greater financial resources and more extensive experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products, and thus, may be a more attractive option to a potential licensor than us. if we are unable to acquire or license additional promising drug compounds, we will not be able to expand our product candidate pipeline. risks related to employee matters and managing growth our future success depends on our ability to hire and retain our key executives and to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. we are highly dependent on marc beer, our chief executive officer, and the other principal members of our executive and development teams. we have entered into employment agreements with certain members of our executive and development teams, but any employee may terminate his or her employment with us at any time. for example, in june 2011, william h. lewis resigned as our president. we do not maintain “key man” life   55 table of contents insurance for any of our employees. the loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our development and commercialization objectives. we expect to continue hiring qualified development personnel. recruiting and retaining qualified development personnel and sales and marketing personnel will be critical to our success. we may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. we also experience competition for the hiring of development personnel from universities and research institutions. failure to succeed in clinical trials may make it more challenging to recruit and retain qualified development personnel. in addition, as a result of becoming a public company, we need to continue to establish and maintain effective disclosure and financial controls and make changes in our corporate governance practices. we will need to hire additional accounting and financial personnel with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, and it may be difficult to recruit and maintain such personnel. in addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific, manufacturing and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our development, manufacturing and commercialization strategy. our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. we will need to grow our organization, and we may encounter difficulties in managing this growth, which could disrupt our operations. we currently have only 41 employees, and we expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations. to manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. our management may need to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day activities, and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel, which may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining employees. the physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs, and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of lomitapide. if our management is unable to effectively manage our expected growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our ability to generate or increase our revenue could be reduced and we may not be able to implement our business strategy. our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize lomitapide and compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth. risks related to our financial position and capital requirements we have incurred significant operating losses since our inception, and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. we are a development stage company with a limited operating history. to date, we have primarily focused on developing our lead compound, lomitapide. we have funded our operations to date primarily through proceeds from the private placement of convertible preferred stock, convertible debt, venture debt, the proceeds from our initial public offering and the proceeds from our june 2011 public offering. we have incurred losses in each year since our inception in february 2005. as of december 30, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $130.5 million. substantially all of our operating losses resulted from costs incurred in connection with our development programs and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations.   56 table of contents the losses we have incurred to date, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. we expect our expenses to increase in the near-term as a result of spending on preparations for a possible global commercial launch of lomitapide; completion of our manufacturing validation campaigns; hiring of additional key personnel in the united states and europe; preparations for an anticipated advisory panel for lomitapide in 2012; initiation in 2012 of our planned clinical trial to evaluate lomitapide for the treatment adult patients with fc, subject to the input of the fda and chmp on a protocol; and the possible initiation of a clinical study of lomitapide in the treatment of pediatric and adolescent patients (> 8 to < 18 years of age) with hofh in 2013. if we obtain marketing approval for lomitapide, we will likely incur significant sales, marketing, and outsourced manufacturing expenses, as well as continued research and development expenses. in addition, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, additional costs associated with operating as a public company. as a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses at least in 2012 and 2013 and potentially in subsequent years. because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict with certainty the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. we have not generated any revenue from lomitapide or any other product candidate and may never be profitable. our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue. to date, we have not generated any revenue from any product, including our lead compound, lomitapide, and we do not know when, or if, we will generate any revenue. we do not expect to generate significant revenue unless or until we obtain marketing approval of, and commercialize lomitapide. our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to:     •   obtain approval of lomitapide in the united states and european union in the treatment of hofh, and the timing of such approvals;     •   establish sales and marketing capabilities to effectively market and sell lomitapide in the united states and the european union;     •   successfully launch lomitapide in the united states and european union, if approved;     •   obtain market acceptance by patients and physicians for lomitapide as a treatment for hofh;     •   obtain reimbursement and pricing for lomitapide sufficient to allow us to sell lomitapide on a competitive and profitable basis; and     •   contract for the manufacture of commercial quantities of lomitapide at acceptable cost levels if marketing approval is received. even if lomitapide is approved for commercial sale in one or both of the initial indications that we are pursuing, the diagnosis criteria in the final label may define the patient populations narrowly thus limiting intended users, or lomitapide may not gain market acceptance or achieve commercial success. in addition, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing any approved product. we may not achieve profitability soon after generating product revenue, if ever. if we are unable to generate product revenue, we will not become profitable, and may be unable to continue operations without continued funding. we may need substantial additional capital in the future. if additional capital is not available, we will have to delay, reduce or cease operations. we may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations, and to develop and commercialize lomitapide. our future capital requirements may be substantial and will depend on many factors including:     •   the decisions of the fda and ema with respect to our applications for marketing approval of lomitapide for the treatment of patients with hofh in the united states and the european union; the costs of activities related to the regulatory approval process; and the timing of approvals, if received;   57 table of contents   •   the timing and cost of our anticipated clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of adult patients with fc;     •   the timing and cost of an anticipated clinical trial to evaluate lomitapide for treatment of pediatric and adolescent patients (> 8 to < 18 years of age) with hofh;     •   the cost of putting in place the sales and marketing capabilities necessary to be prepared for a potential commercial launch of lomitapide in hofh, if approved;     •   the cost of filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims;     •   the costs of our manufacturing-related activities;     •   the costs associated with commercializing lomitapide if we receive marketing approval; and     •   subject to receipt of marketing approval, the levels, timing and collection of revenue received from sales of approved products, if any, in the future. in november 2011, we filed a shelf registration statement on form s-3 with the sec, which became effective in december 2011. this shelf registration statement permits us to offer, from time to time, any combination of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and warrants of up to an aggregate of $125,000,000. we currently have not issued any securities under this shelf registration statement. we may also pursue opportunities to obtain additional external financing in the future through debt financing, lease arrangements related to facilities and capital equipment, collaborative research and development agreements, and license agreements. based on our current operating plan, we anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to enable us to maintain our currently planned operations, including our continued product candidate development, at least through mid-2013. however, changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate. in february 2011, we entered into the loan and security agreement with the hercules funds, for a $25.0 million credit facility. at the closing of the loan and security agreement, we received an initial advance of $10.0 million, with interest-only payments for thirteen months. as of december 31, 2011, we have a principal amount of $10.0 million outstanding under the loan and security agreement. through december 31, 2011, we had the ability to request additional term loan advances of up to $15.0 million and did not do so. we are required to repay the aggregate principal balance of the loan that is outstanding on march 31, 2012 in monthly installments starting on april 1, 2012 and continuing through september 1, 2014. the remaining term loan principal balance and all accrued but unpaid interest will be due and payable on september 1, 2014. at our option, we may prepay all or any part of the outstanding advances subject to a prepayment charge. additional financing may not be available when we need it or may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. in addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations, even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. if adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, or at all, we may be required to:     •   terminate or delay clinical trials or other development activities for lomitapide for one or more indications for which we are developing lomitapide, in particular any clinical trial we initiate for the treatment of adult patients with fc; or     •   alter or scale back our continued establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities that may be necessary to commercialize lomitapide. if we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be required to reduce the scope of our planned development, sales and marketing efforts, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating   58 table of contents results. the source, timing and availability of any future financing will depend principally upon equity and debt market conditions, interest rates and, more specifically, on our continued progress in our regulatory, development and commercial activities, and the extent of our commercial success. there can be no assurance that external funds will be available on favorable terms, if at all. raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights. we may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings and collaborations and strategic and licensing arrangements. to the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. debt financing, if available, would result in increased fixed payment obligations and may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. if we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. we were incorporated in february 2005. our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company and conducting product development activities, primarily for lomitapide. consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history and experience in generating revenue. in addition, as a relatively young business, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other known and unknown factors. risks related to the securities markets and investment in our common stock the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. our stock price is volatile, and from october 22, 2010, the first day of trading of our common stock, to december 31, 2011, the trading prices of our stock have ranged from $9.00 to $25.92 per share. this is in part because there has been a public market for our common stock only since our initial public offering in october 2010, and our stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:     •   the response of the fda and ema to our nda and maa for approval of lomitapide in the treatment of hofh;     •   the initiation and results of our planned clinical trial of lomitapide for the treatment of adult patients with fc;     •   the timing of regulatory approvals related to these indications;     •   issuance of new securities;     •   failure of lomitapide, if approved, to achieve commercial success;     •   announcements of new products, services or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors;     •   fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies;     •   general market conditions and overall fluctuations in u.s. equity markets;     •   low trading volume;   59 table of contents   •   international financial market conditions, including the on-going sovereign debt crisis in the european union;     •   variations in our quarterly operating results;     •   changes in our financial guidance or securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance;     •   changes in accounting principles;     •   sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders;     •   additions or departures of key personnel;     •   success or failure of products within our therapeutic area of focus;     •   discussion of us or our stock price by the financial press and in online investor communities;     •   our relationships with and the conduct of third parties on which we depend; and     •   other risks and uncertainties described in these risk factors. in addition, the stock market in general, and the market for small pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. our directors and management exercise significant control over our company, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. our executive officers, directors, 5% stockholders and their affiliates collectively control approximately 50% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that other stockholders may desire and might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. these provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to obtain greater value for stockholders by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer rejected by our board were considered beneficial by some stockholders. in addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.   60 table of contents we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, a stockholder’s ability to achieve a return on investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. we have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. we currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. therefore, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. there is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise adequate capital through the sale of additional equity securities. if our existing stockholders sell, or if the market believes our existing stockholders will sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. as of december 31, 2011, there were:     •   2,964,851 shares subject to outstanding options under our 2006 stock option and award plan and 2010 stock option and incentive plan;     •   29,890 shares of restricted common stock subject to vesting as of december 31, 2011;     •   107,779 shares of common stock subject to warrants outstanding; and     •   an aggregate of 1,625,927 shares reserved for future issuance under our 2010 stock option and incentive plan as of december 31, 2011. on january 1, 2012 an additional 848,012 shares were automatically added to the aggregate number of shares reserved for future issuance under our 2010 stock option and incentive plan pursuant to the annual increase provisions thereunder. if additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. some of our existing stockholders have demand and piggyback rights to require us to register with the sec up to approximately 6.5 million shares of our common stock. if we register these shares of common stock, the stockholders would be able to sell those shares freely in the public market. we also registered approximately 4.4 million shares of our common stock that are subject to outstanding stock options and reserved for issuance under our equity plans. these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to vesting restrictions.   61 table of contents item 1b. unresolved