item 1a.    risk factors risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this annual report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. the occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. risks relating to our business our management concluded that due to our need for additional capital, and the uncertainties surrounding our ability to raise such funding, substantial doubt exists as to our ability to continue as a going concern. our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2011 were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with united states generally accepted accounting principles. the going concern basis of presentation assumes that we will continue in operation for the next twelve months and will be able to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business and do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from our inability to continue as a going concern. our operating and capital plans for the next twelve months call for cash expenditure to exceed our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and working capital. our management concluded that due to our need for additional capital, and the uncertainties surrounding our ability to raise such funding, substantial doubt exists as to our ability to continue as a going concern. we may be forced to reduce our operating expenses, raise additional funds, principally through the additional sales of our securities or debt financings, or enter into an additional corporate partnership to meet our working capital needs. however, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain sufficient additional funds when needed or that such funds, if available, will be obtainable on terms satisfactory to us. if we are unable to raise sufficient additional capital or complete a strategic transaction, we may be unable to continue to fund our operations, develop our product candidates or realize value from our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. these uncertainties raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. if we become unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets, and might realize significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our financial statements, and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment in our common stock. we have a history of net losses. we expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing net losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. we are not profitable and have incurred significant net losses in each year since our inception, including net losses of $40.5 million, $1.5 million, and $56.1 million for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and $351.7 million for the period from december 19, 2000 (inception) to december 31, 2011. as of december 31, 2011, we had a deficit accumulated during development stage of $306.6 million and a stockholders’ deficit of $9.7 million. we expect to continue to incur substantial net losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. these losses and negative cash flows have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development and commercialization, we are unable to accurately predict the timing or amount of future expenses or when, or if, we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability. currently, we have no products approved for commercial sale, and to date we have not generated any product revenue. we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity securities, equipment financing, debt financing, collaboration and licensing agreements, and government grants. the size of our future net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of growth or contraction of our expenses and the level and rate of growth, if any, of our revenues. revenues from strategic partnerships are   25 table of contents uncertain because we may not enter into any additional strategic partnerships. if we are unable to develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates or if sales revenue from any product candidate that receives marketing approval is insufficient, we will not achieve profitability. even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. we are a development stage company. our success depends substantially on our lead product candidates. if we do not develop commercially successful products, we may be forced to cease operations. you must evaluate us in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting a development stage pharmaceutical company. we have not completed clinical development for any of our product candidates. in october 2010, we received a crl from the fda regarding our nda for our adasuve product candidate. a crl is issued by the fda indicating that the nda review cycle is complete and the application is not ready for approval in its present form. in december 2010, we completed an end-of-review meeting with the fda to discuss the issues outlined in the adasuve crl. in april 2011, we completed a meeting with the fda to discuss preliminary draft labeling and initial rems program proposals. the fda indicated that a complete review of the proposed rems in conjunction with the full clinical review of the resubmitted nda will be necessary to determine whether the rems will be acceptable. in august 2011, we resubmitted the adasuve nda, which was accepted for filing by the fda as a complete, class 2 response to the fda’s crl. the fda indicated a pdufa goal date of february 4, 2012. in december 2011, a pdac was held to review the adasuve nda. in january 2012, we updated our rems and submitted other amendments to the adasuve nda to address topics discussed during the december pdac meeting. in january 2012, the fda notified us that it had designated the january 2012 rems submission as a major amendment to the adasuve nda and exercised the fda’s option to extend the pdufa goal date to provide additional time to complete the review, from february 4, 2012 to may 4, 2012. we may be unsuccessful in resolving the concerns raised in the crl, our proposed rems may not be acceptable to the fda and we may never receive marketing approval for adasuve or any of our product candidates as a result of the issues raised in the crl. in october 2011, we submitted our adasuve maa to the ema seeking an opinion from the ema regarding the potential approval of adasuve and grant of marketing authorization for adasuve by the european commission in the european union. marketing authorizations granted by the european commission on the basis of the opinion issued by the ema are valid in all of the european union member states. in february 2012, we received the day 80 assessment report from the ema, which outlined major objections to our adasuve maa. we may be unsuccessful in resolving the concerns raised in the day 80 assessment report. each of our other product candidates is at an earlier stage of development and may be affected by concerns expressed in the crl and/or the day 80 assessment report. each of our product candidates will be unsuccessful if it:     •   does not demonstrate acceptable quality, safety and efficacy in preclinical studies and clinical trials or otherwise does not meet applicable regulatory standards for approval;     •   does not offer therapeutic or other improvements over existing or future drugs used to treat the same or similar conditions;     •   is not capable of being produced in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all; or     •   is not accepted by patients, the medical community or third party payors. our ability to generate product revenue in the future is dependent on the successful development and commercialization of our product candidates. we have not proven our ability to develop and commercialize products. problems frequently encountered in connection with the development and utilization of new and unproven technologies and the competitive environment in which we operate might limit our ability to develop commercially successful products. we do not expect any of our current product candidates to be commercially available before 2013, if at all. if we are unable to make our product candidates commercially available, we will not generate product revenues, and we will not be successful.   26 table of contents we will need substantial additional capital in the future. if additional capital is not available, we will have to delay, reduce or cease operations. we will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations, to develop our product candidates and to develop our manufacturing capabilities. our future capital requirements will be substantial and will depend on many factors including:     •   the cost and outcomes of regulatory proceedings, most importantly, the fda review of the nda for adasuve that we resubmitted in august 2011 and amended in january 2012, and the ema review of the maa for adasuve that we submitted in october 2011;     •   the scope, rate of progress, results and costs of our preclinical studies, clinical trials and other research and development activities, and our manufacturing development and commercial manufacturing activities;     •   the cost and timing of developing manufacturing capacity;     •   the cost and timing of developing sales and marketing capabilities prior to receipt of any regulatory approval of our product candidates;     •   revenues received from any existing or future products;     •   payments received under our collaboration with cypress and grupo ferrer and any future strategic partnerships;     •   the availability of authorized shares of our common stock to issue to potential investors;     •   the filing, prosecution and enforcement of patent claims; and     •   the costs associated with commercializing our product candidates, if they receive regulatory approval. we believe that with current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, including receipt of the upfront payment from grupo ferrer, net of our $5 million payment to the former allegro stockholders, net proceeds of approximately $20.4 million from our recently completed underwritten public offering, the march 2012 amendment of the ferrer agreement and our current expected cash usage, accounting for the february 2012 reduction in our workforce, we have sufficient capital resources to meet our anticipated cash needs, at our current cost levels, into the fourth quarter of 2012. in february 2012, we reduced our workforce by 29 employees or 38% of our workforce in an effort to preserve cash balances. further, due to the fda not approving adasuve for commercial marketing in october 2010, we have slowed the clinical development of az-007. changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster or slower than we currently anticipate, or to alter our operations. we have based these estimates on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could exhaust our available financial resources sooner than we currently expect. the key assumptions underlying these estimates include:     •   expenditures related to continued preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates during this period within budgeted levels;     •   no unexpected costs related to the development of our manufacturing capability;     •   no unexpected costs related to the fda review of our adasuve nda or the ema review of our adasuve maa; and     •   no growth in the number of our employees during this period. we may never be able to generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to cover our expenses. until we do, we expect to finance our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, strategic partnerships or licensing arrangements. any financing transaction may contain unfavorable terms. if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders’ equity will be diluted and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. if we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships, we may be required to relinquish rights to our product candidates or technologies, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. in addition, in connection with our registered direct financing in may 2011, we agreed with the investors that, subject to certain exceptions, if we issue securities prior to the earlier of (i) the date on which we receive written approval from the fda for our adasuve nda or (ii) june 30, 2012, the investors in the   27 table of contents offering have the right to purchase their pro rata share, based on their participation in the offering, of such securities. complying with the terms of the foregoing rights and restrictions may make it more difficult to complete certain types of transactions and result in delays to our fundraising efforts. the process for obtaining approval of an nda is time consuming, subject to unanticipated delays and costs, and requires the commitment of substantial resources. we received a crl for our nda in october 2010. in october 2010, we received a complete response letter, or crl, from the fda regarding our nda. a crl is issued by the fda indicating that the nda review cycle is complete and the application is not ready for approval in its present form. the crl conveyed the fda’s comments regarding certain issues with our nda, including data from the three phase 1 pulmonary safety studies with adasuve, suitability of stability studies and certain other cmc concerns, including matters related to the fda’s inspection of our manufacturing facilities. in december 2010, we met with the fda to address the concerns raised in the crl. in april 2011, we completed a meeting with the fda to discuss preliminary draft labeling and initial rems program proposals. the fda indicated that a complete review of the proposed rems in conjunction with the full clinical review of the resubmitted nda will be necessary to determine whether the rems will be acceptable. we resubmitted our nda in august 2011. we may be unsuccessful in resolving the issues raised by the fda, our proposed rems may not be acceptable to the fda and we may never receive marketing approval for adasuve or any of our product candidates as a result of the issues raised in the crl. in december 2011, a pdac was held to review the adasuve nda. in january 2012, we updated our rems and submitted other amendments to the adasuve nda to address topics discussed during the december pdac meeting. in january 2012, the fda notified alexza that it had designated the january 2012 rems submission as a major amendment to the adasuve nda and exercised the fda’s option to extend the pdufa goal date to provide additional time to complete the review, from february 4, 2012 to may 4, 2012. the fda will conduct an in-depth review of our resubmission to determine whether to approve adasuve for commercial marketing for the indications we have proposed. if the fda is not satisfied with the information we provide, the fda may refuse to approve our nda or may require us to perform additional studies or provide other information in order to secure approval. the fda may delay, limit or refuse to approve our resubmitted nda if we did not sufficiently address the issues raised in the crl. if the fda determines that the clinical trials of adasuve that were submitted in support of our nda were not conducted in full compliance with the applicable protocols for these studies, as well as with applicable regulations and standards, or if the fda does not agree with our interpretation of the results of such studies, the fda may reject the data that resulted from such studies. the rejection of data from clinical trials required to support our nda for adasuve could negatively impact our ability to obtain marketing authorization for this product candidate and would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. in addition, our resubmitted nda may not be approved, or approval may be delayed, as a result of changes in fda policies for drug approval during the review period. for example, although many products have been approved by the fda in recent years under section 505(b)(2) of the fdca, objections have been raised to the fda’s interpretation of section 505(b)(2). if challenges to the fda’s interpretation of section 505(b)(2) are successful, the fda may be required to change its interpretation, which could delay or prevent the approval of an nda. any significant delay in the review or approval of our resubmitted nda would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. on october 26, 2011, the ema accepted the submission of our adasuve maa for an opinion regarding the potential approval of adasuve prior to potential grant of marketing authorization by the european commission. in february 2012, we received the day 80 assessment report from the ema regarding our maa for adasuve. the day 80 assessment report for adasuve outlines major objections pertaining to the extrapolation of the phase 3 study population to the intended patient population, pulmonary safety in patients with active airways disease and recommendations to address this issue via the risk management plan, other aspects of the risk management plan, and the need to obtain an european union good manufacturing practices certificate for the alexza manufacturing facility and commercial manufacturing process. we expect that specific questions will be posed by the ema in the 120 day chmp list of questions. any significant delay in our   28 table of contents response to the questions in the 120 day chmp list of questions or in the review of approval of our application for marketing authorization following response to these questions would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. unstable market conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. the recent economic downturn and market instability has made the business climate more volatile and more costly. our general business strategy may be adversely affected by unpredictable and unstable market conditions. if the current equity and credit markets deteriorate further, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. while we believe that with current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, including receipt of the upfront payment from grupo ferrer, net of our $5 million payment to the former allegro stockholders, net proceeds of approximately $20.4 million from our recently completed underwritten public offering, the march 2012 amendment of the ferrer agreement and our current expected cash usage, accounting for the february 2012 reduction in our workforce, we have sufficient capital resources to meet our anticipated cash needs, at our current cost levels, into the fourth quarter of 2012, we may obtain additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans or alter our operations. there is a risk that one or more of our current component manufacturers and partners may encounter difficulties during challenging economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. unless our preclinical studies demonstrate the safety of our product candidates, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates. to obtain regulatory approval to market and sell any of our product candidates, we must satisfy the fda and other regulatory authorities abroad, through extensive preclinical studies, that our product candidates are safe. our staccato system creates condensation aerosol from drug compounds, and there currently are no approved products that use a similar method of drug delivery. companies developing other inhalation products have not defined or successfully completed the types of preclinical studies we believe will be required for submission to regulatory authorities as we seek approval to conduct our clinical trials. we may not have conducted or may not conduct in the future the types of preclinical testing ultimately required by regulatory authorities, or future preclinical tests may indicate that our product candidates are not safe for use in humans. preclinical testing is expensive, can take many years and have an uncertain outcome. in addition, success in initial preclinical testing does not ensure that later preclinical testing will be successful. we may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the preclinical testing process, which could delay or prevent our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates, including:     •   our preclinical testing may produce inconclusive or negative safety results, which may require us to conduct additional preclinical testing or to abandon product candidates that we believed to be promising;     •   our product candidates may have unfavorable pharmacology, toxicology or carcinogenicity; and     •   our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects. any such events would increase our costs and could delay or prevent our ability to commercialize our product candidates, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. failure or delay in commencing or completing clinical trials for our product candidates could harm our business. we have not completed all the clinical trials necessary to support an application with the fda or other regulatory authorities abroad for approval to market any of our product candidates other than what we believe to be adequate clinical trials to support the marketing approval for adasuve in the united states. future clinical trials may be delayed or terminated as a result of many factors, including:     •   insufficient financial resources to fund such trials;   29 table of contents   •   delays or failure in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites;     •   regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial;     •   regulators or institutional review boards may suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or concerns about patient safety;     •   we may suspend or terminate our clinical trials if we believe that they expose the participating patients to unacceptable health risks;     •   we may experience slower than expected patient enrollment or lack of a sufficient number of patients that meet the enrollment criteria for our clinical trials;     •   patients may not complete clinical trials due to safety issues, side effects, dissatisfaction with the product candidate, or other reasons;     •   we may have difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, preventing us from collecting the data required by our study protocol;     •   product candidates may demonstrate a lack of efficacy during clinical trials;     •   we may experience governmental or regulatory delays, failure to obtain regulatory approval or changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; and     •   we may experience delays in our ability to manufacture clinical trial materials in a timely manner as a result of ongoing process and design enhancements to our staccato system. any delay in commencing or completing clinical trials for our product candidates would delay commercialization of our product candidates and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. it is possible that none of our product candidates will successfully complete clinical trials or receive regulatory approval, which would severely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our product candidates do not meet safety and efficacy endpoints in clinical trials, they will not receive regulatory approval, and we will be unable to market them. we have not yet received regulatory approval from the fda or any foreign regulatory authority to market any of our product candidates. the clinical development and regulatory approval process is extremely expensive and takes many years. the timing of any approval cannot be accurately predicted. if we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will be unable to market and sell them and therefore we may never be profitable. in october 2010 the fda issued a crl regarding our nda for adasuve. in december 2010, we met with the fda to address the concerns raised in the crl. we resubmitted our nda in august 2011. in april 2011, we completed a meeting with the fda to discuss preliminary draft labeling and initial rems program proposals. the fda indicated that a complete review of the proposed rems in conjunction with the full clinical review of the resubmitted nda will be necessary to determine whether the rems will be acceptable in december 2011, a pdac was held to review the adasuve nda. in january 2012, we updated our rems and submitted other amendments to the adasuve nda to address topics discussed during the december pdac meeting. in january 2012, the fda notified alexza that it had designated the january 2012 rems submission as a major amendment to the adasuve nda and exercised the fda’s option to extend the pdufa goal date to provide additional time to complete the review, from february 4, 2012 to may 4, 2012. we may be unsuccessful in resolving these issues, our proposed rems may not be acceptable to the fda and we may never receive marketing approval for adasuve or any of our product candidates as a result of the issues raised in the crl. in february 2012, we received the day 80 assessment report from the ema regarding our maa for adasuve. the day 80 assessment report for adasuve outlines major objections pertaining to the extrapolation of the phase 3 study population to the intended patient population, pulmonary safety in patients with active airways disease and recommendations to address this issue via the risk management plan, other aspects of the risk management plan, and the need to obtain an european union good manufacturing practices certificate for the alexza manufacturing facility and commercial manufacturing process. specific questions will   30 table of contents be posed by the ema in the 120 day chmp list of questions. we may be unsuccessful in responding to these questions in the 120 day chmp list of questions or our responses may not be acceptable to the ema and we may never receive marketing authorization from the european commission for adasuve or any of our product candidates as a result of the issues raised in the day 80 assessment report. as part of the regulatory process, we must conduct clinical trials for each product candidate to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the fda and other regulatory authorities abroad. the number and design of clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product candidate, the condition being evaluated, the trial results and regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. in june 2008, we announced that our phase 2a proof-of-concept clinical trial of az-002 (staccato alprazolam) did not meet either of its two primary endpoints. in september 2009, we announced that our phase 2b clinical trial of az-104 (staccato loxapine, low-dose) for the treatment of migraine did not meet its primary endpoint. prior clinical trial program designs and results are not necessarily predictive of future clinical trial designs or results. initial results may not be confirmed upon full analysis of the detailed results of a trial. product candidates in later stage clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical trials with acceptable endpoints. in the crl, the fda raised concerns regarding the safety of adasuve based on data from three phase 1 pulmonary safety studies. if we do not resolve these concerns to the satisfaction of the fda, adasuve will not be approved for marketing. if our product candidates fail to show a clinically significant benefit compared to placebo, they will not be approved for marketing. the design of our clinical trials is based on many assumptions about the expected effect of our product candidates, and if those assumptions prove incorrect, the clinical trials may not produce statistically significant results. our staccato system is not similar to other approved drug delivery methods, and there is no precedent for the application of detailed regulatory requirements to our product candidates. we cannot assure you that the design of, or data collected from, the clinical trials of our product candidates will be sufficient to support the fda and foreign regulatory approvals. regulatory authorities may not approve our product candidates even if they meet safety and efficacy endpoints in clinical trials. the fda and other foreign regulatory agencies, such as the ema, can delay, limit or deny marketing approval for many reasons, including:     •   a product candidate may not be considered safe or effective;     •   the manufacturing processes or facilities we have selected may not meet the applicable requirements; and     •   changes in their approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional work on our part. part of the regulatory approval process includes compliance inspections of manufacturing facilities to ensure adherence to applicable regulations and guidelines. the regulatory agency may delay, limit or deny marketing approval of our other product candidates as a result of such inspections. in august 2010, the fda conducted a pre-approval inspection, or pai, of our manufacturing facilities at our mountain view, california headquarters. the crl we received in october 2010 regarding our nda for adasuve raised issues regarding our manufacturing processes that must be resolved before we will be allowed to market adasuve. in november and december 2012, the fda completed its second pai of our facility in mountain view, california and issued a form fda483 containing inspectional observations. the fda may not approve our manufacturing facility and practices and this would prevent us from being able to market adasuve. any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain, approval for any of our product candidates could prevent us from ever generating meaningful revenues or achieving profitability. the crl we received in october 2010 conveyed the fda’s comments regarding certain issues with our nda, including phase 1 pulmonary safety studies with adasuve, stability studies and matters related to the inspection of our manufacturing facilities. the day 80 assessment report that we received from the ema in february 2012 outlines major objections pertaining to the extrapolation of the phase 3 study population to the intended patient population, pulmonary   31 table of contents safety in patients with active airways disease and recommendations to address this issue via the risk management plan, other aspects of the risk management plan, and the need to obtain an european union good manufacturing practices certificate for the alexza manufacturing facility and commercial manufacturing process. we may never receive marketing approval for adasuve or any of our product candidates as a result of the issues raised in the crl and by the ema. our product candidates may not be approved even if they achieve their endpoints in clinical trials. regulatory agencies, including the fda, or their advisors may disagree with our trial design and our interpretations of data from preclinical studies and clinical trials. regulatory agencies may change requirements for approval even after a clinical trial design has been approved. for example, adasuve and our other product candidates combine drug and device components in a manner that the fda considers to meet the definition of a combination product under fda regulations. the fda exercises significant discretion over the regulation of combination products, including the discretion to require separate marketing applications for the drug and device components in a combination product. to date, our products are being regulated as drug products under the new drug application process administered by the fda. the fda could in the future require additional regulation of our products under the medical device provisions of the fdca. our systems are designed to comply with quality systems regulation, or qsr, which sets forth the fda’s current good manufacturing practice requirements for medical devices, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. if we fail to comply with these regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. regulatory agencies also may approve a product candidate for fewer or more limited indications than requested or may grant approval subject to the performance of post-marketing studies. in addition, regulatory agencies may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. our product candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review even if they receive marketing approval in the united states or in other countries. if we fail to comply with continuing regulations, we could lose these approvals, and the sale of any future products could be suspended. if approval is denied or limited in a country, or if a country imposes post-marketing requirements, that decision could affect our ability to market adasuve in such countries. even if we receive regulatory approval to market a particular product candidate, the fda or a foreign regulatory authority could condition approval on conducting additional costly post-approval studies or trials or could limit the scope of our approved labeling or could impose burdensome post-approval obligations, such as those required under a rems. moreover, the product may later cause adverse effects that limit or prevent its widespread use, force us to withdraw it from the market, cause the fda or a foreign regulatory authority to impose additional obligations or impede or delay our ability to obtain regulatory approvals in additional countries. in addition, we will continue to be subject to fda and foreign regulatory authority review and periodic inspections to ensure adherence to applicable regulations. after receiving marketing approval, the fda and foreign regulatory authorities could impose extensive regulatory requirements on the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping related to the product. we have filed an maa with the ema for adasuve for the rapid control of agitation in adult patients with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder and plan to seek approval to market adasuve in other countries. in february 2012, we received the day 80 assessment report from the ema that outlined major objections to our adasuve maa. because of these and any other major objections that may be raised during the review procedure, we may not receive marketing authorization from the european commission and would be unable to commercialize adasuve in the european union. alternatively, any marketing authorizations may be subject to conditions for approval or post-approval obligations. such conditions or obligations may be costly and time consuming to fulfill and may affect our operations. for example, additional clinical data may be required to confirm the safety or efficacy profile of adasuve in the target patient population. in addition, marketing authorizations are subject to periodic reviews, which, if negative, could affect our ability to commercialize adasuve in the european union.   32 table of contents if we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the fda and other applicable u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities, including the ema, or previously unknown problems with any future products, suppliers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including:     •   restrictions on the products, suppliers or manufacturing processes;     •   warning letters or untitled letters;     •   injunctions, consent decrees, or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties against us;     •   fines against us;     •   product seizures, detentions or import or export bans;     •   voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements;     •   suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals;     •   suspension or termination of any clinical trials of the products;     •   total or partial suspension of production;     •   our partner, grupo ferrer, could terminate our arrangement to commercialize adasuve in the ferrer territories, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing and commercializing adasuve;     •   refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications; and     •   denial of permission to file an application or supplement in a jurisdiction. a rems may impose regulatory burdens on our products or on healthcare providers that may make the marketing or use of our products commercially unattractive or impractical. we expect that the fda will impose a rems on adasuve, and may impose a rems on any other product candidates we may develop, as a condition of approval, or any time after approval if the fda becomes aware of new safety information and determines that a rems is necessary to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks of the drug. a rems may include various elements, such as distribution of a medication guide or a patient package insert; implementation of a communication plan to educate healthcare providers of the drug’s risks; imposition of limitations on who may prescribe or dispense the drug, including training and certification requirements; or other measures that the fda deems necessary to assure the safe use of the drug. the fda has a wide degree of discretion in deciding which elements are necessary, and it may impose elements that significantly burden our ability to market the product, or that burden healthcare providers to the extent that use of the product is severely curtailed. for adasuve, the fda recommended that the rems contains measures to ensure that the product is only available in certified healthcare facilities that have ready access to albuterol and immediate access to advanced airway management capabilities. we may never reach agreement on terms that will both satisfy the fda and permit marketing and use of adasuve in a commercially feasible manner. even if we do reach agreement with the fda about elements in a rems for adasuve that permit commercially viable marketing, in the future the fda could impose additional rems elements that substantially burden or even eliminate that viability. if we do not produce our commercial devices cost effectively, we will never be profitable. our staccato system based product candidates contain electronic and other components in addition to the active pharmaceutical ingredients. as a result of the cost of developing and producing these components, the cost to produce our product candidates, and any approved products, will likely be higher per dose than the cost to produce intravenous or oral tablet products. this increased cost of goods may prevent us from ever selling any products at a profit. in october 2011, we committed to sell adasuve to grupo ferrer for a fixed transfer price. if we are unable to manufacture adasuve at a price lower than the fixed transfer price, we will incur losses on sales to grupo ferrer. our future manufacturing costs per unit will be dependent on future demand of   33 table of contents adasuve. if we do not generate sufficient demand, our manufacturing costs will exceed the grupo ferrer fixed transfer price. the development and production of our technology entail a number of technical challenges, including achieving adequate dependability, that may be expensive or time consuming to solve. any delay in or failure to develop and manufacture any future products in a cost effective way could prevent us from generating any meaningful revenues and prevent us from becoming profitable. we rely on third parties to conduct our preclinical studies and our clinical trials. if these third parties do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, or we may be delayed in doing so. we do not have the ability to conduct preclinical studies or clinical trials independently for our product candidates. we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, academic institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct our preclinical studies and clinical trials. we are responsible for confirming that our preclinical studies are conducted in accordance with applicable regulations and that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. the fda requires us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good laboratory practices for conducting and recording the results of our preclinical studies and good clinical practices for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials, to assure that data and reported results are accurate and that the clinical trial participants are adequately protected. our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities. if the third parties conducting our clinical trials do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines, fail to comply with the fda’s good clinical practice regulations, do not adhere to our clinical trial protocols or otherwise fail to generate reliable clinical data, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product candidate being tested in such trials. problems with the third parties that manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredients in our product candidates may delay our clinical trials or subject us to liability. we do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or api, used in any of our product candidates. we have no experience in drug manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of the apis used in our product candidates, on either a clinical or commercial scale. as a result, we rely on third parties to supply the api used in each of our product candidates. we expect to continue to depend on third parties to supply the api for our product candidates and any additional product candidates we develop in the foreseeable future. an api manufacturer must meet high precision and quality standards for that api to meet regulatory specifications and comply with regulatory requirements. a contract manufacturer is subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the fda and corresponding state and foreign authorities to ensure strict compliance with current good manufacturing practice, or cgmp, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. additionally, a contract manufacturer must pass a pre-approval inspection by the fda to ensure strict compliance with cgmp prior to the fda’s approval of any product candidate for marketing. a contract manufacturer’s failure to conform with cgmp could result in the fda’s refusal to approve or a delay in the fda’s approval of a product candidate for marketing. we are ultimately responsible for confirming that the apis used in our product candidates are manufactured in accordance with applicable regulations. our third party suppliers may not carry out their contractual obligations or meet our deadlines. in addition, the api they supply to us may not meet our specifications and quality policies and procedures. if we need to find alternative suppliers of the api used in any of our product candidates, we may not be able to contract for such supplies on acceptable terms, if at all. any such failure to supply or delay caused by such contract manufacturers would have an adverse effect on our ability to continue clinical development of our product candidates or commercialize any future products. if our third party drug suppliers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with cgmp regulations, we could be subject to certain product liability claims in the event such failure to comply resulted in defective products that caused injury or harm.   34 table of contents if we experience problems with the manufacturers of components of our product candidates, our development programs may be delayed or we may be subject to liability. we outsource the manufacturing of the components of our staccato system, including the printed circuit boards, the plastic airways, and the chemical heat packages to be used in our commercial single dose device. we have no experience in the manufacturing of components, other than our chemical heat packages, and we currently lack the resources and the capability to manufacture them, on either a clinical or commercial scale. as a result, we rely on third parties to supply these components. we expect to continue to depend on third parties to supply these components for our current product candidates and any devices based on the staccato system we develop in the foreseeable future. the third-party suppliers of the components of our staccato system must meet high precision and quality standards for our finished devices to comply with regulatory requirements. a contract manufacturer is subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the fda and corresponding state and foreign authorities to ensure that our finished devices remain in strict compliance with the qsr, which sets forth the fda’s current good manufacturing practice requirements for medical devices, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. we are ultimately responsible for confirming that the components used in the staccato system are manufactured in accordance with specifications, standards and procedures necessary to ensure that our finished devices comply with the qsr or other applicable regulations. our third party suppliers may not comply with their contractual obligations or meet our deadlines, or the components they supply to us may not meet our specifications and quality policies and procedures. if we need to find alternative suppliers of the components used in the staccato system, we may not be able to contract for such components on acceptable terms, if at all. any such failure to supply or delay caused by such contract manufacturers would have an adverse effect on our ability to continue clinical development of our product candidates or commercialize any future products. in addition, the heat packages used in the single dose version of our staccato system are manufactured using certain energetic, or highly combustible, materials that are used to generate the rapid heating necessary for vaporizing the drug compound while avoiding degradation. manufacture of products containing energetic materials is regulated by the u.s. government. we have entered into a manufacture agreement with autoliv for the manufacture of the heat packages in the commercial design of our single dose version of our staccato system. if autoliv fails to manufacture the heat packages to the necessary specifications, or does not carry out its contractual obligations to supply our heat packages to us, or if the fda requires different manufacturing or quality standards than those set forth in our manufacture agreement, our clinical trials or commercialization efforts may be delayed, suspended or terminated while we seek additional suitable manufacturers of our heat packages, which may prevent us from commercializing our product candidates that utilize the single dose version of the staccato system. if we do not establish additional strategic partnerships, we will have to undertake development and commercialization efforts on our own, which would be costly and delay our ability to commercialize any future products. a key element of our business strategy is our intent to selectively partner with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies to obtain assistance for the development and potential commercialization of our product candidates. in december 2006, we entered into such a development relationship with allegro and in december 2007 we entered into a strategic relationship with endo pharmaceuticals, inc., or endo, for the development of az-003, or the endo license agreement. in january 2009, we mutually agreed with endo to terminate the endo license agreement. in june 2009, we amended the terms of our option agreement with allegro, resulting in our acquisition of allegro and the termination of the agreement in august 2009. in february 2010, we entered into a collaboration with biovail laboratories international srl, or biovail, for the commercialization of adasuve in the united states and canada. in october 2010, biovail gave us notice that it was terminating the collaboration and the collaboration terminated in january 2011. in august 2010, we entered into a license and development agreement with cypress for staccato nicotine. in october 2011, we entered into the ferrer agreement with grupo ferrer for the commercialization of adasuve in the ferrer   35 table of contents territories. we intend to enter into additional strategic partnerships with third parties to develop and commercialize our product candidates. other than cypress and grupo ferrer, we do not currently have any strategic partnerships for any of our product candidates. we face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners, and these strategic partnerships can be intricate and time consuming to negotiate and document. we may not be able to negotiate additional strategic partnerships on acceptable terms, or at all. we are unable to predict when, if ever, we will enter into any additional strategic partnerships because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with establishing strategic partnerships. if we are unable to negotiate additional strategic partnerships for our product candidates we may be forced to curtail the development of a particular candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization, reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities or undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. in addition, we will bear all the risk related to the development of that product candidate. if we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. if we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our product candidates to market and generate product revenue. if we enter into additional strategic partnerships, we may be required to relinquish important rights to and control over the development of our product candidates or otherwise be subject to terms unfavorable to us. our relationships with cypress and grupo ferrer are, and any other strategic partnerships or collaborations with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies we may establish will be, subject to a number of risks including:     •   business combinations or significant changes in a strategic partner’s business strategy may adversely affect a strategic partner’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement;     •   we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our strategic partners devote to the development or commercialization of product candidates;     •   strategic partners may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding, terminate a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new version of a product candidate for clinical testing;     •   strategic partners may not pursue further development and commercialization of products resulting from the strategic partnering arrangement or may elect to discontinue research and development programs;     •   strategic partners may not commit adequate resources to the marketing and distribution of any future products, limiting our potential revenues from these products;     •   disputes may arise between us and our strategic partners that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management’s attention and consumes resources;     •   strategic partners may experience financial difficulties;     •   strategic partners may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in a manner that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation;     •   strategic partners could independently move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; and     •   strategic partners could terminate the arrangement or allow it to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our product candidates. if we fail to gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payors and the medical community, we will not become profitable. the staccato system is a fundamentally new method of drug delivery. any future product based on our staccato system may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payors and the medical community. if these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we will not generate sufficient product revenues to become profitable. the degree of market acceptance of any of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including:     •   demonstration of efficacy and safety in clinical trials;   36 table of contents   •   the existence, prevalence and severity of any side effects;     •   potential or perceived advantages or disadvantages compared to alternative treatments;     •   perceptions about the relationship or similarity between our product candidates and the parent drug compound upon which each product candidate is based;     •   the timing of market entry relative to competitive treatments;     •   the ability to offer any future products for sale at competitive prices;     •   relative convenience, product dependability and ease of administration;     •   the strength of marketing and distribution support;     •   the sufficiency of coverage and reimbursement of our product candidates by governmental and other third-party payors; and     •   the product labeling, including the package insert, and the marketing restrictions required by the fda or regulatory authorities in other countries. our product candidates that we may develop may require expensive carcinogenicity tests. we combine small molecule drugs with our staccato system to create proprietary product candidates. some of these drugs may not have previously undergone carcinogenicity testing that is now generally required for marketing approval. we may be required to perform carcinogenicity testing with product candidates incorporating drugs that have not undergone carcinogenicity testing or may be required to do additional carcinogenicity testing for drugs that have undergone such testing. any carcinogenicity testing we are required to complete will increase the costs to develop a particular product candidate and may delay or halt the development of such product candidate. if some or all of our patents expire, are invalidated or are unenforceable, or if some or all of our patent applications do not yield issued patents or yield patents with narrow claims, competitors may develop competing products using our or similar intellectual property and our business will suffer. our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and trade secret protection for our technologies and product candidates both in the united states and other countries. we do not know whether any patents will issue from any of our pending or future patent applications. in addition, a third party may successfully circumvent our patents. our rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection against competitive products or otherwise cover commercially valuable products or processes. the degree of protection for our proprietary technologies and product candidates is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. for example:     •   we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents;     •   we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions;     •   others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;     •   the claims of our issued patents may be narrower than as filed and not sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from circumventing them;     •   it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents;     •   we may not develop additional proprietary technologies or drug candidates that are patentable;     •   our patent applications or patents may be subject to interference, opposition or similar administrative proceedings;   37 table of contents   •   any patents issued to us or our potential strategic partners may not provide a basis for commercially viable products or may be challenged by third parties in the course of litigation or administrative proceedings such as reexaminations or interferences; and     •   the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. on september 16, 2011, the leahy-smith america invents act, or the leahy-smith act, was signed into law. the leahy-smith act includes a number of significant changes to u.s. patent law. these include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. the united states patent and trademark office is currently developing regulations and procedures to govern administration of the leahy-smith act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the leahy-smith act will not become effective until one year or 18 months after its enactment. accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the leahy-smith act will have on the operation of our business. however, the leahy-smith act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. even if valid and enforceable patents cover our product candidates and technologies, the patents will provide protection only for a limited amount of time. our potential strategic partners’ ability to obtain patents is uncertain because, to date, some legal principles remain unresolved, there has not been a consistent policy regarding the breadth or interpretation of claims allowed in patents in the united states, and the specific content of patents and patent applications that are necessary to support and interpret patent claims is highly uncertain due to the complex nature of the relevant legal, scientific and factual issues. furthermore, the policies governing pharmaceutical and medical device patents outside the united states may be even more uncertain. changes in either patent laws or interpretations of patent laws in the united states and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. our current patents or any future patents that may be issued regarding our product candidates or methods of using them, can be challenged by our competitors who can argue that our patents are invalid and/or unenforceable. third parties may challenge our rights to, or the scope or validity of, our patents. patents also may not protect our product candidates if competitors devise ways of making these or similar product candidates without legally infringing our patents. the federal food, drug and cosmetic act and the fda regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to challenge patent validity or create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug or device in order to facilitate the approval of generic substitutes. these same types of incentives encourage manufacturers to submit new drug applications that rely on literature and clinical data not prepared for or by the drug sponsor. we also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. however, trade secrets are difficult to protect. the employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors of our company and our strategic partners may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors. enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. failure to protect or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. our research and development collaborators may have rights to publish data and other information in which we have rights. in addition, we sometimes engage individuals or entities to conduct research that may be relevant to our business. the ability of these individuals or entities to publish or otherwise publicly disclose data and other information generated during the course of their research is subject to certain contractual limitations. these contractual provisions may be insufficient or inadequate to protect our trade secrets and may impair our patent rights. if we do not apply for patent protection prior to such publication or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be jeopardized.   38 table of contents litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend time and money and could shut down some of our operations. our commercial success depends in part on not infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties. others have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering products that are similar to our product candidates, as well as methods of making or using similar or identical products. if these patent applications result in issued patents and we wish to use the claimed technology, we would need to obtain a license from the third party. we may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. in addition, administrative proceedings, such as interferences and reexaminations before the u.s. patent and trademark office, could limit the scope of our patent rights. we may incur substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel as a result of our involvement in such proceedings. in particular, our patents and patent applications may be subject to interferences in which the priority of invention may be awarded to a third party. we do not know whether our patents and patent applications would be entitled to priority over patents or patent applications held by such a third party. our issued patents may also be subject to reexamination proceedings. we do not know whether our patents would survive reexamination in light of new questions of patentability that may be raised following their issuance. third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology or their proprietary products without authorization. in addition, third parties may already have or may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies or our products infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel in defending our self against any of these claims. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell any future products and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. we may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. in that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. in the event we cannot develop alternative methods or products, we may be effectively blocked from developing, commercializing or selling any future products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses would be expensive and could prevent us from commercializing any future products. we review from time to time publicly available information concerning the technological development efforts of other companies in our industry. if we determine that these efforts violate our intellectual property or other rights, we intend to take appropriate action, which could include litigation. any action we take could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel in enforcing our patents or other intellectual property rights against others. furthermore, the outcome of any action we take to protect our rights may not be resolved in our favor. competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. if our competitors are able to develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less costly than any future products that we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. we face competition from established as well as emerging pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than any future products that we may develop and commercialize. in addition, significant delays in the development of our product candidates could allow our competitors to bring products to market before us and impair our ability to commercialize our product candidates. we anticipate that, if approved, adasuve would compete with other available antipsychotic drugs for the treatment of agitation, such as intramuscular formulations, which are approved for the treatment of agitation, oral tablets and oral solutions, which are not approved for the treatment of agitation. we anticipate that, if approved, az-007 would compete with non-benzodiazepine gaba-a receptor agonists. we are aware of more than 13 approved generic versions of zolpidem, or zaleplon, oral tablets, as well as at least one   39 table of contents insomnia product, a version of zolpidem intended to treat middle of the night awakening, that is under review by the fda. additionally, we are aware of one product in phase 3 development for the treatment of insomnia. we anticipate that, if approved, az-104 would compete with currently marketed triptan drugs and with other migraine headache treatments. in addition, we are aware of at least one new migraine product under review by the fda, which is an inhaled formulation, and at least four new product candidates in late-phase development for the treatment of migraines. we anticipate that, if approved, az-003 would compete with some of the available forms of fentanyl, including injectable fentanyl, oral transmucosal fentanyl formulations and ionophoretic transdermal delivery of fentanyl. we are also aware of two fentanyl products approved by regulatory agencies in the united states or abroad, and at least 4 products in phase 3 clinical trial development for acute pain. in addition, if approved, az-003 would compete with various generic opioid drugs, such as oxycodone, hydrocodone and morphine, or combination products including one or more of such drugs. we anticipate that, if approved, az-002 would compete with the oral tablet form of alprazolam and possibly iv and oral forms of other benzodiazepines. many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. established pharmaceutical companies may invest heavily to discover quickly and develop novel compounds or drug delivery technology that could make our product candidates obsolete. smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through strategic partnerships with large and established companies. in addition, these third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving fda approval or discovering, developing and commercializing products before we do. if we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition will suffer. if we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into additional agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may be unable to generate significant product revenue. we do not have an internal sales organization and we have no experience in the sales and distribution of pharmaceutical products. there are risks involved with establishing our own sales capabilities and increasing our marketing capabilities, as well as entering into arrangements with third parties to perform these services. developing an internal sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. on the other hand, if we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues or the profitability of these product revenues are likely to be lower than if we market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. we may establish our own specialty sales force and/or engage additional pharmaceutical or other healthcare companies with an existing sales and marketing organization and distribution systems to sell, market and distribute any future products. we are currently seeking partners for the development and commercialization of adasuve in addition to the commercial partnership we entered into with grupo ferrer. we also intend to seek international distribution partners in addition to grupo ferrer for our product candidates. we may not be able to establish a specialty sales force or establish sales and distribution relationships on acceptable terms. factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize any future products without strategic partners or licensees include:     •   our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel;     •   the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe any future products;     •   the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and   40 table of contents   •   unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. because the establishment of sales and marketing capabilities depends on the progress towards commercialization of our product candidates and because of the numerous risks and uncertainties involved with establishing our own sales and marketing capabilities, we are unable to predict when, if ever, we will establish our own sales and marketing capabilities. if we are not able to partner with additional third parties and are unsuccessful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our product candidates. we are highly dependent on our president and chief executive officer, thomas b. king, the loss of whose services might adversely impact the achievement of our objectives. in addition, recruiting and retaining qualified clinical, scientific and engineering personnel to manage clinical trials of our product candidates and to perform future research and development work will be critical to our success. there is currently a shortage of skilled executives in our industry, which is likely to continue. as a result, competition for skilled personnel is intense and the turnover rate can be high. although we believe we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, competition for experienced management and clinical, scientific and engineering personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so on acceptable terms. in addition, we do not have employment agreements with any of our employees, and they could leave our employment at will. we have change of control agreements with our executive officers and vice presidents that provide for certain benefits upon termination or a change in role or responsibility in connection with a change of control of our company. we do not maintain life insurance policies on any employees. failure to attract and retain personnel would prevent us from developing and commercializing our product candidates. if plaintiffs bring product liability lawsuits against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of the product candidates that we may develop. we face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of our product candidates in clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercialize any products. we may be held liable if any product we develop causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in decreased demand for any product candidates or products that we may develop, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trials, costs to defend litigation, substantial monetary awards to clinical trial participants or patients, loss of revenue and the inability to commercialize any products that we develop. we have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials up to a $10 million aggregate annual limit. we intend to expand product liability insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for adasuve or any other products that we may develop. however, this insurance may be prohibitively expensive, or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or delay the commercialization of our product candidates. if we are sued for any injury caused by any future products, our liability could exceed our total assets. healthcare law and policy changes, based on recently enacted legislation, may have an adverse effect on us. healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. in march 2010, president obama signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010, or, collectively, the healthcare reform act. this law substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. the healthcare reform act contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, including provisions governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement and discount programs and fraud and abuse prevention and control, which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. we anticipate that if we obtain approval for our   41 table of contents product candidates, some of our revenue and the revenue from our collaborators may be derived from u.s. government healthcare programs, including medicare. additionally, in 2009, the department of defense implemented a program pursuant to the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2008 that requires rebates, based on federal statutory pricing, from manufacturers of innovator drugs and biologics. furthermore, the healthcare reform act imposes a non-deductible fee treated as an excise tax on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers who sell “branded prescription drugs,” which includes innovator drugs and biologics (excluding generics, over-the-counter drugs, and certain orphan drugs) to u.s. government programs. we expect that the healthcare reform act and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have an adverse effect on our industry generally and our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates or could limit or eliminate our spending on development projects. in addition to this legislation, there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third-party payors to keep these costs down while expanding individual healthcare benefits. certain of these changes could impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for any product candidates that are approved or the amounts of reimbursement available for these products from governmental agencies or third-party payors, or may increase the tax obligations on life sciences companies such as ours. while it is too early to predict specifically what effect the health reform act and its implementation or any future legislation or policies will have on our business, we believe that healthcare reform may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. our product candidates az-002, az-003 and az-007 contain drug substances that are regulated by the u.s. drug enforcement administration. failure to comply with applicable regulations and requirements could harm our business. the controlled substances act imposes various registration, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, procurement and manufacturing quotas, labeling and packaging requirements, security controls and a restriction on prescription refills on certain pharmaceutical products. a principal factor in determining the particular requirements, if any, applicable to a product is its actual or potential abuse profile. the u.s. drug enforcement administration, or dea, regulates chemical compounds as schedule i, ii, iii, iv or v substances, with schedule i substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and schedule v substances the lowest risk. alprazolam, the api in az-002, is regulated as a schedule iv substance, fentanyl, the api in az-003, is regulated as a schedule ii substance, and zaleplon, the api in az-007, is regulated as a schedule iv substance. each of these product candidates is subject to dea regulations relating to manufacture, storage, distribution and physician prescription procedures, and the dea may regulate the amount of the scheduled substance that would be available for clinical trials and commercial distribution. as a schedule ii substance, fentanyl is subject to more stringent controls, including quotas on the amount of product that can be manufactured as well as a prohibition on the refilling of prescriptions without a new prescription from the physician. the dea periodically inspects facilities for compliance with its rules and regulations. failure to comply with current and future regulations of the dea could lead to a variety of sanctions, including revocation, or denial of renewal, of dea registrations, injunctions, or civil or criminal penalties and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. the single dose version of our staccato system contains materials that are regulated by the u.s. government, and failure to comply with applicable regulations could harm our business. the single dose version of our staccato system uses energetic materials to generate the rapid heating necessary for vaporizing the drug, while avoiding degradation. manufacture of products containing energetic materials is controlled by the u.s. bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives, or atf. technically, the energetic materials used in our staccato system are classified as “low explosives,” and the atf has granted us a license/permit for the manufacture of such low explosives. additionally, due to inclusion of the energetic materials in our staccato system, the u.s. department of transportation, or dot, might regulate shipments of the single dose version of our staccato system. however, the dot has granted the single dose version of our staccato system “not regulated as an explosive” status. failure to comply with the current and future regulations of the atf or dot could subject us to future liabilities and could harm our business, financial   42 table of contents condition and results of operations. furthermore, these regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or construct new facilities or could require us to incur other significant expenses in order to maintain compliance. we use hazardous chemicals and highly combustible materials in our business. any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals. we also use energetic materials in the manufacture of the chemical heat packages that are used in our single dose devices. our operations produce hazardous waste. we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge or injury from these materials. federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. we could be subject to civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. in addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use of these materials and our liability may exceed our total assets. compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. certain of our suppliers are working with these types of hazardous and energetic materials in connection with our component manufacturing agreements. in the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury caused to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, these hazardous and energetic materials. further, under certain circumstances, we have agreed to indemnify our suppliers against damages and other liabilities arising out of development activities or products produced in connection with these agreements. we will need to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls in the future as we grow and to satisfy new reporting requirements. the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the current provisions of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, or sarbanes-oxley, and rules enacted and proposed by the sec and by the nasdaq global market, will result in increased costs to us as we continue to undertake efforts to comply with rules and respond to the requirements applicable to public companies. the rules make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage as compared to the polices previously available to public companies. the impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or our board committees or as executive officers. as a public company, we need to comply with sarbanes-oxley and the related rules and regulations of the sec, including expanded disclosure, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. compliance with section 404 of sarbanes-oxley and other requirements will continue to increase our costs and require additional management resources. we have been upgrading our finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls and will need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls as we grow to satisfy new reporting requirements. we currently do not have an internal audit group. in addition, we may need to hire additional legal and accounting staff with appropriate experience and technical knowledge, and we cannot assure you that if additional staffing is necessary that we will be able to do so in a timely fashion. our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting requirements that could adversely affect our business and financial results. we are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. these entities, including the public company accounting oversight board, the sec and the nasdaq global market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by congress. on july 21, 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and protection act, or the dodd-frank act, was enacted. the dodd-frank act   43 table of contents contains significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions, some of which the securities and exchange commission, or sec, has recently implemented by adopting additional rules and regulations in areas such as the compensation of executives (“say-on-pay”). we cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. if we fail to comply with the sarbanes oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank act and associated sec rules, or any other regulations, we could be subject to a range of consequences, including restrictions on our ability to sell equity securities or otherwise raise capital funds, the de-listing of our common stock from the nasdaq global market, suspension or termination of our clinical trials, failure to obtain approval to market adasuve, restrictions on future products or our manufacturing processes, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. our workforce reduction in february 2012 and any future workforce and expense reductions may have an adverse impact on our internal programs and may divert management attention. in february 2012, we conducted a strategic reduction in our workforce of approximately 38% of our employees in order to preserve our capital resources and to manage our operating expenses. this reduction in our workforce may limit our ability to complete all of our corporate objectives. we may be required to implement further workforce and expense reductions in the future. further workforce and expense reductions could result in reduced progress on our internal programs. in addition, employees, whether or not directly affected by a reduction, may seek future employment with our business partners or our competitors. although our employees are required to sign a confidentiality agreement at the time of hire, the confidential nature of certain proprietary information may not be maintained in the course of any such future employment. in addition, the implementation of expense reduction programs may result in the diversion of efforts of our executive management team and other key employees, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, the workforce reduction may make retaining and motivating the remaining workforce more difficult, causing us to lose the services of employees that we rely upon. we could be adversely affected by violations of applicable anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act of 2010. anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act of 2010, generally prohibit directly or indirectly giving, offering, or promising anything of value to improperly induce the recipient to act, or refrain from acting, in a manner that would confer a commercial advantage. the anti-bribery provisions of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act generally prohibit directly or indirectly giving, offering or promising an inducement to a public official (broadly interpreted) to corruptly influence the official’s actions in order to obtain a commercial advantage. the recently enacted u.k. bribery act of 2010 prohibits both domestic and international bribery, as well as bribery in both the private and public sectors. in addition, an organization that “fails to prevent bribery” by anyone associated with the organization may be charged under the u.k. bribery act unless the organization can establish the defense of having implemented “adequate procedures” to prevent bribery. if we receive approval to market adasuve, we plan to adopt and implement policies and procedures to ensure that those involved in the marketing, sale, and distribution of our products are both aware of these legal requirements and committed to complying therewith. however, we cannot assure that these policies and procedures will protect us from potentially illegal acts committed by individual employees or agents. if we were found to be liable for anti-bribery law violations, we could be subject to criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. if adasuve is approved for marketing, we will be subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize our products. if adasuve or any of our other product candidates are approved for marketing, we will be subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations, such as safety reporting requirements, periodic and annual reporting requirements, and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of the promotion and marketing of our products. in addition, the manufacture, labeling, packaging, distribution, import, export, adverse   44 table of contents event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for any of our product candidates that may be approved by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. if we receive regulatory approvals to sell our products, the fda and foreign regulatory authorities may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of our products, or impose requirements for burdensome post-approval study commitments. the terms of any product approval, including labeling, may be more restrictive than we desire and could affect the commercial potential of the product. if we become aware of previously unknown problems with any of our products in the united states or overseas or at our contract manufacturers’ facilities, a regulatory agency may impose labeling changes or restrictions on our products, our strategic collaborators, our manufacturers or on us. in such an instance, we could experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products, our product revenues and reputation in the marketplace may suffer, and we could become the target of lawsuits. the fda and other governmental authorities also actively enforce regulations prohibiting off-label promotion, and the government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion. the government has also required companies to enter into complex corporate integrity agreements and/or non-prosecution agreements that impose significant reporting and other burdens on the affected companies. if we are approved for marketing, we will also be subject to regulation by regional, national, state and local agencies, including the dea, the department of justice, the federal trade commission, the office of inspector general of the u.s. department of health and human services and other regulatory bodies, as well as governmental authorities in those foreign countries in which we may in the future commercialize our products. the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, the public health service act, the social security act, and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including preclinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information, promotion, marketing, and pricing to government purchasers and government healthcare programs. any manufacturing, licensing, or commercialization partners we have or may in the future have, including grupo ferrer, will be subject to many of the same requirements. the federal anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under medicare, medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. this statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical companies on one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common manufacturer business arrangements and activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. many pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been investigated and have reached substantial financial settlements with the federal government under these laws for a variety of alleged marketing activities, including providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; providing consulting fees, grants, free travel, and other benefits to physicians to induce them to prescribe the company’s products; and inflating prices reported to private price publication services, which are used to set drug payment rates under government healthcare programs. we intend to comply with the exemptions and safe harbors whenever possible, but our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. the federal false claims act prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. although we will not directly file claims, companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the marketing of their products for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have also been prosecuted on other legal theories of medicare and medicaid fraud. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in   45 table of contents several states, apply regardless of the payor. several states now require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and to report gifts and payments to individual physicians in the states. other states prohibit providing meals to prescribers or other marketing-related activities. in addition, california, connecticut, nevada, and massachusetts require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes. currently, several additional states are considering similar proposals. compliance with various federal and state laws is difficult and time consuming, and companies that violate them may face substantial penalties. the potential sanctions include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a company’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. because of the breadth of these laws and the lack of extensive legal guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of these laws if any of our product candidates are approved for marketing. such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. the number and complexity of both federal and state laws continues to increase, and additional governmental resources are being added to enforce these laws and to prosecute companies and individuals who are believed to be violating them. in particular, the federal anti-kickback statute and the federal false claims act include a number of provisions aimed at strengthening the government’s ability to pursue anti-kickback and false claims cases against pharmaceutical manufacturers and other healthcare entities, including substantially increased funding for healthcare fraud enforcement activities, enhanced investigative powers, amendments to the false claims act that make it easier for the government and whistleblowers to pursue cases for alleged kickback and false claim violations. while it is too early to predict what effect these changes will have on our business, we anticipate that government scrutiny of pharmaceutical sales and marketing practices will continue for the foreseeable future and subject us to the risk of government investigations and enforcement actions if any of our product candidates are approved for marketing. responding to a government investigation or enforcement action would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. if we or any of our partners fail to comply with applicable federal, state, local, or foreign regulatory requirements, we or they could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our or our partners’ ability to commercialize our products if any of our products are approved for marketing and could harm or prevent sales of the affected products, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products if any of our products are approved for marketing. any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business. our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could damage our facilities and equipment, which could cause us to curtail or cease operations. our facilities are located in the san francisco bay area near known earthquake fault zones and, therefore, are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. we are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, such as power loss, fire, floods and similar events. if any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. we currently may not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other similar significant business interruptions, and we do not plan to purchase additional insurance to cover such losses due to the cost of obtaining such coverage. any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks relating to owning our common stock our stock price has been and may continue to be extremely volatile. our common stock price has experienced large fluctuations. in addition, the trading prices of life science and biotechnology company stocks in general have experienced extreme price fluctuations in recent years. the valuations of many life science companies without consistent product revenues and earnings are extraordinarily   46 table of contents high based on conventional valuation standards, such as price to revenue ratios. these trading prices and valuations may not be sustained. any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of life science or biotechnology companies could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. other broad market and industry factors may decrease the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions such as terrorism, military conflict, recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, also may decrease the trading price of our common stock. in addition, our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including:     •   actual or anticipated regulatory approvals or non-approvals of our product candidates or competing products;     •   actual or anticipated cash depletion of our financial resources     •   actual or anticipated results and timing of our clinical trials;     •   changes in laws or regulations applicable to our product candidates;     •   changes in the expected or actual timing of our development programs, including delays or cancellations of clinical trials for our product candidates;     •   period to period fluctuations in our operating results;     •   announcements of new technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors;     •   changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;     •   sales results for adasuve, if it is approved for marketing;     •   our ability to manufacture our product candidates at a cost effective price, if approved for marketing;     •   conditions or trends in the life science and biotechnology industries;     •   changes in the market valuations of other life science or biotechnology companies;     •   developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulations;     •   announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;     •   additions or departures of key personnel;     •   disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;     •   sales of our common stock (or other securities) by us; and     •   sales and distributions of our common stock by our stockholders. in the past, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. if a stockholder files a securities class action suit against us, we would incur substantial legal fees, and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation. if we sell shares of our common stock in future financings, existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. we will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations, to develop our product candidates and to develop our manufacturing capabilities. we may obtain such financing through the sale of our equity securities from time to time. as a result, our existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution upon any such issuance. for example, in august 2009 we issued 10,000,000 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase an additional 5,000,000 shares of our common stock in connection with the closing of our acquisition of all of the equity of allegro, in october 2009 we issued 8,107,012 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase an additional 7,296,312 shares of our common stock in a private placement, in may 2010 we issued a   47 table of contents warrant to purchase 376,394 shares of our common stock in connection with a secured term debt financing, in august 2010 we issued 6,685,183 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase up to an additional 3,342,589 shares of our common stock in a registered direct offering and in may 2011 we issued 11,927,034 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase up to an additional 4,174,457 shares of our common stock in a registered direct offering. in february 2012 we issued 44,000,000 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase up to an additional 44,000,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering. in may 2010, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement with azimuth that provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein, azimuth is committed to purchase up to 8,936,550 shares of our common stock at times and in amounts determined by us. if we enter into other financing transactions in which we issue equity securities in the future, our existing common stockholders will experience immediate dilution upon any such issuance. if we fail to regain compliance with the listing requirements of the nasdaq global market, we may be delisted and the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively impacted. our common stock is currently listed on the nasdaq global market. to maintain the listing of our common stock on the nasdaq global market, we are required to meet certain listing requirements, including, among others, either: (i) a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share, a market value of publicly held shares (excluding shares held by our executive officers, directors and 10% or more stockholders) of at least $5 million and stockholders’ equity of at least $10 million; or (ii) a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share, a market value of publicly held shares (excluding shares held by our executive officers, directors and 10% or more stockholders) of at least $15 million and a total market value of listed securities of at least $50 million. on january 31, 2012, we received a notice from the nasdaq stock market indicating that our common stock had not met the $1.00 per share minimum closing bid price requirement for 30 consecutive business days and that, if we were unable to demonstrate compliance with this requirement during the applicable grace periods, our common stock would be delisted after that time. in accordance with the nasdaq marketplace rules, we have been provided an initial compliance period of 180 calendar days, or until july 30, 2012, to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement. to regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days prior to july 30, 2012. if we do not regain compliance by july 30, 2012, we may be eligible for an additional grace period if we satisfy certain conditions, including applying to transfer the listing of our common stock to the nasdaq capital market and satisfying the listing standards for the nasdaq capital market, with the exception of the minimum closing bid price requirement. if the nasdaq stock market staff determines that we would not be able to cure the minimum closing bid price deficiency, or if we are otherwise not eligible for such additional compliance period, the nasdaq stock market will provide notice that our common stock will be subject to delisting. we would have the right to appeal a determination to delist our common stock, and the common stock would remain listed on the nasdaq global market until the completion of the appeal process. the closing bid price of our common stock on the nasdaq global market was $0.64 on march 1, 2012, and has been below $1.00 each trading day since december 7, 2011. as a result, we may be subject to a delisting of our common stock from the nasdaq global market if we do not regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement. we may seek stockholder approval to effect a reverse stock split for this purpose. however, a reverse stock split may not prevent the common stock from dropping back down below the nasdaq global market minimum closing bid price requirement in the future. it is also possible that we would otherwise fail to satisfy another nasdaq global market requirement for continued listing of our common stock. as of march 1, 2012, the total market value of our publicly held shares of our common stock (excluding shares held by our executive officers, directors and 10% or more stockholders) was $71.8 million and the total market value of our listed securities was $74.3 million. as of december 31, 2011, we had stockholders’ deficit of $9.7 million. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining our listing of our common stock on the nasdaq global market, or, if transferred, on the nasdaq capital market, and could be subject to delisting. this could impair the liquidity and market price of our common stock. in addition, the delisting of our common stock from a national exchange could materially adversely affect our access to capital markets, and any limitation on market liquidity or reduction in the price of our common stock as a result of that delisting could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all.   48 table of contents item 1b. unresolved