item 1a. risk factors the risks included here are not exhaustive or exclusive. other sections of this annual report may include additional factors which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial performance. we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. risks relating to our business we have a limited history of operations, have not generated significant revenue from operations and have had limited production of our pv modules. we have a limited operating history and have generated limited revenue from operations. currently we are in limited production utilizing a combination of equipment from our production lines. under our current business plan, we expect losses to continue until annual production reaches approximately 30 mw or more. we plan to continue manufacturing at our current facilities; however, our plans are to have significant future production capacity enabled through partnerships, joint ventures or other commercial or licensing arrangements. our ability to achieve our business, commercialization and expansion objectives will depend on a number of factors, including whether: • we successfully augment our manufacturing capabilities by licensing our proprietary manufacturing processes to others; • we successfully ramp up commercial production on the equipment installed and to be installed in our own production lines; •our products are successfully and timely certified for use in our target markets; • we successfully qualify production tools to achieve the efficiencies, throughput and yield necessary to reach our cost targets as we expand our rated production capacity; •the cost models on which we intend to rely for the manufacture of our pv modules prove accurate; • our strategic alliance with tfg radiant results in the manufacture and sale of sufficient products based on our proprietary technology; • we raise sufficient capital to expand our total rated capacity to a level that will enable us to reach the economies of scale we believe necessary to achieve profitability; •we receive timely delivery of production tools from our equipment suppliers; •we effectively manage the planned expansion of our operations; and • we successfully develop and maintain strategic relationships with key partners, including oems, system integrators and distributors, who deal directly with end-users in our target markets. each of these factors is critical to our success, and accomplishing each of these tasks may take longer or cost more than expected, or may never be accomplished. it also is likely that problems that we cannot now anticipate will arise. if we cannot 8 table of contents overcome these problems, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we have to date incurred net losses and may be unable to generate sufficient sales in the future to become profitable. we incurred a net loss of $105.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 and reported an accumulated deficit of $183.0 million as of december 31, 2011. we expect to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including the growth rate of the solar energy industry, market acceptance of thin-film and other pv modules, the competitiveness of our pv modules and our ability to increase production volumes. if we are unable to generate sufficient revenue to achieve profitability and positive cash flows, we might be unable to satisfy our commitments and may have to discontinue operations. our business is based on a new and unproven technology, and if our pv modules or processes fail to achieve the performance and cost metrics that we expect, then we may be unable to develop demand for our pv modules and generate sufficient revenue to support our operations. our cigs on flexible plastic substrate technology is a new and unproven technology in commercial scale production. our business plan and strategies assume that we will be able to achieve certain milestones and metrics in terms of throughput, uniformity of cell efficiencies, yield, encapsulation, packaging, cost and other production parameters. we cannot assure you that our technology will prove to be commercially viable in accordance with our plan and strategies. further, we or our strategic partners and licensees may experience operational problems with such technology after its commercial introduction that could delay or defeat the ability of such technology to generate revenue or operating profits. if we are unable to achieve our targets on time and within our planned budget, then we may not be able to develop adequate demand for our pv modules, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce improved pv products could render our pv modules uncompetitive or obsolete and reduce our net sales and market share. our success requires that we invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the solar energy industry. however, research and development activities are inherently uncertain, and we could encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. our expenditures on research and development may not be sufficient to produce the desired technological advances, or they may not produce corresponding benefits. our pv modules may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of our competitors, which could harm our results of operations and adversely impact our net sales and market share. failure to expand our manufacturing capacity successfully at our facilities or through strategic alliances would adversely impact our ability to sell pv modules into our target markets and would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our growth plan calls for the installation and operation of additional production tools at our facilities and to have significant future production capacity enabled through partnerships, joint ventures or other commercial or licensing arrangements. the successful completion and operation of future production tools will require substantial engineering resources and is subject to significant risks, including risks of cost overruns and delays, risks that we may not be able to successfully acquire, install, combine or operate the equipment needed, or the possibility that one or more of the production tools may never be qualified or become operational. furthermore, we may never be able to operate our production processes in high volume or at the volumes projected, make planned process and equipment improvements, attain projected manufacturing yields or desired annual capacity, obtain timely delivery of production tools, obtain on reasonable terms adequate facilities in which to install the production tools, or hire and train the additional employees and management needed to operate and maintain the production tools. in addition, our strategic alliances may not result in future production capacity in the amounts we anticipate or at all. failure to meet these objectives on time and within our planned budget could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to manage the expansion of our operations and strategic alliances effectively. we will need to significantly expand our operations and form beneficial strategic alliances in order to reduce the incremental manufacturing costs of our pv modules through economies of scale and partnerships, secure contracts of commercially material amounts with reputable customers and capture a meaningful share of our target markets. to manage the rapid expansion of our operations and alliances, we will be required to improve our operational and financial systems, oversight, procedures and controls and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. our management team will also be required to maintain and cultivate our relationships with partners, customers, suppliers and other third parties and attract new partners, customers and suppliers. in addition, our current and planned operations, personnel, facility size and configuration, systems and 9 table of contents internal procedures and controls, even when augmented through strategic alliances, might be inadequate or insufficient to support our future growth. if we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures, resulting in a material and adverse effect to our business, results of operations and financial condition. failure to receive timely delivery of production tools from our equipment suppliers could delay our planned expansion of manufacturing capacity and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. although a significant amount of our production tools have been delivered, our planned expansion of our own manufacturing capacity depends on the timely delivery of production tools from our equipment suppliers and our good working relations with those suppliers. we cannot be certain that the equipment orders we place with these suppliers will be fulfilled as we expect or in a timely manner, or that we can preserve good working relationships, especially as we adjust delivery of outstanding orders. if delivery of the remaining production tools is not made on schedule or at all, then we might be unable to carry out our own manufacturing expansion plans, produce pv modules in the volumes and at the times that we expect or generate sufficient revenue from operations, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, certain process steps in our manufacturing process have machinery that is currently purchased from a single vendor. if we are unable to purchase certain equipment from a single source vendor, our operations or our expansion plans could be negatively affected. plans for an additional production facility to be built pursuant to our joint development agreement with tfg radiant contemplate the incorporation of additional advances in equipment design. if the planned changes to this equipment are not achievable by the equipment suppliers or take longer to implement than planned, timing for the additional production facility could be delayed or may not occur at all. we depend on a limited number of third party suppliers for key raw materials, and their failure to perform could cause manufacturing delays and impair our ability to deliver pv modules to customers in the required quality and quantity and at a price that is profitable to us. our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our pv modules or increase our manufacturing cost. most of our key raw materials are either sole-sourced or sourced by a limited number of third party suppliers. as a result, the failure of any of our suppliers to perform could disrupt our supply chain and impair our operations. many of our suppliers are small companies that may be unable to supply our increasing demand for raw materials as we implement our planned expansion. we may be unable to identify new suppliers in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. raw materials from new suppliers may also be less suited for our technology and yield pv modules with lower conversion efficiencies, higher failure rates and higher rates of degradation than pv modules manufactured with the raw materials from our current suppliers. our planned capacity expansion and continuing operations will likely require additional capital which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms, if at all or without dilution to our stockholders. our planned capacity expansion and continuing operations will likely require additional capital. we currently are unable to determine what forms of financing, if any, will be available to us. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. if we raise additional funds through debt financing, which may involve restrictive covenants, our ability to operate our business may be restricted. we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. if adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products, expand capacity or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, the terms of a loan we obtained from the colorado housing and finance authority (“chfa”) in connection with our purchase and improvement of our thornton, colorado facility contain covenants that limit our ability, without the consent of chfa, to create or incur additional indebtedness (other than obligations created or incurred in the ordinary course of business); merge or consolidate with any other entity; or make loans or advances to our officers, shareholders, directors or employees. the presence of these negative covenants gives chfa the ability to bar us from engaging in certain transactions in the future that we may determine are necessary or advisable to meet our business objectives, including debt offerings and acquisitions of or by other companies. if chfa were to withhold its written consent under these or other circumstances, we could be forced to prepay such loans at a premium, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 table of contents future sales or the potential for future sales of our securities may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other securities in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock or other securities to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities. a large number of our outstanding shares are not registered under the securities act of 1933, as amended. if and when these shares are registered or become eligible for sale to the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline. we currently have certified a limited number of bipv/bapv pv modules and have recorded limited sales of such products; further, we expect that significant pv module sales will not occur for some time. in 2010, an independent laboratory certified a certain one of our prototype products under the iec 61646 standards. the successful conclusion of this testing established the viability of a flexible packaging solution that will endure over a long period of time. certain bipv/bapv applications require certification as a prerequisite to sales of the product. we are in the process of obtaining certifications where required on our products and product families. delays or obstacles in achieving these certifications could negatively impact our revenue or profitability. in addition, as we develop new products and product families, new certifications will be required. delays in obtaining these certifications could have a negative impact on our financial results. because we have not yet achieved large scale commercial production and because we believe additional pv modules will need to be certified in order for them to be commercially viable for sales into the bipv/bapv markets, we do not expect to record major bipv/bapv module sales for some time. we expect that it will be some time before we can determine whether our expectations relating to our products and their acceptance into bipv/bapv markets are confirmed. further, because we will be required to invest substantial resources in pursuing our target markets in advance of any major revenue stream that may result from such investments, an unanticipated or longer than expected delay of revenue ramp-up could put a strain on our resources, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition, and could require us to seek additional capital. if we are unable to find technologically satisfactory and economically viable packaging solutions for our products for use in target applications or markets, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. in order to be used for a particular application or in a particular market, our pv modules must be packaged in a way that satisfies the environmental and usage demands or certification requirements of the application or market. for example, the bipv/bapv market typically requires certain independent certifications, and a demonstration that the product can survive designated adverse weather and other environmental conditions for an anticipated lifecycle of twenty to twenty-five years. we have several types of packaging that are in various states of testing, but until such time as cost-effective and technologically satisfactory solutions have been demonstrated over a period of time, our sales and revenue into those affected markets may be materially limited or negatively affected. our pv modules may never gain sufficient market acceptance, in which case we would be unable to sell our pv modules or achieve profitability. demand for our pv modules may never develop sufficiently, and our pv modules may never gain market acceptance, if we fail to produce pv modules that compare favorably against competing products on the basis of cost, quality, weight, efficiency and performance. demand for our pv modules also will depend on our ability to develop and maintain successful relationships with key partners, including oems, system integrators, value-added resellers and distributors. if our pv modules fail to gain market acceptance as quickly as we envision or at all, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we are targeting emerging markets for a significant portion of our planned product sales. these markets are new and may not develop as rapidly as we expect, or may not develop at all. our target markets include bipv/bapv, defense and portable power, transportation, and space and near-space. although certain areas of the bipv/bapv market have started to develop, we believe this market, as well as the markets for portable power, and transportation are in their infancy. we believe these markets have significant long term potential, however, some or all of these markets may not develop and emerge as we expect. if the markets do develop as expected, there may be other pv products that could provide a superior product or a comparable product at lower prices than our products. if these markets do not develop as we expect, or if competitors are better able to capitalize on these markets our revenues and product margins may be negatively affected. large scale bipv/bapv may require third party financing. third party financing often requires certain “bankability” standards for the pv supplier. we may be unable to meet these standards. 11 table of contents banks and other entities providing financing for solar energy projects endeavor to reduce risk on these projects by evaluating solar product quality, completion likelihood, power purchaser credit worthiness, project model quality, and environmental factors. solar panels are typically the highest cost and most important components of the project cost. for most financing models, the solar modules must have strong power output for 20 years or longer. companies providing traditional solar modules, or companies with a longer track record with their products may be deemed the lowest risk, whereas, thin-film products, with the exception of first solar’s product, may be deemed higher risk due to product immaturity. in some cases, third party insurance indemnification can be used to address this risk. our limited operating history, the newness of our products, or our financial strength may not be as strong as our potential competitors, which may reduce the likelihood of project finance support from banks for projects involving our products resulting in our inability to sell our products into certain solar installations, which would negatively affect our revenue and profitability. failure to consummate strategic relationships with key partners in our various target market segments, such as portable power applications for defense and governmental agencies or space and near-space high value-added solar applications markets as well as the bipv/bapv and transportation markets, and the respective implementations of the right strategic partnerships to enter these various specified markets, could adversely affect our projected sales, growth and revenues. we intend to sell thin-film pv modules for use in bipv/bapv, defense and portable power systems, transportation, and space and near-space solar panel applications. our marketing and distribution strategy is to form strategic relationships with distributors and value-added resellers to provide a foothold in these target markets. if we are unable to successfully establish working relationships with such market participants or if, due to cost, technical or other factors, our pv modules prove unsuitable for use in such applications; our projected revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. further, to the extent that we are able to establish strategic relationships with key partners and distributors, those relationships may be on a non-exclusive basis (for example, our strategic relationship with tfg radiant and norsk hydro are non-exclusive), which means that our partners are not obligated to use us as their sole source of pv modules, and may instead choose to use the products of our competitors. any such reduction in demand for our pv modules may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. if sufficient demand for pv solutions does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, we may be unable to grow our business, generate sufficient revenue to attain profitability or continue operations. the solar energy industry is at a relatively early stage of development, and the extent to which pv modules, including our own, will be widely adopted is uncertain. if pv technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for pv modules fails to develop sufficiently, we may be unable to grow our business, generate sufficient sales to attain profitability or continue operations. many factors, many of which are outside of our control, may affect the viability of widespread adoption of pv technology and demand for pv modules, including: • the cost effectiveness of pv modules and installed pv systems relative to other renewable energy sources, such as wind, geothermal, tidal power and other pv technologies; • the cost effectiveness of pv modules and installed pv systems relative to conventional carbon based and other energy sources, such as coal, oil, natural gas and nuclear, and whether the levelized cost of pv can approach that of these conventional energy sources; • whether pv-generated power reaches grid parity in the geographic markets where our products will be used; • the availability and amount of government subsidies and incentives to support development of the solar energy industry; • the deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry; • the emergence of other disruptive technologies in the energy industry; • the ease with which pv solutions can penetrate and adapt to existing energy industry infrastructure; • the availability of raw materials used in the manufacture of pv products; and • availability of capital to fund development of technology in the solar energy market. we face intense competition from manufacturers of c-si-based pv modules, other manufacturers of thin-film pv modules and other companies in the solar energy industry. 12 table of contents the solar energy and renewable energy industries are both highly competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to distinguish themselves within their markets and compete with the larger electric power industry. we believe that our main sources of competition are c-si pv manufacturers, other thin-film pv manufacturers and companies developing other solar solutions, such as solar thermal and concentrated pv technologies. the thin-film component of the industry is largely made up of a broad mix of technology platforms at various stages of development, and consists of a large and growing number of medium and small companies. two of the largest thin-film pv manufacturers are first solar and energy conversion. first solar manufactures pv modules using cdte affixed to glass. energy conversion manufactures pv modules using a-si affixed to flexible metal foil. competitors currently developing or selling cigs-based pv modules include avancis gmbh & co. kg, daystar technologies, inc., flisom ag, global solar energy, inc., heliovolt corporation, miasolé, nanosolar, inc., nuvosun, inc., odersun ag, q-cells se, solibro gmbh, solarion ag, solar frontier, solopower, inc., stion and würth solar gmbh & co. we believe that a number of manufacturers that traditionally have manufactured and sold c-si-based modules have entered, or in the future may enter, the market for thin-film pv modules and, potentially, cigs-based pv modules. many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. a competitor’s greater size provides them with a competitive advantage because they often can realize economies of scale and purchase certain raw materials at lower prices. many of our competitors also have greater brand name recognition, established distribution networks and large customer bases. in addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential partners and distributors and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. as a result of their greater size, these competitors may be able to devote more resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions than we can. our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or future competitors could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. a significant decrease in the price of c-si-based pv modules could lead to pricing pressures on pv modules generally and force us to reduce the sales price of our pv modules. during 2011 there was a significant decrease in the prices of c-si-based pv modules. this led to pricing pressures on pv modules generally. in the face of such current and future downward pricing pressures, we might be forced to reduce the sales prices of our pv modules, which, absent a commensurate decrease in our manufacturing costs, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and prevent us from achieving profitability. problems with product quality or performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses, damage our market reputation and prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market share. we do not have sufficient life cycle data for our thin-film pv modules to reliably predict their lifespan in the field. pending collection of such data over time, we may not be able to offer customers warranty terms equivalent to those of our competitors, which may adversely impact sales or market acceptance of our pv modules. further, even if we offer warranty terms equivalent to those of our competitors, at this time we cannot guarantee that our pv modules will perform as expected during the lifespan that our customers will expect. if our pv modules fail to perform as expected while under warranty, or if we are unable to support the warranties, sales of our pv modules may be adversely affected or our costs may increase, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may also be subject to warranty or product liability claims against us that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of our available insurance limits. in addition, quality issues can have various other ramifications, including delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue, loss of future sales opportunities, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and reputation. the possibility of future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expenses to repair or replace defective products. furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and reduce our market share and cause sales to decline. if the supply of pv modules exceeds the demand for those modules, then we may be forced to reduce the price of our pv modules in order to compete effectively. throughout 2011, there were reductions in the then-current and expected average selling prices for pv modules. this was a result of many factors, most significantly the increased industry-wide manufacturing capacity, which has contributed to excess industry channel supply. in addition, there was a concurrent scaling back of government subsidies and incentives related to solar energy, which reduced industry demand. if either the overall pv module market or our target markets continue to encounter an overcapacity scenario, we may be forced to scale back our business plan. if government subsidies or incentives are discontinued, further reduced or substantially modified, or if renewable portfolio standards or similar production requirements are changed or eliminated, demand for our pv modules in the affected country or countries could decline or never 13 table of contents develop. in either case, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. a u.s. and global economic downturn could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the 2008 financial crisis and ensuing recession affected the banking system and financial markets, resulting in a tightening in the credit markets; a low level of liquidity in many financial markets; and extreme volatility in credit, fixed income, and equity markets. the recent european sovereign debt crisis has had a negative effect on world economic growth, which has increased concerns about global economic recovery and a possibility of further recession. much like the 2008 financial crisis, there could be a number of follow-on effects from the current crisis on our business, including increased expense or inability to obtain debt financing or raise additional capital; insolvency of key suppliers, resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products; decreased discretionary spending on bipv/bapv products; less new construction and building improvement projects, and/or customer insolvencies. the continued economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our assets will differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. the recent solvency concerns in greece, ireland and spain could have an impact on the existence and magnitude of government sponsored initiatives related to solar installations and projects in europe. our success in the bipv/bapv markets can be affected by governmental subsidies for pv installations. any reduction in existing or planned subsidies could negatively impact our future revenues in these market segments. the interests of our largest stockholder, tfg radiant, may conflict with our interests or your interests now or in the future. tfg radiant currently owns approximately 19% of our common stock and has contracted to purchase shares which will result in ownership of approximately 39% of our common stock upon completion. in addition, should tfg radiant exercise its option to acquire more shares of common stock, we expect that it would hold over 50% of our voting stock. as a result of its large holding of our shares, tfg radiant may have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders regardless of whether other stockholders believe that any such transaction is in their own best interests, with the exception of certain agreements tfg radiant has made pursuant to the amended and restated stockholders agreement. tfg radiant also has certain registration rights that could impact shareholders. additionally, tfg radiant currently holds one seat on our board of directors (and will obtain rights to a second board seat upon the closing of the currently pending acquisition of shares from norsk hydro), which affords tfg radiant greater control and influence over matters affecting our business. on february 1, 2012, mr. victor lee was appointed by our board as our president and chief executive officer. mr. lee has served on our board since november 2011. mr. lee is the managing director of tertius financial group pte ltd, the joint venture partner with radiant group in tfg radiant. as president and chief executive officer, mr. lee will not receive any cash, equity or other compensation from us. tfg radiant may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. tfg radiant also may pursue opportunities (including by acquisition) that may be adverse to, or be in direct or indirect competition with us. additionally, our potential customers may be competitors of tfg radiant and our interests in selling to those customers could be divergent from tfg radiant’s competitive interests. so long as tfg radiant continues to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock and mr. lee is president and chief executive officer, tfg radiant may be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. currency translation risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of equipment, cost of sales, gross margin or profitability and could result in exchange losses. although our reporting currency is the u.s. dollar, we may conduct business and incur costs in the local currencies of other countries in which we operate, make sales or buy equipment or materials. as a result, we are subject to currency translation risk. our future contracts and obligations may be exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and, as a result, our capital expenditures or other costs may exceed what we have budgeted. further, changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar could affect our net sales and cost of sales and could result in exchange losses. we cannot accurately predict future exchange rates or the overall impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our business, results of operations and financial condition. a significant increase in the price of our raw materials could lead to higher overall costs of production, which would negatively affect our planned product margins, or make our products uncompetitive in the pv market. our raw materials include high temperature plastics and various metals. significant increases in the costs of these raw materials may impact our ability to compete in our target markets at a price sufficient to produce a profit. 14 table of contents our intellectual property rights or our means of enforcing those rights may be inadequate to protect our business, which may result in the unauthorized use of our products or reduced sales or otherwise reduce our ability to compete. our business and competitive position depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology, including any pv modules that we develop. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights, primarily in the united states, through a combination of patent, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. because of the differences in foreign patent and other laws concerning intellectual property rights, our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the united states. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. further, any patents issued in connection with our efforts to develop new technology for pv modules may not be broad enough to protect all of the potential uses of our technology. we also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute proprietary information and invention assignment agreements when they begin working for us. we cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of any such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. if we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. in addition, when others control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as technology licensed to us, the protection and enforcement of the intellectual property rights may be outside of our control. if the entity that controls intellectual property rights that are licensed to us does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize our products. further, if we breach the terms of any license agreement pursuant to which a third party licenses us intellectual property rights, our rights under that license may be affected and we may not be able to continue to use the licensed intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our ability to develop, market and commercialize our products. if third parties claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we could be prohibited from selling our pv modules, be required to obtain licenses from third parties or be forced to develop non-infringing alternatives, and we could be subject to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. the pv industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. we are aware of numerous issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties that may relate to current and future generations of solar energy. the owners of these patents may assert that the manufacture, use or sale of any of our products infringes one or more claims of their patents. moreover, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that materially and adversely affect our business. third parties could also assert claims against us that we have infringed or misappropriated their intellectual property rights. whether or not such claims are valid, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of such third parties. any infringement or misappropriation claim could result in significant costs or substantial damages to our business or an inability to manufacture, market or sell any of our pv modules that are found to infringe or misappropriate. even if we were to prevail in any such action, the litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of resources that could materially and adversely affect our business. the large number of patents, the rapid rate of new patent issuances, the complexities of the technology involved and uncertainty of litigation increase the risk of business assets and management’s attention being diverted to patent litigation. even if obtaining a license were feasible, it could be costly and time consuming. we might be forced to obtain additional licenses from our existing licensors in the event that the scope of the intellectual property we have licensed is too narrow to cover our activities, or in the event that the licensor did not have sufficient rights to grant us the license(s) purported granted. also, some of our licenses may restrict or limit our ability to grant sublicenses and/or assign rights under the licenses to third parties, which may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. our future success depends on retaining our chief executive officer and existing management team and hiring and assimilating new key employees and our inability to attract or retain key personnel would materially harm our business and results of operations. our success depends on the continuing efforts and abilities of our executive officers, including mr. victor lee, our president and chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key technical personnel. our future success also will depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees, including management, technical and sales personnel. the loss of any 15 table of contents of our key personnel, the inability to attract, retain or assimilate key personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. our pv modules contain limited amounts of cadmium sulfide, and claims of human exposure or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our pv modules contain limited amounts of cadmium sulfide, which is regulated as a hazardous material due to the adverse health effects that may arise from human exposure, and is banned in certain countries. we cannot assure you that human or environmental exposure to cadmium sulfide used in our pv modules will not occur. any such exposure could result in third party claims against us, damage to our reputation and heightened regulatory scrutiny of our pv modules. future regulation relating to the use of cadmium in various products could force us to seek regulatory exemptions or impact the manufacture and sale of our pv modules and could require us to incur unforeseen environmental-related costs. the occurrence of future events such as these could limit our ability to sell and distribute our pv modules, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. we are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of, or human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials (such as the cadmium used in our products), the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, and occupational health and safety. we are also subject to environmental laws which allow regulatory authorities to compel, or seek reimbursement for, cleanup of environmental contamination at sites now or formerly owned or operated by us and at facilities where our waste is or has been disposed. we may incur significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with these laws and regulations. in addition, violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our being subjected to substantial fines, penalties, criminal proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury claims, cleanup costs or other costs. also, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions or non-compliance may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. further, greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become the subject of international, national, state and local attention. although future regulations could potentially lead to an increased use of alternative energy, there can be no guarantee that such future regulations will encourage solar technology. given our limited history of operations, it is difficult to predict future environmental expenses. any change to our relationship with itn could disrupt certain aspects of our business operations, including our research and development activities. itn provides us with technical services at an agreed upon cost. we have relied on these services to conduct a portion of our research and development activities, including those related to development and improvements of new pv technologies that may affect the viability of our products in the future. if we are unable to continue our arrangement with itn, it could materially affect our ability to deliver on our plan. we currently anticipate having substantial international operations that will subject us to a number of risks, including potential unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in foreign countries. we expect to expand our operations abroad in the future and, as a result, we may be subject to the legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of foreign jurisdictions. risks inherent to international operations, include, but are not limited to, the following: • difficulty in procuring supplies and supply contracts abroad; • difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems; • foreign countries imposing additional withholding taxes or otherwise taxing our foreign income, imposing tariffs or adopting other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; • risk of nationalization; • changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we may operate, including changes in the government incentives we might rely on; 16 table of contents • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to environmental protection, export duties and quotas; • difficulty with staffing and managing widespread operations; • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries; and • difficulty of and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the international markets in which we plan to offer and sell our pv modules. our business in foreign markets will require us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. our overall success as an international business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. if we are not able to develop and implement policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we will do business, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. our failure to qualify for small business innovation research funding could adversely impact our revenues from research and development contracts. we currently receive funding for research and development under the small business innovation research (“sbir”) program. in 2011, our revenues generated from performance of these contracts totaled approximately $82,000. in order to continue to qualify for this funding, we must, among other things, remain american owned and independently operated and our size must remain under 500 employees. as a result of our relationship with tfg radiant and our planned expansion plans, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to qualify for sbir funding. if we fail to qualify for sbir funding, our revenues from research and development could decline or cease, and our net income and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. if the u.s. government terminates or delays any of our revenue-generating contracts with it, then the reduced funding could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. to date, we have relied heavily upon contracts with the u.s. government and federal agencies for our revenues and to fund our research and development activities. the u.s. government, as a counterparty to our agreements, generally has the right to unilaterally terminate or modify these contracts. if the u.s. government terminates or delays any of our contracts with it—for example, because of changed government priorities, budgets or appropriations—then our ability to perform or adequately fund ongoing research and development activities may be adversely affected. further, such termination or delay could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of pv products, which may significantly reduce demand for our pv modules. the market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, u.s., state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. these regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. in the united states and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future. these regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of pv products and investment in the research and development of pv technology. for example, without a mandated regulatory exception for pv systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. these fees could increase the cost to our end-users of using pv systems and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, electricity generated by pv systems mostly competes with expensive peak hour electricity, rather than the less expensive average price of electricity. modifications to the peak hour pricing policies of utilities, such as to a flat rate, would require pv systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the price of electricity from other sources. we anticipate that our pv modules and their use in installations will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. it is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to pv modules may result in significant additional expenses to us, our business partners and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our pv modules. risks relating to our securities 17 table of contents as a public company we are subject to complex legal and accounting requirements that require us to incur substantial expenses, and our financial controls and procedures may not be sufficient to ensure timely and reliable reporting of financial information, which, as a public company, could materially harm our stock price and listing on the nasdaq global market. as a public company, we are subject to numerous legal and accounting requirements that do not apply to private companies. the cost of compliance with many of these requirements is substantial, not only in absolute terms but, more importantly, in relation to the overall scope of the operations of a small company. failure to comply with these requirements can have numerous adverse consequences including, but not limited to, our inability to file required periodic reports on a timely basis, loss of market confidence, delisting of our securities and/or governmental or private actions against us. we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of these requirements or that the cost of such compliance will not prove to be a substantial competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our privately held and larger public competitors. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (“sarbanes-oxley”) requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. in particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by section 404 of sarbanes-oxley. our compliance with section 404 of sarbanes-oxley will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. the effectiveness of our controls and procedures may in the future be limited by a variety of factors, including: • faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions or mistakes; • fraudulent action of an individual or collusion of two or more people; • inappropriate management override of procedures; and • the possibility that any enhancements to controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate financial information. if we are not able to comply with the requirements of section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we may be subject to nasdaq delisting, investigations by the sec and civil or criminal sanctions. our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with section 404 requires us to be able to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. we expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new operational, financial and accounting systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively. any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls may cause our operations to suffer, and we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required under section 404 of sarbanes-oxley. if we are unable to complete the required section 404 assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, if we fail to maintain or implement adequate controls, our ability to obtain additional financing could be impaired. in addition, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting and in the accuracy of our periodic reports filed under the exchange act. a lack of investor confidence in the reliability and accuracy of our public reporting could cause our stock price to decline. the price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. our common stock is currently traded on the nasdaq global market. the trading price of our common stock from time to time has fluctuated widely and may be subject to similar volatility in the future. for example, in the calendar year ended december 31, 2011, our common stock traded as low as $0.36 and as high as $3.95, and in 2010, traded as low as $2.00 and as high as $6.19. the trading price of our common stock in the future may be affected by a number of factors, including events described in these “risk factors.” in recent years, broad stock market indices, in general, and smaller capitalization and pv companies, in particular, have experienced substantial price fluctuations. in a volatile market, we may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. these fluctuations may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. a securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. we are not currently in compliance with the minimum bid price rule of the nasdaq global market and a delisting could limit the liquidity of our stock, increase its volatility and hinder our ability to raise capital. 18 table of contents under the rules of the nasdaq global market, listed companies are required to maintain a share price of at least $1.00 per share and if the closing share price stays below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days, then the listed company would have a cure period of at least 180 days for the purpose of regaining compliance with the $1.00 per share minimum. as reported in our current report on form 8-k filed on october 13, 2011, we received notice from the nasdaq global market that we were not in compliance with the minimum bid price rule. if our share price does not sustain an increase sufficient for us to re-gain compliance during the relevant cure period ending in april 2012 we may be subject to de-listing procedures. we are considering various options that will enable us to avoid de-listing should the cure period expire, including a transfer to the nasdaq capital market in order to extend the time that we have to regain compliance, or by effecting a reverse stock split in order to increase our share price above the required $1.00 bid price. if our common stock is delisted by nasdaq, our common stock may be eligible for quotation on an over-the-counter quotation system or on the pink sheets. upon any such delisting, our common stock would become subject to the regulations of the sec relating to the market for penny stocks. a penny stock is any equity security not traded on a national securities exchange that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. the regulations applicable to penny stocks may severely affect the market liquidity for our common stock and could limit the ability of shareholders to sell securities in the secondary market. in such a case, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock, and there can be no assurance that our common stock will be eligible for trading or quotation on any alternative exchanges or markets. delisting from nasdaq could adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through public or private sales of equity securities, would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. item 1b. unresolved