item 1a. risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. if any of such risks or the risks described below occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment.   22 table of contents risks related to our business and industry our business plan relies on certain assumptions pertaining to the market for our products that, if incorrect, may adversely affect our growth and profitability. we allocate our design, development, manufacturing, marketing, management and financial resources based on our business plan, which includes assumptions about various demographic trends and trends in the treatment of spine disorders and the resulting demand for our products. however, these trends are uncertain. there can be no assurance that our assumptions with respect to an aging population with broad medical coverage and longer life expectancy, which we expect to lead to increased spinal injuries and degeneration, are accurate. in addition, an increasing awareness and use of non-invasive means for the prevention and treatment of back pain and rehabilitation purposes may reduce demand for, or slow the growth of sales of, spine fusion products. a significant shift in technologies or methods used in the treatment of back pain or damaged or diseased bone and tissue could adversely affect demand for some or all of our products. for example, pharmaceutical advances could result in non-surgical treatments gaining more widespread acceptance as a viable alternative to spine fusion. the emergence of new biological or synthetic materials to facilitate regeneration of damaged or diseased bone and to repair damaged tissue could increasingly minimize or delay the need for spine fusion surgery and provide other biological alternatives to spine fusion. new surgical procedures could diminish demand for some of our products. the increased acceptance of emerging technologies that do not require spine fusion, such as artificial discs and nucleus replacement, for the surgical treatment of spine disorders would reduce demand for, or slow the growth of sales of, spine fusion products. if our assumptions regarding these factors prove to be incorrect or if alternative treatments to those offered by our products gain further acceptance, then actual demand for our products could be significantly less than the demand we anticipate for our products and we may not be able to achieve or sustain growth or profitability. if we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer. we continue to experience rapid growth in, and we will continue to pursue rapid growth in, the number of surgeons using our products, the types of products we offer and the number of states in which our products are sold. such growth has placed and will continue to place significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. we are currently focused on increasing the size and effectiveness of our sales force and distribution network, marketing activities, research and development efforts, inventory management systems, management team and corporate infrastructure. if we do not manage our growth effectively, the quality of our products, our relationships with physicians, distributors and hospitals, and our reputation could suffer, which would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we must attract and retain qualified personnel and third-party distributors and manage and train them effectively. personnel qualified in the design, development, production and marketing of our products are difficult to find and hire, and enhancements of information technology systems to support our growth are difficult to implement. we will also need to carefully monitor and manage our surgeon services, our manufacturing capabilities, quality assurance and efficiency, and the quality assurance and efficiency of our suppliers and distributors. this managing, training and monitoring will require allocation of valuable management resources and significant expense. the efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. we rely on our management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions; manage order entry, order fulfillment and inventory replenishment processes; and maintain our research and development data. any failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and product development and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. global economic and credit market conditions could affect a portion of our client base, subcontractors and suppliers, which could materially affect our backlog and profits. volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. recent financial market conditions have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, and   23 table of contents have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. continued disruption of the credit markets could adversely affect the borrowing capacity of us or our suppliers and customers, which support the continuation and expansion of our sales worldwide, and could result in suppliers not being able to supply us with raw materials or finished goods or payment delays or defaults by our customers. in addition, in response to current market conditions, vendors or customers may choose to seek contract terms more favorable to them. finally, our ability to expand our business could be limited if, in the future, we are unable to raise capital, on favorable terms or at all. we may not be successful in manufacturing products at the levels required to meet future market demand. we are seeking to rapidly grow sales of our products and if we are successful, such growth may strain our ability to manufacture an increasingly large supply of our products. we have never produced products in quantities significantly in excess of our current production levels. manufacturers regularly experience difficulties in scaling up production and we may face such difficulties in increasing our production levels. moreover, we may not be able to manufacture our products with consistent and satisfactory quality or in sufficient quantities to meet demand. our failure to produce products of satisfactory quality or in sufficient quantities could hurt our reputation, cause hospitals, surgeons or distributors to cancel orders or refrain from placing new orders for our products and reduce or slow growth of sales of our products. increases in our production volume also could make it harder for us to maintain control over expenses, manage our relationships with our suppliers, maintain good relations with our employees or otherwise manage our business. in addition, should we not be able to achieve our revenue forecast and cash consumption starts to exceed forecasted consumption, management will need to adjust our production of surgical instruments and manage our inventory to the decreased sales volumes. if we do not make these adjustments in a timely manner, there could be an adverse impact on our financial resources. we are in a highly competitive market segment, face competition from large, well-established medical device companies with significant resources, and may not be able to compete effectively. the market for spine fusion products and procedures is intensely competitive, subject to rapid technological change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. in 2010, a large portion of u.s. spine fusion product revenues were generated by medtronic sofamor danek, a subsidiary of medtronic, inc., depuy spine, a subsidiary of johnson & johnson, stryker spine, and synthes spine. our competitors also include numerous other publicly traded companies and privately held companies. several of our competitors enjoy competitive advantages over us, including:     •   more established relationships with spine surgeons;     •   more established distribution networks;     •   broader spine surgery product offerings;     •   stronger intellectual property portfolios;     •   greater financial and other resources for product research and development, sales and marketing, and patent litigation;     •   greater experience in, and resources for, launching, marketing, distributing and selling products;     •   significantly greater name recognition as well as more recognizable trademarks for products similar to the products that we sell;     •   more established relationships with healthcare providers and payors;     •   products supported by more extensive clinical data; and     •   greater experience in obtaining and maintaining fda and other regulatory clearances or approvals for products and product enhancements.   24 table of contents in addition, at any time our current competitors or other companies may develop alternative treatments, products or procedures for the treatment of spine disorders that compete directly or indirectly with our products, including ones that prove to be superior to our spine surgery products. for these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors. any such failure could lead us to modify our strategy, lower our prices, increase the commissions we pay on sales of our products and have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a significant percentage of our revenues are derived from the sale of our systems that include polyaxial pedicle screws. net sales of our systems that include polyaxial pedicle screws represented approximately 34.0% and 37.2% of our net sales for 2010 and 2009, respectively. a decline in sales of these systems, due to market demand, the introduction by a third party of a competitive product, an intellectual property dispute involving these systems, or otherwise, would have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. some of the technology related to our polyaxial pedicle screw systems is licensed to us. any action that would prevent us from manufacturing, marketing and selling our polyaxial pedicle screw systems would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in february 2010, a complaint was filed in the u.s. district court for the central district of california, by cross medical products, llc, or cross, alleging that we breached a patent license agreement with cross by failing to make certain royalty payments allegedly due under the agreement. cross is seeking payment of prior royalties allegedly due from our sales of polyaxial pedicle screws and an order from the court regarding payment of future royalties by us. while we denied the allegations in our answer to the complaint and believe that cross’ allegations are without merit, the outcome of the litigation cannot be predicted at this time. in february 2011, the court issued an order granting cross’s motion for partial summary judgment on issues of contract interpretation. while this ruling interpreted the license agreement as asserted by cross, it was not dispositive of any claims and we continue to assert defenses and counterclaims the court preserved until a later phase of the case. any outcome in favor of cross could result in the payment of significant costs and damages by us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. to be commercially successful, we must convince the spine surgeon community that our products are an attractive alternative to our competitors’ products. if the spine surgeon community does not use our products, our sales will decline and we will be unable to increase our sales and profits. in order for us to sell our products, surgeons must be convinced that they are superior to competing products for use in spine fusion procedures. acceptance of our products depends on educating the spine surgeon community as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, safety and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to our competitors’ products and on training surgeons in the proper application of our products. if we are not successful in convincing the spine surgeon community of the merit of our products, our sales will decline and we will be unable to increase our sales and will be unable to achieve and sustain growth or profitability. there is a learning process involved for spine surgeons to become proficient in the use of our products. although most spine surgeons may have adequate knowledge on how to use most of our products based on their clinical training and experience, we believe that the most effective way to introduce and build market demand for our products is by directly training spine surgeons in the use of the products. if surgeons are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. this may also result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our sales and marketing efforts in the u.s. are largely dependent upon third parties, some of which are free to market products that compete with our products. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 30% of our independent distributors in the u.s also market and sell the products of our competitors, and those competitors may have the ability to influence the products that our   25 table of contents independent distributors choose to market and sell. our competitors may be able, by offering higher commission payments or otherwise, to convince our independent distributors to terminate their relationships with us, carry fewer of our products or reduce their sales and marketing efforts for our products. we may be unable to accurately predict future sales through distributors that purchase products directly from us, which could harm our ability to forecast sales performance. a portion of our sales are made through domestic and international third-party distributors that purchase our products directly though us and then resell such products to hospitals. as a result, our financial results, quarterly product sales, trends and comparisons are affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns and inventory levels of these distributors. while we attempt to assist such distributors in forecasting its future sales and maintaining adequate inventory levels, we may not consistently be accurate or successful. in addition, our distributors’ decision-making process regarding orders is complex and involves several factors, including surgeon demand levels, which can make it difficult to accurately predict our sales until late in a quarter. our failure to accurately forecast sales through distributors that purchase products directly from us could lead to a decline in sales and adversely affect our results of operations. scient’x conducts a significant amount of its sales activity outside of the united states, which subjects it to additional business risks and may adversely affect the combined business’s results of operations and financial condition due to increased costs. during the year ended december 31, 2010, scient’x derived approximately $23.8 million, or 82% of its net sales from sales of its products outside of the united states. the combined business intends to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, which could expose it to additional risks associated with international sales and operations that we do not currently face. scient’x’s international operations are, and the combined business’s international operations will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including:     •   changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs;     •   unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements;     •   differing local product preferences and product requirements;     •   diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the united states;     •   differing payment cycles;     •   trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;     •   difficulty in staffing, training and managing foreign operations;     •   differing legal regulations and labor relations;     •   potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws (including potentially taxes payable on earnings of foreign subsidiaries upon repatriation); and     •   political and economic instability. in addition, scient’x is subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase the combined business’s costs and may adversely affect its results of operations. the u.s. dollar value of scient’x’s foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. measured in local currency, the majority of scient’x’s foreign-generated revenues were generated in europe. significant increases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on the combined business’s results of operations. scient’x’s consolidated net sales were negatively affected by approximately 7.9% during the year ended december 31, 2010 as a result of the impact of foreign currency translation.   26 table of contents we must retain the current distributors of our products and attract new distributors of our products. as we launch new products and increase our marketing efforts with respect to existing products, we will need to expand our sales and marketing organization. we plan to accomplish this by increasing our network of independent distributors and hiring additional direct sales representatives. the establishment and development of a broader sales network and dedicated sales force may be expensive and time consuming. because of the intense competition for their services, we may be unable to recruit or retain additional qualified independent distributors and to hire additional direct sales representatives to work with us. often, our competitors enter into distribution agreements with independent distributors that require such distributors to exclusively sell the products of our competitors. further, we may not be able to enter into agreements with independent distributors on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. even if we do enter into agreements with additional independent distributors, it often takes 90 to 120 days for new distributors to reach full operational effectiveness and such distributors may not generate revenue as quickly as we expect them to, commit the necessary resources to effectively market and sell our products or ultimately be successful in selling our products. our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected if we do not retain our existing independent distributors and attract new, additional independent distributors or if the marketing and sales efforts of our independent distributors and our own direct sales representatives are unsuccessful. we depend on various third-party suppliers, and in one case a single third-party supplier, for key raw materials used in our manufacturing processes and the loss of these third-party suppliers, or their inability to supply us with adequate raw materials, could harm our business. we use a number of raw materials, including titanium, titanium alloys, stainless steel, peek, and human tissue. we rely from time to time on a number of suppliers and in one case on a single source vendor, invibio, inc. we have a supply agreement with invibio, pursuant to which it supplies us with peek, a biocompatible plastic that we use in some of our spacers. invibio is one of a limited number of companies approved to distribute peek in the u.s. for use in implantable devices. during 2010 and 2009, approximately 16% and 20%, respectively, of our revenues each year were derived from products manufactured using peek. we depend on a limited number of sources of human tissue for use in our biologics products, and any failure to obtain tissue from these sources or to have the tissue processed by these entities for us in a timely manner will interfere with our ability to effectively meet demand for our biologics products. the processing of human tissue into biologics products is labor intensive and it is therefore difficult to maintain a steady supply stream. in addition, due to seasonal changes in mortality rates, some scarce tissues used for our biologics products are at times in particularly short supply. we cannot be certain that our supply of human tissue from our current suppliers and our current inventory of biologics products will be available at current levels or will be sufficient to meet our needs. our dependence on a single third-party peek supplier and the challenges we may face in obtaining adequate supplies of biologics products involve several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules. in addition, any supply interruption in a limited or sole sourced component or raw material, such as peek or human tissue, could materially harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply, if any, could be found. we may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time period or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. negative publicity concerning methods of tissue recovery and screening of donor tissue in our industry could reduce demand for biologics products and impact the supply of available donor tissue. media reports or other negative publicity concerning both alleged improper methods of tissue recovery from donors and disease transmission from donated tissue could limit widespread acceptance of biologics products. unfavorable reports of improper or illegal tissue recovery practices, both in the u.s. and internationally, as well as incidents of improperly processed tissue leading to the transmission of disease, may broadly affect the rate of future tissue donation and market acceptance of biologics product. in addition, such negative publicity could cause the families of potential donors to become reluctant to agree to donate tissue to for-profit tissue processors, which could have a negative effect on our biologics products business.   27 table of contents healthcare policy changes, including recent federal legislation to reform the u.s. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us. in response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payors to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the u.s. healthcare system. certain of these proposals could limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products, limit the acceptance and availability of our products, and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. in march 2010, the u.s. congress adopted and president obama signed into law the the ppaca. the legislation imposes a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of medical devices following december 31, 2012. these taxes will result in a significant increase in the tax burden on our industry. other elements of this legislation include numerous provisions to limit medicare spending through reductions in various fee schedule payments and by instituting more sweeping payment reforms, such as bundled payments for episodes of care, the establishment of “accountable care organizations” under which hospitals and physicians will be able to share savings that result from cost control efforts, comparative effectiveness research, value-based purchasing, and the establishment of an independent payment advisory board. many of these provisions will be implemented through the regulatory process, and policy details have not yet been finalized. in addition, ppaca has been subject to various legal and legislative challenges. for example, the u.s. house of representatives recently voted to repeal ppaca, two courts have ruled that one provision, the minimum coverage rule, or so-called personal mandate, which is not scheduled to go into effect until 2014, is it unconstitutional. other proposals have been introduced in congress to repeal the device tax. we cannot predict with certainty whether ppaca will be fully implemented as enacted or what other healthcare initiatives at the federal or state level, if any, will be implemented. however, an expansion in government’s role in the u.s. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business and results of operations, possibly materially. the demand for our products and the prices at which customers and patients are willing to pay for our products depend upon the ability of our customers to obtain adequate third-party coverage and reimbursement for their purchases of our products. sales of our products depend in part on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from governmental and private payors. in the u.s., healthcare providers that purchase our products generally rely on third-party payors, principally medicare, medicaid and private health insurance plans, to pay for all or a portion of the costs and fees associated with the use of our products. while our currently marketed products are eligible for reimbursement in the u.s., if surgical procedures utilizing our products are performed on an outpatient basis, it is possible that private payors may no longer provide reimbursement for our products without further supporting data on our procedure. any delays in obtaining, or an inability to obtain, adequate coverage or reimbursement for procedures using our products could significantly affect the acceptance of our products and have a significant adverse effect on our business. additionally, third-party payors continue to review their coverage policies carefully for existing and new therapies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our products. our business would be negatively impacted to the extent any such changes reduce reimbursement for our products. with respect to coverage and reimbursement outside of the u.s., reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis and can take up to 18 months, or longer. many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that govern reimbursement for new devices and procedures. in most markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government-managed systems. additionally, some foreign reimbursement systems provide for limited payments in a given period and therefore result in extended payment periods. reimbursement in international markets may require us to undertake country-specific reimbursement activities, including additional clinical studies, which could be time consuming, expensive and may not yield acceptable reimbursement rates.   28 table of contents furthermore, healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. there have been and may continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to contain these costs. several such proposals were enacted as part of ppaca, and include numerous provisions to limit medicare spending through reductions in various fee schedule payments and sweeping payment reforms. other federal and state cost-control measures include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to major surgery, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. some healthcare providers in the u.s. have adopted or are considering a managed care system in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. healthcare providers may also attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures or by requiring the use of the least expensive devices possible. these cost-control methods also potentially limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for medical devices. in addition, in the u.s., no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for medical technology exists among all these payors. therefore, coverage of and reimbursement for medical technology can differ significantly from payor to payor. the continuing efforts of third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the u.s. or outside, to contain or reduce these costs, combined with closer scrutiny of such costs, could restrict our customers’ ability to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from these third-party payors. the cost containment measures contained in ppaca and other measures being considered at the federal and state level, as well as internationally, could harm our business by adversely affecting the demand for our products or the price at which we can sell our products. consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or to the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our markets, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. because healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry to create new companies with greater market power, including hospitals. as the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services to industry participants has become and will continue to become more intense. this in turn has resulted and will likely continue to result in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to use their market power to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our customers. we expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers, which may reduce competition, exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may be subject to or otherwise affected by federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse, health information privacy and security, and disclosure laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws. although we do not provide healthcare services, submit claims for third-party reimbursement, or receive payments directly from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors for our products or the procedures in which our products are used, healthcare regulation by federal and state governments significantly impacts our business. healthcare fraud and abuse, health information privacy and security, and disclosure laws potentially applicable to our operations include:     •   the federal anti-kickback law, as well as state analogs, which constrains our marketing practices and those of our independent sales agents and distributors, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with healthcare providers by prohibiting, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, intended to induce the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal (or state or commercial) healthcare program (such as the medicare or medicaid programs);   29 table of contents   •   the federal ban, as well as state analogs, on physician self-referrals, which prohibits, subject to certain exceptions, physician referrals of medicare and medicaid patients to an entity providing certain “designated health services” if the physician or an immediate family member of the physician has any financial relationship with the entity;     •   federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent;     •   the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, and its implementing regulations, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain regulatory and contractual requirements regarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;     •   the state and federal laws “sunshine” provisions that require the reporting and disclosures of any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other health care providers, require the adoption of marketing codes of conduct, and constrain their relationships with physicians and other referral sources; and     •   state laws analogous to each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy of certain health information, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by hipaa, thus complicating compliance efforts. ppaca includes various provisions designed to strengthen significantly fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal healthcare fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. if our past or present operations, or those of our independent sales agents and distributors are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal healthcare programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. similarly, if the healthcare providers, sales agents, distributors or other entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. the risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. in january 2004, the advanced medical technology association or advamed, the principal u.s. trade association for the medical device industry, put in place a model “code of conduct” that sets forth standards by which its members should abide in the promotion of their products. we have in place policies and procedures for compliance that we believe are at least as stringent as those set forth in the advamed code, and we provide routine training to our sales and marketing personnel on our policies regarding sales and marketing practices. the advamed code was revised in 2009 to make it more stringent with respect to interactions with healthcare professionals. we have adopted the new aspects of the revised advamed code. the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from federal and state government agencies, and we believe that this trend will continue. prosecutorial scrutiny and governmental oversight over some major device companies regarding the retention of healthcare professionals as consultants has affected and may continue to affect the manner in which medical device companies may retain   30 table of contents healthcare professionals as consultants. we have in place policies to govern how we may retain healthcare professionals as consultants that reflect the current climate on this issue and are providing training on these policies. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. if we or our suppliers fail to comply with the fda’s quality system and good tissue practice regulations, the manufacture of our products could be delayed. we and our suppliers are required to comply with the fda’s qsrs, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, record keeping, storage and shipping of our products. in addition, suppliers and processors of allograft must comply with the fda’s current good tissue practice regulations, or cgtps, which govern the methods used in and the facilities and controls used for the manufacture of human cell tissue and cellular and biologics products, record keeping and the establishment of a quality program. the fda audits compliance with the qsrs and cgtps through inspections of manufacturing and other facilities. if we or our suppliers have significant non-compliance issues or if any corrective action plan is not sufficient, we or our suppliers could be forced to delay the manufacture of our products until such problems are corrected to the fda’s satisfaction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, our products could be subject to recall if the fda determines, for any reason, that our products are not safe or effective. any recall or fda requirement demanding that we seek additional approvals or clearances could result in delays, costs associated with modification of a product, loss of revenue and potential operating restrictions imposed by the fda, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the fda inspected our carlsbad, california facilities in january 2010 and non-compliance items were cited on an fda form 483 that we received following the inspection. in june 2010, we received a warning letter from the irvine district office of the fda. the warning letter related specifically to non-conformances in quality systems previously identified in the form 483 that was related to the january inspection. we have has responded to the warning letter and completed corrective actions to address the observations. the fda conducted a planned re-inspection of our carlsbad, california facility in december 2010, and we are awaiting the results of such inspection. following the receipt of the warning letter we developed a comprehensive plan to review and augment the quality systems at our carlsbad, california facility, and we have implemented nearly all of the measures outlined in that plan. at this time, we do not currently believe that the warning letter has had or will have a material effect on our business. nonetheless, if the fda were to raise additional concerns regarding the adequacy of our corrective actions taken in response to the warning letter, the fda could take further action that could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. if we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, fda clearances or approvals for our future products or modifications to our products, our ability to commercially distribute and market our products could suffer. our medical devices are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda, can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. in particular, the fda permits commercial distribution of most new medical devices only after the devices have received clearance under section 510(k) of the federal food, drug and cosmetic act, or 510(k), or are the subject of an approved premarket approval application, or a pma. the 510(k) process generally takes three to nine months, but can take significantly longer, especially if the fda requires a clinical study to support the 510(k) application. in connection with the 510(k) we submitted for the osseofix system, the fda required clinical data to support the 510(k). currently, we are not certain as to whether the fda will require clinical data in support of any other   31 table of contents 510(k)s that we intend to submit for other products in our pipeline. in addition, the fda is currently re-examining its 510(k) clearance process for medical devices and any changes that make the process more restrictive could increase the time it takes for us to obtain clearances or could make the 510(k) process unavailable for certain of our products. a pma must be submitted to the fda if the device cannot be cleared through the 510(k) process or is not exempt from premarket review by the fda. a pma must be supported by extensive data, including results of preclinical studies and clinical trials, manufacturing and control data and proposed labeling, to demonstrate to the fda’s satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. the pma process is more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process, and generally takes between one and three years, if not longer. in addition, any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a pma. our commercial distribution and marketing of any products or product modifications that we develop may be delayed since regulatory clearance or approval is required. in addition, because we cannot assure you that any new products or any product modifications we develop will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, the regulatory approval process for our new products or product modifications may take significantly longer than anticipated. there is no assurance that the fda will not require a new product or product modification to go through the lengthy and expensive pma approval process. delays in obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals may:     •   delay or prevent commercialization of products we develop;     •   require us to perform costly procedures;     •   diminish any competitive advantages that we might otherwise have obtained; and     •   reduce our ability to collect revenues. to date, all of our medical device products that have required fda review that are being sold in the u.s. have been cleared through the 510(k) process without any required clinical trials. we have no experience in obtaining approval for a device through the 510(k) clinical trial process or the pma process. our biologics products and related technologies could become subject to significantly greater regulation by the fda, which could disrupt our business. the fda may regulate certain biologics products as medical devices, drugs or biologics if the product is deemed to have been more than minimally manipulated or indicated for nonhomologous use. homologous use is generally interpreted as the use of tissue for the same basic function in the recipient as it fulfilled in the donor. if the fda decides that any of our current or future biologics products are more than minimally manipulated or indicated for nonhomologous use, it would require us to either obtain 510(k) clearance or a pma approval if the biologics product is viewed as a medical device or obtain approval as a drug or biologics if it is viewed as a drug or biologics. depending on the nature and extent of any fda decision applicable to our biologics products, further distribution of the affected products could be interrupted for a substantial period of time, which would reduce our revenues and hurt our profitability. the safety of our products is not yet supported by long-term clinical data and may therefore prove to be less safe and effective than initially thought. we obtained clearance to offer all of our current medical device products through the fda’s 510(k) clearance process. the 510(k) clearance process is generally based on the fda’s agreement that a new product is substantially equivalent to already marketed products. thus, the fda’s 510(k) review process is less rigorous than the pma process and requires little, if any, supporting clinical data. for these reasons, surgeons may be slow to adopt our 510(k)-cleared products, we may not have the comparative data that our competitors have or are generating, and we may be subject to greater regulatory and product liability risks. with the passage of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, funds have been appropriated for the u.s. department of   32 table of contents health and human services’ healthcare research and quality to conduct comparative effectiveness research to determine the effectiveness of different drugs, medical devices, and procedures in treating certain conditions and diseases. some of our products or procedures performed with our products could become the subject of such research. it is unknown what effect, if any, this research may have on our business. further, future research or experience may indicate that treatment with our products does not improve patient outcomes. such results would reduce demand for our products and this could cause us to withdraw our products from the market. moreover, if future research or experience indicate that our products cause unexpected or serious complications or other unforeseen negative effects, we could be subject to significant legal liability, significant negative publicity, damage to our reputation and a dramatic reduction in sales of our products, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if clinical trials of our current or future product candidates do not produce results necessary to support regulatory approval in the u.s., we will be unable to commercialize these products. several investigational devices in our development pipeline, including our osseofix spinal fracture reduction system, require either a 510(k) with clinical trial data or a pma from the fda before we can market such product in the u.s. the clinical trial is required by the fda to demonstrate to the fda’s satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. as a result, to receive regulatory approval in the u.s. for osseofix, we must conduct, at our own expense, a clinical trial to demonstrate efficacy and safety in humans. clinical testing is expensive and has an uncertain outcome. clinical failure can occur at any stage of the testing. our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or non-clinical testing. our failure to adequately demonstrate the efficacy and safety of any of our devices would prevent receipt of regulatory approval and, ultimately, the commercialization of that device. our international operations may expose us to liabilities under the foreign corrupt practices act and money laundering laws. we may be exposed to liabilities under the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making corrupt payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and requires companies to maintain adequate record keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the transactions of the company. we are also subject to a number of other laws and regulations relating to money laundering, international money transfers and electronic fund transfers, which we collectively refer to as money laundering laws. these laws apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents. we operate in a number of jurisdictions with developing economies that pose a high risk of potential violations of the fcpa and money laundering laws, and we utilize third-party distributorships that have government customers. if our employees, third-party distributors or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other remedial measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we choose to acquire new and complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to complete these acquisitions or successfully integrate them in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner. our success depends in part on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offering in response to changing customer demands, competitive pressures and technologies and our ability to increase our market share. accordingly, we intend to pursue the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves. we do not know if we will be able to successfully complete any acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology into our business or retain any key personnel, suppliers or distributors. our ability to successfully   33 table of contents grow through acquisitions depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financing. these efforts could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract management. if we are unable to integrate any future acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. for example, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to amortize significant amounts of expenses, including non-cash acquisition costs, and acquired assets. our future revenue growth depends to a significant extent on our ability to expand in the japanese, european and other foreign markets. if our revenue growth is slower than expected in these markets, our future revenue targets may not be achieved. we believe that many of the primary barriers to success in the market for spinal products in japan, europe and other foreign markets are similar to those in the u.s., including the challenges of increasing market penetration, expanding the size and quality of each region’s sales force and obtaining regulatory approval for products. there can be no assurance, however, that we will achieve expected revenue growth in these markets. if we experience slower than expected revenue growth in these markets, our revenues from our overseas businesses may not increase as anticipated, making it more difficult for us to achieve our future revenue growth targets. we may not be able to timely develop new products or product enhancements that will be accepted by the market. we sell our products in a market that is characterized by technological change, product innovation, evolving industry standards, competing patent claims, patent litigation and intense competition. our success will depend in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products and enhancements or modifications to our existing products, which we will need to do before our competitors do so and in a manner that does not infringe issued patents of third parties from which we do not have a license. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop or market new, improved or modified products, or that any of our future products will be accepted by even the surgeons who use our current products. our competitors’ product development capabilities could be more effective than our capabilities, and their new products may get to market before our products. in addition, the products of our competitors may be more effective or less expensive than our products. the introduction of new products by our competitors may lead us to have price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share and may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. the success of any of our new product offerings or enhancement or modification to our existing products will depend on several factors, including our ability to:     •   properly identify and anticipate surgeon and patient needs;     •   develop new products or enhancements in a timely manner;     •   obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for new products or product enhancements;     •   provide adequate training to potential users of new products;     •   receive adequate reimbursement approval of third-party payors such as medicaid, medicare and private insurers; and     •   develop an effective marketing and distribution network. developing products in a timely manner can be difficult, in particular because product designs change rapidly to adjust to third-party patent constraints and to market preferences. as a result, we may experience delays in our product launches which may significantly impede our ability to enter or compete in a given market and may reduce the sales that we are able to generate from these products. we may experience delays in any phase of a product launch, including during research and development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and the surgeon training process. in addition, our suppliers of products or components that we do not manufacture can suffer similar delays, which could cause delays in our product introductions. if we do not   34 table of contents develop new products or product enhancements in time to meet market demand or if there is insufficient demand for these new products or enhancements, it could have a significant adverse effect on our business financial condition and results of operations. our products and product enhancements under development may not be commercially viable. while we devote significant resources to research and development, our research and development may not lead to improved or new products that are commercially successful. the research and development process is expensive, prolonged and entails considerable uncertainty. development of medical devices, from discovery, through testing and registration, to initial product launch, typically takes between three and seven years in the u.s. each of these periods varies considerably from product to product and country to country. because of the complexities and uncertainties associated with spine fusion research and development, we may elect to cease development of one or more of our product candidates if we believe that the product candidate would not be commercially viable. our products and related capital instruments may become obsolete prior to the end of their anticipated useful lives. a stated goal of our business is to focus on continual product innovation and to obsolete our own products. while we believe this provides a competitive edge, it also results in the risk that our products and related capital instruments will become obsolete prior to the end of their anticipated useful lives. if we introduce new products or next-generation products prior to the end of the useful life of a prior generation, we may be required to dispose of existing inventory and related capital instruments and/or write off the value or accelerate the depreciation of these assets. we have not recorded excess and obsolescence expenses related to the introduction of next generation products. we are dependent on our senior management team, sales and marketing team, engineering team and key surgeon advisors, and the loss of any of them could harm our business. our continued success depends in part upon the continued availability and contributions of our senior management, sales and marketing team and engineering team and the continued participation of our key surgeon advisors. while we have entered into employment agreements with all members of our senior management team, other than with respect to our president and ceo, and president of alphatec pacific, none of these agreements guarantees the services of the individual for a specified period of time. we would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately prepare for future turnover of our senior management team. our ability to grow or at least maintain our sales levels depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain sales and marketing personnel and for these sales people to maintain their relationships with surgeons directly and through our distributors. we rely on our engineering team to research, design and develop potential products for our product pipeline. we also rely on our surgeon advisors to advise us on our products, our product pipeline, long-term scientific planning, research and development and industry trends. we compete for personnel and advisors with other companies and other organizations, many of which are larger and have greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we do. the loss of members of our senior management team, sales and marketing team, engineering team and key surgeon advisors, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel or advisors could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. we rely on our information technology systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions and to maintain our research and development data. if our information technology systems fail to adequately perform these functions, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems. we rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions; manage order entry, order fulfillment and inventory replenishment processes; and maintain our research and development data. the failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and product   35 table of contents development and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:     •   earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters;     •   terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers;     •   power loss; and     •   computer systems, or internet, telecommunications or data network failure. any such interruption could have significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the majority of our operations and all of our manufacturing facilities are currently conducted in locations that may be at risk of damage from fire, earthquakes or other natural disasters. if a natural disaster strikes, we may be unable to manufacture certain products for a substantial amount of time. we currently conduct the majority of our development, manufacturing and management activities in carlsbad, california near known wildfire areas and earthquake fault zones. we have taken precautions to safeguard our facilities, including obtaining property and casualty insurance, and implementing health and safety protocols. we have developed an information technology disaster recovery plan. however, any future natural disaster, such as a fire or an earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our equipment or inventory and cause us to incur additional expenses. a disaster could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our facilities would be difficult to replace and would require substantial lead time to repair or replace. the insurance we maintain against earthquakes, fires, and other natural disasters would not be adequate to cover a total loss of our manufacturing facilities, may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. alphatec holdings is a holding company with no operations, and unless it receives dividends or other payments from its subsidiaries, it will be unable to fulfill its cash obligations. as a holding company with no business operations, alphatec holdings’ material assets consist only of the common stock of its subsidiaries, including alphatec spine and scient’x, dividends and other payments received from time to time from its subsidiaries, and the proceeds raised from the sale of debt and equity securities. alphatec holdings’ subsidiaries are legally distinct from alphatec holdings and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to alphatec holdings. alphatec holdings will have to rely upon dividends and other payments from its subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to fulfill its cash obligations. alphatec holdings may not be able to access cash generated by its subsidiaries in order to fulfill cash commitments. the ability of alphatec spine to make dividend and other payments to alphatec holdings is subject to the availability of funds after taking into account its subsidiaries’ funding requirements, the terms of its subsidiaries’ indebtedness and applicable state laws. for example, our current credit facility with silicon valley bank, or svb, prohibits alphatec spine from declaring or paying dividends, other than dividends payable in capital stock, during the term of the facility. we are subject to certain risks associated with our foreign operations. certain risks are inherent in international operations, including:     •   difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;     •   foreign customers who may have longer payment cycles than customers in the u.s.;     •   tax rates in foreign countries may exceed those in the u.s. and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions including transfer pricing restrictions when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country;   36 table of contents   •   economic and political instability in countries where we operate or where end-users of spine fusion surgery reside;     •   difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries;     •   difficulties in obtaining and enforcing intellectual property rights;     •   required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations;     •   imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements;     •   laws and business practices favoring local companies; and     •   lack of availability and reduced level of reimbursement within prevailing foreign healthcare payment systems. if we continue to expand our business outside of the u.s., our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a significant adverse effect on our international operations or our business as a whole. compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, new sec regulations, including accelerated sec filing timelines and new proxy rules, new nasdaq stock market rules, and new accounting pronouncements are creating uncertainty and additional complexities for companies such as ours. in particular, the section 404 internal control evaluation requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act have added and will continue to add complexity and costs to our business and require a significant investment of our time and resources to complete each year. we take these requirements seriously and will make every effort to ensure that we receive clean attestations on our internal controls each year from our outside auditors, but there is no guarantee that our efforts to do so will be successful. to maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all other evolving standards. these investments may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from strategic revenue generating and cost management activities. if we fail to maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, we could be unable to provide timely and accurate financial information and therefore be subject to delisting from the nasdaq global select market, an investigation by the sec, and civil or criminal sanctions. additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting would place us at increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and could cause our stockholders, lenders, suppliers and others to lose confidence in the accuracy or completeness of our financial reports. a portion of our revenues and expenditures is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely affect our reported results of operations. while a majority of our business is denominated in u.s. dollars, we maintain operations in foreign countries, primarily japan and the european union. sales of our products in a foreign country may require payments in the local currency. consequently, fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the u.s. dollar and certain other currencies may affect our results of operations and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results. for example, if the value of the u.s. dollar were to fall relative to the japanese yen or the euro, then our reported revenues would increase when we convert the higher valued foreign currency into u.s. dollars. if the value of the u.s. dollar were to increase in relation to the japanese yen or the euro, then there would be a negative effect on the value of our sales in japan or europe to the extent our revenues in japanese yen or euros are in excess of our japanese yen costs or euro costs, respectively at the time that we converted amounts to u.s. dollars in connection with the preparation of our financial statements. we do not currently engage in hedging or similar transactions to reduce these risks.   37 table of contents risks related to our financial results and need for financing the current global recession and credit crisis could adversely affect our business. the financial and credit crisis that began in 2007 triggered a period of upheaval characterized by bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale at nominal amounts of various financial institutions. despite the unprecedented level of intervention in the credit markets by the u.s. and foreign governments that has already occurred and is likely to continue to occur, this crisis could temporarily restrict our ability to borrow money on acceptable terms in the credit markets and potentially could affect our ability to draw on our current credit facility. the financial and credit crisis could make it difficult or, in many cases, impossible for our customers to borrow money to fund their operations. their lack of or limited access to capital may adversely affect their ability to purchase our products or, in some cases, to pay for our products on a timely basis. our quarterly financial results could fluctuate significantly. our quarterly financial results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly because our sales prospects are uncertain. the level of our revenues and results of operations at any given time will be based primarily on the following factors:     •   acceptance of our products by surgeons, patients, hospitals and third-party payors;     •   demand and pricing of our products;     •   the mix of our products sold, because profit margins differ among our products;     •   timing of new product offerings, acquisitions, licenses or other significant events by us or our competitors;     •   our ability to grow and maintain a productive sales and marketing organization;     •   regulatory approvals and legislative changes affecting the products we may offer or those of our competitors;     •   the effect of competing technological and market developments;     •   levels of third-party reimbursement for our products;     •   interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of our products;     •   our ability to produce or obtain products of satisfactory quality or in sufficient quantities to meet demand; and     •   changes in our ability to obtain fda, state and international approval or clearance for our products. in addition, until we have a larger base of surgeons using our products, occasional fluctuations in the use of our products by individual surgeons or small groups of surgeons will have a proportionately larger impact on our revenues than for companies with a larger customer base. many of the products we may seek to develop and introduce in the future will require fda, state and international approval or clearance. we cannot begin to commercialize any such products in the u.s. without fda approval or clearance or outside of the u.s. without appropriate regulatory approvals and import licenses. as a result, it will be difficult for us to forecast demand for these products with any degree of certainty. we cannot assure you that our revenue will increase or be sustained in future periods or that we will be profitable in any future period. any shortfalls in revenue or earnings from levels expected by our stockholders or by securities or industry analysts could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock in any given period.   38 table of contents we may need to raise additional funds in the future and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. we believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, revenues from our operations, and alphatec spine’s ability to draw down on its credit facility, will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements through december 31, 2011. despite this belief, we may seek additional funds from public and private stock offerings, borrowings under new debt facilities or other sources. our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:     •   the revenues generated by sales of our products;     •   the costs associated with expanding our sales and marketing efforts;     •   the expenses we incur in manufacturing and selling our products;     •   the costs of developing new products or technologies;     •   the cost of obtaining and maintaining fda or other regulatory approval or clearance for our products and products in development;     •   the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions;     •   the costs associated with increased capital expenditures; and     •   the costs associated with our employee retention programs and related benefits. as a result of these factors, we may need to raise additional funds and such funds may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. in addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. if we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. any of these events could adversely affect our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals and have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be unable to comply with the covenants of our credit facility. we are required to maintain compliance with financial covenants in our credit facility. in order to meet the covenants for 2011, we will need to achieve growth over our historical revenue and earnings levels. if we are not able to achieve planned revenue growth or incur costs in excess of our forecast, we could be in default of the credit facility and the lenders would have the right to declare the loan immediately due and payable. to secure the repayment of any amounts borrowed under this credit facility, we granted to the lenders a first priority security interest in all of our assets, other than our intellectual property and our rights under license agreements granting us rights to intellectual property. we also agreed not to pledge or otherwise encumber our intellectual property assets without the approval of the lenders. the credit facility also contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for loan agreements of this type, including, but not limited to, limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness, asset dispositions, acquisitions, investments, dividends and other restricted payments, liens and transactions with affiliates. a nonappealable judgment in excess of $100,000 that is unsatisfied for a period of ten days is also defined as an event of default. in the event of an event of default, the lenders have the right to declare the amounts borrowed under the credit facility immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. an event of default under the credit facility, includes, among other things, the failure to make payments when due, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants, the occurrence of certain insolvency events, or the occurrence of an event which could have a material adverse effect on us. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them pursuant to the credit facility. we   39 table of contents have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the credit facility. if the lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash on hand to repay the amounts borrowed under the credit facility. risks related to our intellectual property regulatory penalties and potential litigation if our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. we rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. however, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. for example, we cannot assure you that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us. the u.s. patent and trademark office, or pto, may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications, and patents issued as a result of the pending patent applications, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. we could also incur substantial costs in proceedings before the pto. these proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the priority of our inventions and the narrowing or invalidation of claims in issued patents. our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future could subsequently be successfully challenged by others and invalidated or rendered unenforceable, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing and selling related products. in addition, our pending patent applications include claims to aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents. both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes that are comparable to our products. although we have entered into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with certain of our employees, consultants and advisors as one of the ways we seek to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary technology, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s., if at all. since most of our issued patents and pending patent applications are for the u.s. only, we lack a corresponding scope of patent protection in other countries, including japan. thus, we may not be able to stop a competitor from marketing products in other countries that are similar to some of our products. in the event a competitor infringes upon one of our patents or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those patents and rights may be difficult and time consuming. even if successful, litigation to defend our patents against challenges or to enforce our intellectual property rights could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention from managing our business. moreover, we may not have sufficient resources to defend our patents against challenges or to enforce our intellectual property rights. the medical device industry is characterized by patent and other intellectual property litigation and we could become subject to litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of management’s time and efforts, require us to pay damages, and/or prevent us from marketing our existing or future products. the medical device industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. determining whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. our competitors may assert that our products, the components of those products, the methods of using those products, or the methods we employ in processing those products are covered by u.s. or foreign patents held by them. in addition, they may claim that their patents have priority over ours because their patents were issued first. because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. there could also be existing patents that one or more components of our products may be inadvertently infringing, of which we are unaware. as the number of participants in the   40 table of contents market for spine disorder devices and treatments increases, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us increases. in february 2010, a complaint was filed in the u.s. district court for the central district of california, by cross medical products, llc, or cross, alleging that we breached a patent license agreement with cross by failing to make certain royalty payments allegedly due under the agreement. cross is seeking payment of prior royalties allegedly due from our sales of polyaxial pedicle screws and an order from the court regarding payment of future royalties by us. while we denied the allegations in our answer to the complaint and believe that cross’ allegations are without merit, the outcome of the litigation cannot be predicted at this time. in february 2011, the court issued an order granting cross’s motion for partial summary judgment on issues of contract interpretation. while this ruling interpreted the license agreement as asserted by cross, it was not dispositive of any claims and we continue to assert defenses and counterclaims the court preserved until a later phase of the case. any outcome in favor of cross could result in the payment of significant costs and damages by us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. additionally, in january 2011, we filed a complaint in the u.s. district court for the southern district of california against biomet, inc., alleging that biomet’s tps-tl product infringes one of our patents. we are seeking money damages, attorneys’ fees and interest. the outcome of the litigation cannot be predicted at this time and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our claims. any such claim against us, even those without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs, and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation. if the relevant patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe, we could be required to pay substantial damages, including treble, or triple, damages if an infringement is found to be willful, and/or royalties and we could be prevented from selling our products unless we could obtain a license or were able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. any such license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to redesign our products in a way that would not infringe those patents. if we fail to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to our products or technologies, we may have to withdraw existing products from the market or may be unable to commercialize one or more of our products, either of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, in order to further our product development efforts, from time to time we enter into agreements with surgeons to develop new products. as consideration for product development activities rendered pursuant to these agreements, in certain instances we have agreed to pay such surgeons royalties on products developed by cooperative involvement between us and such surgeons. there can be no assurance that surgeons with whom we have entered into such an arrangement will not claim to be entitled to a royalty even if we do not believe that such products were developed by cooperative involvement between us and such surgeons. any such claim against us, even those without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs, and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation. we may be subject to or otherwise affected by federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse, health information privacy and security, and disclosure laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws. although we do not provide healthcare services, submit claims for third-party reimbursement, or receive payments directly from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors for our products or the procedures in which our products are used, healthcare regulation by federal and state governments significantly impact our business. healthcare fraud and abuse, health information privacy and security, and disclosure laws potentially applicable to our operations include:     •   the federal anti-kickback law, as well as state analogs, which constrains our marketing practices and those of our independent sales agents and distributors, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with healthcare providers, by prohibiting, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, intended to induce the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal (or state or commercial) healthcare program (such as the medicare or medicaid programs);   41 table of contents   •   the federal ban, as well as state analogs, on physician self-referrals, which prohibits, subject to certain exceptions, physician referrals of medicare and medicaid patients to an entity providing certain “designated health services” if the physician or an immediate family member of the physician has any financial relationship with the entity;     •   federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent;     •   the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, and its implementing regulations, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain regulatory and contractual requirements regarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;     •   the “sunshine” provisions of state and federal laws that require the reporting and disclosures of any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other health care providers, require the adoption of marketing codes of conduct, and constrain their relationships with physicians and other referral sources; and     •   state laws analogous to each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy of certain health information, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by hipaa, thus complicating compliance efforts. ppaca includes various provisions designed to strengthen significantly fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the anti-kickback statute and criminal healthcare fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. if our past or present operations, or those of our independent sales agents and distributors, are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal healthcare programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. similarly, if the healthcare providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. the risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. in january 2004, the advanced medical technology association, or advamed, the principal u.s. trade association for the medical device industry, put in place a model “code of conduct” that sets forth standards by which its members should abide in the promotion of their products. we have in place policies and procedures for compliance that we believe are at least as stringent as those set forth in the advamed code, and we provide routine training to our sales and marketing personnel on our policies regarding sales and marketing practices. the advamed code was revised in 2009 to make it more stringent with respect to interactions with healthcare professionals. we have adopted the new aspects of the revised advamed code. the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from federal and state government agencies, and we believe that this trend will continue. prosecutorial scrutiny and governmental oversight over some major device companies regarding the retention of healthcare professionals as consultants has affected and may continue to affect the manner in which medical device companies may retain healthcare professionals as consultants. we have in place policies to govern how we may retain healthcare   42 table of contents professionals as consultants that reflect the current climate on this issue and are providing training on these policies. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. if we become subject to product liability claims, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, design, manufacture and sale of medical devices for spine surgery procedures. spine surgery involves significant risk of serious complications, including bleeding, nerve injury, paralysis and even death. to date, our products have not been the subject of any material product liability claims. currently, we carry product liability insurance in the amount of $10 million per occurrence and $10 million in the aggregate. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or our inability to secure coverage in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. in addition, if our product liability insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may have to pay the excess out of our cash reserves, which could harm our financial condition. if longer-term patient results and experience indicate that our products or any component of our products cause tissue damage, motor impairment or other adverse effects, we could be subject to significant liability. even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could harm our reputation in the industry, lead to significant legal fees and result in the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. because biologics products entail a potential risk of communicable disease to human recipients, we may be the subject of product liability claims regarding our biologics products. our biologics products may expose us to additional potential product liability claims. the development of biologics products entails a risk of additional product liability claims because of the risk of transmitting disease to human recipients, and substantial product liability claims may be asserted against us. in addition, successful product liability claims made against one of our competitors could cause claims to be made against us or expose us to a perception that we are vulnerable to similar claims. even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could harm our reputation in the industry, lead to significant legal fees and result in the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. any claims relating to our improper handling, storage or disposal of biological, hazardous and radioactive materials could be time consuming and costly. the manufacture of certain of our products, including our biologics products, involves the controlled use of biological, hazardous and/or radioactive materials and waste. our business and facilities and those of our suppliers are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials and waste products. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. in the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines. this liability could exceed our resources and any applicable insurance. in addition, under some environmental laws and regulations, we could also be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites, even if such contamination was not caused by us. we may incur significant expenses in the future relating to any failure to comply with environmental laws. any such future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   43 table of contents we may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees or our independent distributors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of our competitors or are in breach of non-competition or non-solicitation agreements with our competitors. many of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. many of our independent distributors sell, or in the past have sold, products of our competitors. we may be subject to claims that we, our employees or our independent distributors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the trade secrets or other proprietary information of our competitors. in addition, we have been and may in the future be subject to claims that we caused an employee or independent distributor to break the terms of his or her non-competition agreement or non-solicitation agreement. litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. if we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights and/or personnel. a loss of key personnel and/or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize products, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. scient’x was named as a defendant in a qui tam complaint, and despite the fact that the matter was dismissed without prejudice, the government continues to review the allegations raised in the complaint. on august 13, 2009, a complaint filed under the qui tam provisions of the federal false claims act, or the fca, that had been filed by private parties against scient’x’s subsidiary, scient’x usa, inc., or scient’x usa, was unsealed by the united states district court for the middle district of florida (hudak v. scient’x usa, inc., et al. (civil action no. 6:08-cv-1556-orl-22dab, u.s. district court, w.d. florida). such complaint alleged violations of the fca arising from allegations that scient’x usa engaged in improper activities related to consulting payments to surgeon customers. under the fca, the united states department of justice, civil division, or doj, had a certain period of time in which to decide whether to intervene and conduct the action against scient’x usa, or to decline to intervene and allow the private plaintiffs to proceed with the case. on august 7, 2009, the doj filed a notice informing the court that it was declining to intervene in the case. on december 4, 2009, the private plaintiffs who filed the action moved the court to dismiss the matter without prejudice and the attorney general consented to such dismissal on december 14, 2009. the matter was dismissed without prejudice on december 15, 2009. despite the dismissal of this matter, the doj is continuing its review of the facts alleged by the original plaintiffs in this matter. scient’x usa believes that its business practices were in compliance with the fca and intends to vigorously defend itself with respect to the allegations contained in the qui tam complaint if further litigation is instituted. to date, scient’x usa has not been subpoenaed by any governmental agency in connection with the governmental review. the ultimate outcome of any governmental review is difficult to estimate. a negative outcome of a governmental review is likely to have a material effect on the combined business’s cash flows, results of operations and financial position. risks related to our common stock we expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially and the market price of our common stock may decline in value in the future. the market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including:     •   volume and timing of orders for our products;     •   quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations;     •   our announcement or our competitors’ announcements regarding new products, product enhancements, significant contracts, number of distributors, number of hospitals and surgeons using products, acquisitions or strategic investments;   44 table of contents   •   announcements of technological or medical innovations for the treatment of spine pathology;     •   changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;     •   our ability to develop, obtain regulatory clearance or approval for, and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis;     •   changes in healthcare policy in the u.s. and internationally;     •   product liability claims or other litigation involving us;     •   sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders;     •   changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals, clearances or applications;     •   disputes or other developments with respect to intellectual property rights;     •   changes in the availability of third-party reimbursement in the u.s. or other countries;     •   changes in accounting principles; and     •   general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. we and certain of our current officers and directors have been named as defendants in litigation that could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and otherwise result in dilution to our stockholders. we and certain of our current and former executive officers, have been sued for alleged violations of federal securities laws related to alleged false and misleading statements and breaches of fiduciary duties in connection with our acquisition of scient’x, and the completion of the public offering that took place in april 2010. currently there are three shareholder derivative litigations pending and one federal securities class action litigation pending. we have been engaged in a vigorous defense of such claims. if we are not successful in our defense of such claims, we may have to pay damages awards or otherwise enter into settlement arrangements in connection with such other lawsuits. any such payments or settlement arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. even if the pending claims are not successful, the litigations could result in substantial costs and a significant adverse impact on our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. we may become involved in additional securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. the stock market in general, and the nasdaq global select market and the market for medical device companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. further, the market prices of securities of medical device companies have been particularly volatile. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. litigation is often expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could materially harm our financial condition, results of operations and business. securities analysts may not continue to provide coverage of our common stock or may issue negative reports, which may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. securities analysts may not continue to provide research coverage of our common stock. if securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. the trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and   45 table of contents reports that industry or financial analysts publish about our business. if one or more of the analysts who elects to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. if one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. in addition, recently-adopted rules mandated by the sarbanes-oxley act and a global settlement reached in 2003 between the sec, other regulatory agencies and a number of investment banks have led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. in particular, many investment banking firms are required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. it may be difficult for companies such as ours, with smaller market capitalizations, to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. this could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock. because of their significant stock ownership, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders will be able to exert control over us and our significant corporate decisions. based on shares outstanding at march 1, 2011, our executive officers, directors and stockholders holding more than 5% of our outstanding common stock and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 45% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, these persons will have the ability to significantly impact the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by, among other things:     •   delaying, deferring or preventing our change in control;     •   impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us;     •   causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all of our stockholders; or     •   reducing our public float held by non-affiliates. certain members of our board of directors also serve as officers and directors of healthpointcapital, its affiliates and other portfolio companies. four members of our board of directors also serve as officers and directors of our largest stockholder, healthpointcapital, or its related entities and of other companies in which healthpointcapital invests, including companies with which we compete or may in the future compete. as of march 1, 2011, healthpointcapital owned approximately 37% of our outstanding common stock. the chairman of our board of directors, mortimer berkowitz iii, is a managing member of hgp, llc and hgp ii, llc, the general partners of healthpointcapital partners, lp and healthpointcapital partners ii, lp, respectively. john h. foster, a member of our board of directors, is a managing member of hgp, llc and hgp ii, llc and the chairman, chief executive officer, a member of the board of managers and a managing director of healthpointcapital, llc. our directors r. ian molson and stephen e. o’neil also serve on the board of managers of healthpointcapital, llc. messrs. berkowitz, foster, o’neil, molson, desai and glynn also have financial interests in healthpointcapital investment funds. because of these possible conflicts of interest, such directors may direct potential business and investment opportunities to other entities rather than to us or such directors may undertake or otherwise engage in activities or conduct on behalf of such other entities that is not in, or which may be adverse to, our best interests. whether a director directs an opportunity to us or to another company, our directors may face claims of breaches of fiduciary duty and other duties relating to such opportunities. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires us to indemnify our directors to the fullest extent permitted by law, which may require us to indemnify them against claims of breaches of such duties arising from their service on our board of directors. healthpointcapital or its affiliates may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. furthermore, healthpointcapital may have an interest in us pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions   46 table of contents that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to us and our stockholders generally. in addition, if we were to seek a business combination with a target business with which one or more of our existing stockholders or directors may be affiliated, conflicts of interest could arise in connection with negotiating the terms of and completing the business combination. conflicts that may arise may not be resolved in our favor. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and change of control provisions in some of our employment agreements and agreements with distributors, and in some of our outstanding debt agreements, as well as the terms of our redeemable preferred stock, may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely. certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and restated by-laws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. these provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. these provisions:     •   allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors;     •   allow vacancies on our board of directors to be filled only by resolution of our board of directors;     •   authorize our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, blank check preferred stock that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors;     •   require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent;     •   establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors and for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; and     •   limit who may call stockholder meetings. some of our employment agreements and all of our restricted stock agreements and incentive stock option agreements provide for accelerated vesting of benefits, including full vesting of restricted stock and options, upon a change of control. a limited number of our agreements with our distributors include a provision that extends the term of the distribution agreement upon a change in control and makes it more difficult for us or our successor to terminate the agreement. these provisions may discourage or prevent a change of control. in addition, in the event of a change of control, we would be required to redeem all outstanding shares of our redeemable preferred stock for an aggregate of $29.9 million, at the price of $9.00 per share. further, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation permits us to issue additional shares of preferred stock. the terms of our redeemable preferred stock or any new preferred stock we may issue could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control.   47 table of contents special note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the description of our business set forth in item 1, the risk factors set forth in this item 1a and our management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations set forth in item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, or the securities act, and section 21e of the exchange act, including statements regarding:     •   our estimates regarding anticipated operating losses, future revenue, expenses, capital requirements, and liquidity, including our anticipated revenue growth and cost savings following our acquisition of scient’x;     •   our ability to market, commercialize and achieve market acceptance of any of our products or any product candidates that we are developing or may develop in the future;     •   our ability to successfully integrate, and realize benefits from our acquisition of, scient’x;     •   our ability to successfully achieve and maintain regulatory clearance or approval for our products in applicable jurisdictions;     •   the effect of any existing or future federal, statee or international regulations on our ability to effectively conduct our business;     •   our estimates of market sizes and anticipated uses of our products, including without limitation the market size of the aging spine market and our ability to successfully penetrate such market;     •   our business strategy and our underlying assumptions about market data, demographic trends, reimbursement trends, pricing trends, and trends relating to customer collections;     •   trends related to the treatment of spine disorders, including without limitation the aging spine market;     •   our ability to control our costs, achieve profitability, and the potential need to raise additional funding;     •   the amount of our legal expenses associated with the securities and stockholder derivative litigation, litigation regarding our intellectual property and any future litigation that may arise, and the adequacy of our insurance policy coverage regarding those expenses and any damages or settlement payments related to such litigation;     •   our ability to maintain an adequate sales network for our products, including to attract and retain independent distributors;     •   our ability to enhance our u.s. and international sales networks and product penetration;     •   our ability to attract and retain a qualified management team, as well as other qualified personnel and advisors;     •   our ability to enter into licensing and business combination agreements with third parties and to successfully integrate the acquired technology and/or businesses;     •   our management team’s ability to accommodate growth and manage a larger organization;     •   our ability to protect our intellectual property, and to not infringe upon the intellectual property of third parties;     •   our ability to maintain compliance with the fda’s qsrs;     •   our ability to meet the financial covenants under our credit facilities;     •   our ability to conclude that we have effective disclosure controls and procedures;     •   our ability to establish the industry standard in clinical and legal compliance and corporate governance programs;     •   the effects of the loss of key personnel;   48 table of contents   •   potential liability resulting from litigation; and     •   potential liability resulting from a governmental review of our or scient’x’s business practices. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in our discussion in this annual report will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially. we also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under “risk factors” in item 1a of this annual report. these are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. other factors besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. without limiting the foregoing, the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors set forth under “item 1a—risk factors.” in addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements.   item 1b. unresolved