item 1a.  risk factors   investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment.   risks related to allegiant   increases in fuel prices or unavailability of fuel would harm our business and profitability.   fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses, representing approximately 47.7% and 43.6% during 2011 and 2010, respectively.  significant increases in fuel costs have negatively affected our operating results in the past and future fuel cost volatility could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations.   both the cost and availability of aircraft fuel are subject to many meteorological, economic and political factors and events occurring throughout the world over which we have no control.  aircraft fuel availability is also subject to periods of market surplus and shortage and is affected by demand for heating oil, gasoline and other petroleum products. because of the effect of these events on the price and availability of aircraft fuel, our ability to control this cost is limited and the price and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty.  due to the high percentage of our operating costs represented by fuel, a relatively small increase in the price of fuel can have a significant negative impact on our operating costs.  a fuel supply shortage or higher fuel prices could result in curtailment of our service. we have made a business decision in recent years not to purchase financial derivatives to hedge against increases in the cost of fuel.  this decision may make our operating results more vulnerable to the impact of fuel price increases.   current negative economic conditions may adversely affect travel from our small city markets to our leisure destinations.   the u.s. economy continues to be impacted by high unemployment and other factors which may reduce the wealth and tighten spending of consumers. leisure travel is aligned with discretionary spending and it is uncertain to what extent the continuance of these economic conditions will affect consumers and leisure travel in the future. these conditions could impact demand for airline travel in our small city markets or to our leisure destinations.    our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an accident or new regulations affecting our md-80 aircraft.   an accident or incident involving one of our md-80 aircraft, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other airlines, which would harm our business. because we are smaller than most airlines, an accident would likely adversely affect us to a greater degree than a larger, more established airline.     10     additionally, our current dependence on the md-80 aircraft and engine type for the majority of our flights (as of february 1, 2012, our operating aircraft consisted of 56 md-80 aircraft and one boeing 757-200 aircraft) makes us particularly vulnerable to any problems that might be associated with, or aging aircraft requirements affecting, this aircraft type or these engines. our business would be significantly harmed if a mechanical problem with the md-80 series aircraft or the pratt & whitney jt8d-200 series engine were discovered causing our aircraft to be grounded while any such problem is being corrected, assuming it could be corrected at all. the federal aviation administration (“faa”) could also suspend or restrict the use of our aircraft in the event of any actual or perceived mechanical problems, whether involving our aircraft or another u.s. or foreign airline’s aircraft, while it conducts its own investigation. our business would also be significantly harmed if the public avoids flying our aircraft due to an adverse perception of the md-80 series aircraft or the pratt & whitney jt8d-200 series engine because of safety concerns or other problems, whether real or perceived, or in the event of an accident involving an md-80 aircraft.   covenants in our senior secured term loan facility could limit how we conduct our business, which could affect our long-term growth potential. as of december 31, 2011, we owed $123.5 million under a senior secured term loan facility (the “term loan”).  the term loan contains restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit: · capital expenditures · incurrence of future indebtedness · mergers and acquisitions · certain investments   as a result of these restrictive covenants, we may be limited in how we conduct business, and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during difficult times or to take advantage of new business opportunities.   we may not be able to successfully implement our planned service to hawaii.   we have announced our intention to begin to serve hawaii in the second half of 2012. before beginning to serve hawaii, we will need to obtain regulatory approval for extended over water operations. there is no assurance that we will be able to secure such authority in order to allow us to begin service when planned or at all.   although we plan to serve hawaii from small city markets which do not currently have direct service to hawaii, there is intense competition on routes to hawaii from larger airports. there is no assurance we will be able to achieve acceptable levels of market acceptance for these long-haul flights from the small city markets we decide to serve on these routes. further, as these long-haul flights will require more fuel than our shorter-haul routes, the risk of fuel price increases is exacerbated by this new service. as a result of these factors, there is no assurance we will be able to achieve the desired level of profitability from our planned service to hawaii.   we rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business and any failure of these systems could harm our business.   we depend on automated systems to operate our business, including our computerized airline reservation system, our telecommunication systems, our website and other automated systems. our continuing work on enhancing the capabilities of our automation systems and the migration of data to a new platform could increase the risk of automation failures during the process.  any failure by us to handle our automation needs could negatively affect our internet sales (on which we rely heavily) and customer service and result in increased costs. our website and reservation system must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight information. our automated systems cannot be completely protected against events that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters, telecommunications failures or computer viruses.  although we have implemented security measures and have in place disaster recovery plans, we cannot assure investors these measures are adequate to prevent disruptions.  substantial or repeated website, reservations system or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of our services. any disruption in these systems could result in the loss of important data, loss of revenue, increase our expenses and generally harm our business.    in the processing of our customer transactions, we receive and store credit card and other identifiable personal data. this data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulation typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted. further, we rely on consumer confidence in the security of our systems, including our website on which we sell almost 90% of our tickets.  we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with existing rules or practices or if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. as privacy and data protection become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liability. these and other privacy developments are difficult to anticipate and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.     11     our maintenance costs will increase as our fleet ages.   our md-80 aircraft range from 16 to 26 years old, with an average age of 22.3 years as of february 1, 2012.  in general, the cost to maintain aircraft increases as they age and exceeds the cost to maintain new aircraft.  faa regulations require additional and enhanced maintenance inspections for older aircraft. these regulations include aging aircraft airworthiness directives, which typically increase as an aircraft ages and vary by aircraft or engine type depending on the unique characteristics of each aircraft and/or engine.   in addition, we may be required to comply with any future law changes, regulations or airworthiness directives. we cannot assure you our maintenance costs will not exceed our expectations.   we believe our aircraft are and will continue to be mechanically reliable. we cannot assure our aircraft will continue to be sufficiently reliable over longer periods of time. furthermore, given the age of our fleet, any public perception that our aircraft are less than completely reliable could have an adverse effect on our bookings and profitability.   increased labor costs could result in the long-term from unionization and labor-related disruptions.   labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs. in general, unionization has increased costs in the airline industry. in december 2010, our flight attendant employee group voted for representation from the transport workers union (“twu”). we are currently in negotiations with twu for a labor agreement which could result in increased labor costs in the long-term.   our pilot employee group is represented by an in-house association to negotiate matters of concern with us. although we have negotiated a mutually acceptable arrangement with our pilot group, our costs could be adversely affected by the cumulative results of discussions with pilots in the future.   unionization of any employee groups could result in demands that may increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our profitability. if employee groups elect to unionize in the future and if we are unable to reach agreement with any unionized employee group with respect to the terms of labor agreements, we may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages which could adversely affect our ability to conduct business.   our business is heavily dependent on the attractiveness of our leisure destinations and a reduction in demand for air travel to these markets could harm our business.   a substantial proportion of our scheduled flights have las vegas, orlando, phoenix, tampa/st. petersburg, los angeles, ft. lauderdale or oakland (the san francisco bay area) as either their destination or origin. our business could be harmed by any circumstances causing a reduction in demand for air transportation to one or more of these markets, such as adverse changes in local economic conditions, negative public perception of the particular city, significant price increases, or the impact of future terrorist attacks.   we rely on third parties to provide us with facilities and services that are integral to our business. we have entered into agreements with third-party contractors to provide certain facilities and services required for our operations, such as aircraft maintenance, ground handling, flight dispatch, baggage services and ticket counter space.  one of these agreements with third party contractors include station operation services at mccarran international airport in las vegas, our largest served leisure destination. our reliance on others to provide essential services on our behalf also gives us less control over costs and the efficiency, timeliness and quality of contract services.      our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel.   our business depends upon the efforts of our chief executive officer, maurice j. gallagher, jr., our president, andrew c. levy, and a small number of management and operating personnel. we do not currently maintain key-man life insurance on mr. gallagher or mr. levy. we may have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business.  risks associated with the airline and travel industry   the airline industry is highly competitive and future competition in our small city markets could harm our business.   the airline industry is highly competitive. the small cities we serve on a scheduled basis have traditionally attracted considerably less attention from our potential competitors than larger markets, and in most of our markets, we are the only provider of nonstop service to our leisure destinations. it is possible other airlines will begin to provide nonstop services to and from these markets or otherwise target these markets. an increase in the amount of direct or indirect competition could harm our business.     12     a future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or escalation of u.s. military involvement overseas could adversely affect our industry.   even if not directed at the airline industry, a future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or escalation of u.s. military involvement overseas could have an adverse effect on the airline industry. in the event of a terrorist attack, the industry would likely experience significantly reduced demand for travel services. these actions, or consequences resulting from these actions, would likely harm our business and the airline and travel industry.   changes in government laws and regulations imposing additional requirements and restrictions on our operations could increase our operating costs.   airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant costs. in the last several years, the faa has issued a number of directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that have required us to make significant expenditures.  faa requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement, weight and payload limits, assumed average passenger weight, and increased inspection and maintenance procedures to be conducted on aging aircraft. the future cost of complying with these and other laws, rules and regulations, including new federal legislative and dot regulatory requirements in the consumer-protection area, cannot be predicted and could significantly increase our costs of doing business. in january 2011, the faa adopted new regulations applying to aging aircraft.  these rules obligate aircraft design approval holders (typically the aircraft manufacturer or its successor) to establish a limit of validity ("lov") of the engineering data that supports the aircraft’s structural maintenance program, demonstrate that widespread fatigue damage will not occur in aircraft of that type prior to reaching lov, and establish or revise airworthiness limitations applicable to that aircraft type to include lov.  according to the faa, establishment of lovs is necessary because structural fatigue characteristics of airplanes are understood only up to the point where analyses and testing of the structure are valid.  once an lov has been established, commercial operation of the aircraft beyond that value will be prohibited, unless an extended lov has been obtained for the aircraft and incorporated into the operator’s maintenance program.  the operator or any other person, such as the aircraft manufacturer, would be eligible to apply for an extended lov.  it is not currently possible to predict the lov-based life limitations that will apply to our aircraft, nor is it possible to predict the future cost of our complying with aging aircraft requirements and/or replacing any aircraft that must be retired.  the lov is required to be incorporated into our maintenance program for md-80 series aircraft by july 2013.  as of february 1, 2012, the average number of cycles on our fleet was approximately 33,000 and the highest number of cycles on any of our aircraft was approximately 48,000.  we historically operate approximately 1,000 cycles per aircraft per year. while we expect the lov to be based on number of cycles flown, our md-80 aircraft have low number of cycles, and we understand boeing is working on this issue, we cannot be sure of how the lov will impact us until there has been a formal faa approval of the manufacturer suggested limit.  in the case of our b757-series aircraft, the similar compliance deadline is january 2016.   on december 21, 2011, in response to federal legislation requiring that the faa adopt updated regulations regarding flight crewmember duty and rest requirements, the faa published new regulations on that topic.  previously proposed regulations, taking into account current scientific knowledge and understanding of fatigue factors, rest requirements and other relevant data, drew thousands of pages of comment from interested parties, which the faa was obligated to consider before issuing the new regulations.  we are studying the new rules and analyzing how they will affect our operating both practically and financially.  we are not yet able to draw conclusions, except to state that based on the previous proposal, additional cost will result.  the new regulations will take effect on january 4, 2014. in april 2011, the dot adopted revisions and expansions to a variety of its consumer-protection regulations.  among other changes, the new rules (which became effective on or before january 26, 2012) substantially reduce the flexibility concerning airline advertising and sales practices, including on websites.  these new regulations, and further dot rulemaking activity, may curtail our ability to advertise, price and sell our services in the particular manner we have developed and found most advantageous, forcing a more homogenized industry approach to advertising and sales.  we believe our revenues could be adversely impacted by these developments.  although we are taking steps to seek to minimize the extent of the adverse effects, we cannot assure investors we will be successful in this regard in the long-term.  in addition, we and other airlines have challenged the legality of these new dot rules in the united states court of appeals in washington, d.c., and are actively prosecuting our case.  even if our legal challenge is successful, however, we will be required to operate under the new rules until the rules are overturned (if ever) and we will have incurred significant costs in the process.  we could be subject to fines or other enforcement actions if the dot believes we are not in compliance with these rules.  even if our practices are upheld to be in compliance with the dot rules, we could incur substantial costs defending our practices.      legislation to address climate change issues has been introduced in the u.s. congress, including a proposal to require transportation fuel producers and importers to acquire market-based allowances to offset the emissions resulting from combustion of their fuels. we cannot predict if this or any similar legislation will pass the congress or, if passed and enacted into law, how it would apply to the airline industry. in addition, the administrator of the environmental protection agency (epa) has concluded that current and projected concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten public health and welfare. although legal challenges and additional legislative proposals are expected, the finding could ultimately result in strict regulation of commercial aircraft emissions, as has taken effect for operations to, from and within the european union under eu legisltation.  these developments and any additional legislation or regulations addressing climate change are likely to increase our costs of doing business in the future and the increases could be material.      13     in respect of aging aircraft, crewmember duty and rest, consumer protection, climate change, taxation and other matters affecting the airline industry, whether the source of new requirements is legislative or regulatory, increased costs will adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to pass the costs on to our customers.   airlines are often affected by factors beyond their control, including air traffic congestion, weather conditions, increased security measures and the outbreak of disease, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition.   like other airlines, we are subject to delays caused by factors beyond our control, including air traffic congestion at airports and en route, adverse weather conditions, increased security measures and the outbreak of disease. delays frustrate passengers and increase costs, which in turn could affect profitability. during periods of fog, snow, rain, storms or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. cancellations or delays due to weather conditions, traffic control problems and breaches in security could harm our operating results and financial condition. an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) or h1n1 virus (swine flu), could have a material adverse impact on the airline industry. any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of an outbreak of disease or other travel advisories could dampen demand for our services even if not applicable to our markets. resulting decreases in passenger volume would harm our load factors, could increase our cost per passenger and adversely affect our profitability.   risks related to our stock price   the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in our stock to decline.   the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:     • fuel price volatility, and the effect of economic and geopolitical factors and worldwide oil supply consumption on fuel availability     • announcements concerning our competitors, the airline industry or the economy in general     • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings     • media reports and publications about the safety of our aircraft or the aircraft type we operate     • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines     • announcements concerning our business strategy     • general and industry-specific economic conditions     • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts     • sales of our common stock or other actions by investors with significant shareholdings     • general market conditions    the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. these types of broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.   in the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources, and harm our business or results of operations.   other companies may have difficulty acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, due to provisions under our corporate charter, bylaws and option plans, as well as nevada law.   provisions in our articles of incorporation, our bylaws, and under nevada law could make it more difficult for other companies to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may inhibit an acquisition of our company by a third party:     14       • advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings     • a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings     • the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote   we are also subject to provisions of nevada law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 10% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of time after the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors.   under u.s. laws and the regulations of the dot, u.s. citizens must effectively control us. as a result, our president and at least two-thirds of our board of directors must be u.s. citizens and not more than 25% of our voting stock may be owned by non-u.s. citizens (although subject to dot approval, the percent of foreign economic ownership may be as high as 49%). any of these restrictions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control.   our corporate charter and bylaws include provisions limiting voting by non-u.s. citizens.   to comply with restrictions imposed by federal law on foreign ownership of u.s. airlines, our articles of incorporation and bylaws restrict voting of shares of our capital stock by non-u.s. citizens. the restrictions imposed by federal law currently require no more than 25% of our stock be voted, directly or indirectly, by persons who are not u.s. citizens, and that our president and at least two-thirds of the members of our board of directors be u.s. citizens. our bylaws provide no shares of our capital stock may be voted by or at the direction of non-u.s. citizens unless such shares are registered on a separate stock record, which we refer to as the foreign stock record. our bylaws further provide no shares of our capital stock will be registered on the foreign stock record if the amount so registered would exceed the foreign ownership restrictions imposed by federal law. registration on the foreign stock record is made in chronological order based on the date we receive a written request for registration. non-u.s. citizens will be able to own and vote shares of our common stock only if the combined ownership by all non-u.s. citizens does not violate these requirements.   the value of our common stock may be negatively affected by additional issuances of common stock or preferred stock by us and general market factors.   future issuances or sales of our common stock or convertible preferred stock by us will likely be dilutive to our existing common stockholders. future issuances or sales of common or preferred stock by us, or the availability of such stock for future issue or sale, could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public or private market, a perception in the market that such sales could occur, or the issuance of securities exercisable or convertible into our common stock, could also adversely affect the prevailing price of our common stock.   substantial sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to fall.   if our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. all of our outstanding shares are either freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market or eligible for sale in the public market at various times, subject, in some cases, to volume limitations under rule 144 of the securities act of 1933, as amended.   we cannot predict whether future sales of our common stock or the availability of our common stock for sale will adversely affect the market price for our common stock or our ability to raise capital by offering equity securities.   item 1b.  unresolved