item 1a. risk factors investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. risks related to allegiant   increases in fuel prices or unavailability of fuel would harm our business and profitability.   fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses, representing approximately 45.8 percent, 48.7 percent and 47.7 percent during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  significant increases in fuel costs have negatively affected our operating results in the past and future fuel cost volatility could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations.   both the cost and availability of aircraft fuel are subject to many economic and political factors and events occurring throughout the world over which we have no control.  meteorological events may also result in short-term disruptions in the fuel supply.  aircraft fuel availability is also subject to periods of market surplus and shortage and is affected by demand for heating oil, gasoline and other petroleum products. because of the effect of these events on the price and availability of aircraft fuel, our ability to control this cost is limited and the price and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty.  due to the high percentage of our operating costs represented by fuel, a relatively small increase in the price of fuel could have a significant negative impact on our operating costs.  a fuel supply shortage or higher fuel prices could possibly result in curtailment of our service during the period affected. we have made a business decision not to purchase financial derivatives to hedge against increases in the cost of fuel.  this decision may make our operating results more vulnerable to the impact of fuel price increases.   increased labor costs could result in the long-term from unionization and labor-related disruptions.   labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs. in general, unionization has increased costs in the airline industry. we have three employee groups (pilots, flight attendants and flight dispatchers) who have elected for union representation by labor organizations.  we are currently in negotiations with these labor organizations for collective bargaining agreements with our flight attendant and pilot employee groups.  if we are unable to reach agreement on the terms of collective bargaining agreements in the future, or we experience wide-spread employee dissatisfaction, we could be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages. any of these events could have an adverse effect on our operations and future results. the international brotherhood of teamsters (“ibt”) filed suit against us in november 2013 on behalf of the allegiant air pilots. the lawsuit seeks injunctive and make whole relief, primarily as a result of the unilateral institution of new work rules in connection with the implementation of a new flight crew scheduling system to comply with faa pilot flight, duty and rest regulations that became effective in january 2014. the ibt claims this violated an obligation under the railway labor act (“rla”) to maintain the status quo during the course of labor negotiations, arguing that the existing pilot work rules are a collective bargaining agreement that was reached between us and the allegiant air pilot advocacy group (“aapag”), which ibt contends was its predecessor as the collective bargaining representative for the allegiant air pilots. although we do not believe the rla imposes any restriction on the right to make the disputed changes because, among other reasons, aapag was not a "representative" under the rla and the pilot work rules did not constitute a collective bargaining agreement, and although we do not believe an injunction or any other relief would be appropriate, there are inherent risks in any litigation and we cannot guarantee there will not be material consequences from this lawsuit.   unfavorable economic conditions may adversely affect travel from our small city markets to our leisure destinations.   the airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. unfavorable u.s. economic conditions have historically driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in reduced discretionary spending for leisure 12 travel. unfavorable economic conditions could impact demand for airline travel in our small city markets or to our leisure destinations. during difficult economic times, we may be unable to raise prices in response to fuel cost increases, labor or other operating costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an accident or new regulations affecting aircraft in our fleet.  as of february 1, 2014, our operating fleet consists of 53 md-80 series aircraft, seven airbus a320 aircraft, three airbus a319 aircraft and six boeing 757-200 aircraft. all of our aircraft were acquired used and range from 7 to 29 years from their manufacture date at february 1, 2014. an accident involving one of our aircraft, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other airlines, which would harm our business. there is no assurance, however, that the amount of insurance we carry would be sufficient to protect us from material loss.  because we are smaller than most airlines, an accident would likely adversely affect us to a greater degree than a larger, more established airline. the federal aviation administration (“faa”) could suspend or restrict the use of our aircraft in the event of actual or perceived mechanical problems, whether involving our aircraft or another u.s. or foreign airline’s aircraft, while it conducts its own investigation. our business could also be significantly harmed if the public avoids flying our aircraft due to an adverse perception of the aircraft we utilize or associated engine types because of safety concerns or other problems, whether real or perceived, or in the event of an accident involving these aircraft or associated engine types.   covenants in our senior secured term loan facility could limit how we conduct our business, which could affect our long-term growth potential. as of december 31, 2013, we owed $121.2 million under a senior secured term loan facility (the “term loan”).  the term loan contains restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit: · capital expenditures · incurrence of future indebtedness · mergers and acquisitions · certain investments   these restrictive covenants could potentially limit how we conduct our business and could affect our ability to raise additional debt financing in the event we do not choose to prepay the debt with our cash resources.   the addition of a new aircraft type could increase our costs and increase the complexity of our operations. during 2013, we added ten used airbus a320 series aircraft into our operating fleet. the addition of the airbus a320 series aircraft type to our operating fleet could increase our costs and increase the complexity of our operations, flight schedules, parts provisioning and maintenance and repair program. we expect to be active in the secondary market for the purchase or lease of additional used airbus a320 series aircraft. there is no assurance we will be able to acquire additional used airbus aircraft on acceptable terms. we rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business and any failure of these systems could harm our business.   we depend on automated systems to operate our business, including our air reservation system, our telecommunication systems, our website and other automated systems. our continuing work on enhancing the capabilities of our automation systems could increase the risk of automation failures. any failure by us to handle our automation needs could negatively affect our internet sales (on which we rely heavily) and customer service and result in lost revenues and increased costs. our website and reservation system must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver necessary functionality to support our operations. our automated systems cannot be completely protected against events that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters, telecommunications failures or computer viruses.  although we have implemented security measures and have in place disaster recovery plans, we cannot assure investors these measures are adequate to prevent disruptions.  substantial or repeated website, reservations system or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of our services. any disruption in these systems could result in the loss of important data, loss of revenue, increase in expenses and generally harm our business.   13 we receive, retain, and transmit certain personal information about our customers. our online operations also rely on the secure transmission of this customer data. we use third-party systems, software, and tools in order to protect the customer data we obtain through the course of our business. although we use these security measures to protect this customer data, a compromise of our physical and network security systems through a cyber security attack, could create a risk that our customers’ personal information might be obtained by unauthorized persons. a compromise in our security systems could adversely affect our reputation and disrupt operations and could also result in litigation or the imposition of penalties. in addition, it could be costly to remediate. in addition, the way businesses handle customer data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulation typically intended to protect the privacy of customer data received, retained and transmitted. we could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with existing rules or practices or if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices. these privacy developments are difficult to anticipate and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our maintenance costs may increase as our fleet ages. in general, the cost to maintain aircraft increases as they age and exceeds the cost to maintain newer aircraft.  faa regulations require additional and enhanced maintenance inspections for older aircraft. these regulations include aging aircraft airworthiness directives, which typically increase as an aircraft ages and vary by aircraft or engine type depending on the unique characteristics of each aircraft and/or engine.   in addition, we may be required to comply with any future law changes, regulations or airworthiness directives. we cannot assure investors our maintenance costs will not exceed our expectations.   we believe our aircraft are and will continue to be mechanically reliable. we cannot assure our aircraft will continue to be sufficiently reliable over longer periods of time. furthermore, given the age of our fleet, any public perception that our aircraft are less than completely reliable could have an adverse effect on our bookings and profitability.   our business is heavily dependent on the attractiveness of our leisure destinations and a reduction in demand for air travel to these markets could harm our business.   a substantial proportion of our scheduled flights have las vegas, orlando, phoenix, tampa/st. petersburg, los angeles, ft. lauderdale, honolulu, punta gorda, or oakland (the san francisco bay area) as either their destination or origin. our business could be harmed by any circumstances causing a reduction in demand for air transportation to one or more of these markets, such as adverse changes in local economic conditions, negative public perception of the particular city, significant price increases, or the impact of future terrorist attacks.   we rely on third parties to provide us with facilities and services that are integral to our business. we have entered into agreements with third-party contractors to provide certain facilities and services required for our operations, such as aircraft maintenance, ground handling, baggage services and ticket counter space. our reliance on others to provide essential services on our behalf also gives us less control over costs and the efficiency, timeliness and quality of contract services. we also rely on the owners of the aircraft under contract to be able to deliver aircraft in accordance with the terms of executed agreements and on a timely basis.  our planned initiation of service with these aircraft could be adversely affected if the third parties fail to perform as contracted.  our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel.   our business depends upon the efforts of our chief executive officer, maurice j. gallagher, jr., our president and chief operating officer, andrew c. levy, and a small number of management and operating personnel. we do not currently maintain key-man life insurance on mr. gallagher or mr. levy. we may have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business.  risks associated with the airline and travel industry   the airline industry is highly competitive and future competition in our small city markets could harm our business.   the airline industry is highly competitive. the small cities we serve on a scheduled basis have traditionally attracted considerably less attention from our potential competitors than larger markets, and in most of our markets, we are the only 14 provider of nonstop service to our leisure destinations. it is possible other airlines will begin to provide nonstop services to and from these markets or otherwise target these markets. an increase in the amount of direct or indirect competition could harm our profitability.   a future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or escalation of u.s. military involvement overseas could adversely affect our industry.   even if not directed at the airline industry, a future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or escalation of u.s. military involvement overseas could have an adverse effect on the airline industry. in the event of a terrorist attack, the industry would likely experience significantly reduced demand for travel services. these actions, or consequences resulting from these actions, would likely harm our business and the airline and travel industry.   changes in government laws and regulations imposing additional requirements and restrictions on our operations could increase our operating costs.   airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant costs. in the last several years, the faa has issued a number of directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that have required us to make significant expenditures.  faa requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, fleet integration of newer aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement, weight and payload limits, assumed average passenger weight, and increased inspection and maintenance procedures to be conducted on aging aircraft. the future cost of complying with these and other laws, rules and regulations, including new federal legislative and dot regulatory requirements in the consumer-protection area, cannot be predicted and could significantly increase our costs of doing business. in january 2011, the faa adopted aging-aircraft regulations applicable to all large commercial aircraft.  these rules obligate aircraft design approval holders (typically the aircraft manufacturer or its successor) to establish a limit of validity ("lov") of the engineering data that supports the aircraft’s structural maintenance program, demonstrate that widespread fatigue damage will not occur in aircraft of that type prior to reaching lov, and establish or revise airworthiness limitations applicable to that aircraft type to include lov.  once an lov has been established for a given aircraft type, lov-related maintenance actions must be incorporated into the operator’s maintenance program, and commercial operation of the aircraft beyond the lov is prohibited unless an extended lov is obtained for the aircraft.  in august 2012, the faa approved an lov, established by boeing, for the md-80 aircraft of 110,000 cycles (a cycle consists of one takeoff and one landing) or 150,000 flight hours, whichever is reached first.  under these parameters, we do not believe the lov rules will limit our use of md-80 aircraft before we decide to retire them from our fleet in years to come as the average number of cycles on our md-80-series fleet was approximately 35,800 per aircraft as of february 1, 2014, and the highest number of cycles on any aircraft as of that date was approximately 50,500.  in addition, we historically operate approximately 1,000 cycles per aircraft per year. in the case of our airbus and boeing 757 aircraft, establishment of lov values generally similar to the above is anticipated, with a deadline of january 2016 to incorporate the resulting maintenance program revisions. it is not yet possible to predict the future cost of complying with aging aircraft requirements.   in december 2011, in response to federal legislation requiring that the faa adopt updated regulations regarding flight crewmember duty and rest requirements, the faa published new regulations on that topic.  based on internal assessments of these new rules (part 117 of the faa regulations), we do not anticipate significant operational or financial impact of the regulations which took effect on january 4, 2014. in april 2011, the dot adopted revisions and expansions to a variety of its consumer-protection regulations.  among other changes, the new rules (all of which became effective in early 2012) substantially reduce flexibility concerning airline advertising and sales practices, including on websites.  these regulations have curtailed our ability to advertise, price and sell our services in the particular manner we have developed and found most advantageous, forcing a more homogenized industry approach to advertising and sales.  we could be subject to fines or other enforcement actions if the dot believes we are not in compliance with these rules.  even if our practices are found to be in compliance with the dot rules, we could incur substantial costs defending our practices.  in addition, the dot has announced its intention to propose additional new consumer protection regulations which could impact our costs and revenues if and when the new regulations become effective.   in november 2013, the faa proposed revisions to the method by which air carriers calculate and control aircraft weight-and-balance. the proposal is based on a continuing increase in the average weight of persons in the united states. if the revisions are adopted as proposed by the faa, the ability of carriers to rely on average weights for this purpose will be complicated significantly and additional costs may result. 15 legislation to address climate change issues has been introduced in the u.s. congress, including a proposal to require transportation fuel producers and importers to acquire market-based allowances to offset the emissions resulting from combustion of their fuels. we cannot predict if this or any similar legislation will pass the congress or, if enacted into law, how it would apply to the airline industry. in addition, the environmental protection agency (epa) has concluded that current and projected concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten public health and welfare. although legal challenges and additional legislative proposals are expected, the finding could ultimately result in strict regulation of commercial aircraft emissions, as has taken effect for operations within the european union under eu legislation.  binding international restrictions adopted under the auspices of the international civil aviation organization (a specialized agency of the united nations) may become effective within several years.  these developments and any additional legislation or regulations addressing climate change are likely to increase our costs of doing business in the future and the increases could be material.     in respect of aging aircraft, crewmember duty and rest, aircraft weight-and-balance, consumer protection, climate change, taxation and other matters affecting the airline industry, whether the source of new requirements is legislative or regulatory, increased costs will adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to pass the costs on to our customers or adjust our operations.   airlines are often affected by factors beyond their control, including air traffic congestion, weather conditions, increased security measures and the outbreak of disease, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition.   like other airlines, we are subject to delays caused by factors beyond our control, including air traffic congestion at airports and en route, adverse weather conditions, increased security measures and the outbreak of disease. delays frustrate passengers and increase costs, which in turn could affect profitability. during periods of fog, snow, rain, storms or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. cancellations or delays due to weather conditions, traffic control problems and breaches in security could harm our operating results and financial condition. an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) or h1n1 virus (swine flu), could have a material adverse impact on the airline industry. any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of an outbreak of disease or other travel advisories could dampen demand for our services even if not applicable to our markets. resulting decreases in passenger volume would harm our load factors, could increase our cost per passenger and adversely affect our profitability.   risks related to our stock price   the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in our stock to decline.   the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:   • fuel price volatility, and the effect of economic and geopolitical factors and worldwide oil supply and consumption on fuel availability • announcements concerning our competitors, the airline industry or the economy in general • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings • media reports and publications about the safety of our aircraft or the aircraft types we operate • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines • announcements concerning our business strategy • general and industry-specific economic conditions • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts • sales of our common stock or other actions by investors with significant shareholdings • general market conditions the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. these types of broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.   in the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources, and harm our business or results of operations.   16 other companies may have difficulty acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, due to provisions under our corporate charter and bylaws, as well as nevada law.   provisions in our articles of incorporation, our bylaws, and under nevada law could make it more difficult for other companies to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may inhibit an acquisition of our company by a third party:   • advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings • a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings • the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote we are also subject to provisions of nevada law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 10 percent of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of time after the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors and stockholders.   under u.s. laws and the regulations of the dot, u.s. citizens must effectively control us. as a result, our president and at least two-thirds of our board of directors must be u.s. citizens and not more than 25 percent of our voting stock may be owned by non-u.s. citizens (although subject to dot approval, the percent of foreign economic ownership may be as high as 49 percent). any of these restrictions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control.   our corporate charter and bylaws include provisions limiting voting by non-u.s. citizens. to comply with restrictions imposed by federal law on foreign ownership of u.s. airlines, our articles of incorporation and bylaws restrict voting of shares of our capital stock by non-u.s. citizens. the restrictions imposed by federal law currently require no more than 25 percent of our stock be voted, directly or indirectly, by persons who are not u.s. citizens, and that our president and at least two-thirds of the members of our board of directors be u.s. citizens. our bylaws provide no shares of our capital stock may be voted by or at the direction of non-u.s. citizens unless such shares are registered on a separate stock record, which we refer to as the foreign stock record. our bylaws further provide no shares of our capital stock will be registered on the foreign stock record if the amount so registered would exceed the foreign ownership restrictions imposed by federal law. registration on the foreign stock record is made in chronological order based on the date we receive a written request for registration. non-u.s. citizens will be able to own and vote shares of our common stock only if the combined ownership by all non-u.s. citizens does not violate these requirements.   the value of our common stock may be negatively affected by additional issuances of common stock or preferred stock by us and general market factors.   future issuances or sales of our common stock or any issuances of convertible preferred stock by us will likely be dilutive to our existing common stockholders. future issuances or sales of common or preferred stock by us, or the availability of such stock for future issue or sale, could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public or private market, a perception in the market that such sales could occur, or the issuance of securities exercisable or convertible into our common stock, could also adversely affect the prevailing price of our common stock. substantial sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to fall.   if our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. all of our outstanding shares are either freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market or eligible for sale in the public market at various times, subject, in some cases, to volume limitations under rule 144 of the securities act of 1933, as amended.   we cannot predict whether future sales of our common stock or the availability of our common stock for sale will adversely affect the market price for our common stock or our ability to raise capital by offering equity securities. item 1b.  unresolved