item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. included below are the primary risks and uncertainties that, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, or our access to liquidity. the following discussion of risk factors includes forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in such forward-looking statements. see “note on forward-looking statements.” risks related to our business during or following a period of systemic disruption in the financial markets, as markets continue a slow recovery, our business could be materially and adversely affected. the financial markets have experienced significant volatility worldwide since the third quarter of 2008, and the united states, european and other foreign economies are experiencing a prolonged period of slow or limited economic growth, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of investments and decreased economic activity. while economic conditions are improving, financial markets continue to experience periodic volatility and uncertainty remains regarding the duration and strength of any economic recovery. the trend toward recovery and growth may not continue. although the united states, european and other foreign governments have taken various actions to try to stabilize the financial markets, it is unclear what the effects of those actions will be over the long term and those actions could lead to an inflationary environment or could cease before the economic conditions sufficiently improve. future actions or inactions of the united states government, including an inability to approve appropriations or increase the debt ceiling, could increase the actual or perceived risk that the u.s. may not ultimately pay its obligations when due, which would disrupt financial markets. if financial markets experience significant disruption, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity. several of the risks we face, including those related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance arrangements, our estimates of loss reserves, emerging claim and coverage issues, the competitive environment and regulatory developments result from, or are made worse by, an economic slowdown or financial disruption. many of these risks could materialize, and our financial results could be negatively impacted, even as the economy is slowly recovering. during or following an economic downturn, lower levels of economic activity could reduce (and historically have reduced) exposure changes at renewal. an inflationary environment (which may follow government efforts to stabilize the economy) may also adversely impact our loss reserves and could adversely impact the valuation of our investment portfolio. finally, as a result of the financial market disruptions over the past several years, we may face increased regulation, as discussed below. any or all of these risks could adversely affect our business. 38 table of contents our loss reserves are based on estimates and may be inadequate to cover our actual losses. we are liable for losses and loss adjustment expenses under the terms of the insurance policies we underwrite. therefore, we must establish and maintain reserves for our estimated liability for loss and loss adjustment expenses with respect to our entire insurance business. if we fail to accurately assess the risks associated with the business and property that we insure, our reserves may be inadequate to cover our actual losses. we establish loss reserves that represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have occurred but have not yet been reported to us. our loss reserves are based on estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims and on actuarial estimation techniques. these estimates are based on historical information and on estimates of future trends that may affect the frequency of claims and changes in the average cost of claims that may arise in the future. they are inherently uncertain and do not represent an exact measure of actual liability. judgment is required to determine the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. the interpretation of this historical data can be impacted by external forces, principally legislative changes, economic fluctuations and legal trends. if we change our reserve estimates for any line of business, these changes will result in adjustments to our reserves and our loss and loss adjustment expenses incurred in the period in which the estimates are changed. if the estimate is increased, our pre-tax income for the period in which we make the change will decrease by a corresponding amount. an increase in reserves could result in a reduction in our surplus, which could result in a downgrade in our a.m. best rating. such a downgrade could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to sell insurance policies. in particular, workers’ compensation claims are often paid over a long period of time and there are no policy limits on our liability for workers’ compensation claims as there are for other forms of insurance. therefore, estimating reserves for workers’ compensation claims may be more uncertain than estimating reserves for other types of insurance claims with shorter or more definite periods between occurrence of the claim and final determination of the loss and with policy limits on liability for claim amounts. catastrophic losses, including those resulting from the negative effects of climate change, or the frequency of smaller insured losses may exceed our expectations as well as the limits of our reinsurance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. property and casualty insurers are subject to claims arising from catastrophes. catastrophes can cause losses in multiple property and casualty lines, including property and workers’ compensation. workers’ compensation constitutes approximately 30% of our business and we write commercial property insurance in our specialty program segment and our small commercial business segment. in addition, during 2012, we made a 30% investment in a crop insurance managing general agency through which we will issue policies that cover crop-related revenue shortfalls or production losses due to natural causes and other perils such as drought, excessive moisture, hail, wind, frost, insects, and disease. the incidence and severity of catastrophes, such as those due to natural disasters and also large-scale terrorist attacks, are inherently unpredictable, and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. longer-term weather trends are changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that may be associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, including effects on global weather patterns, sea, land and air temperature, sea levels, rain and snow. climate change could increase the frequency and severity of catastrophe losses we experience in both coastal and non-coastal areas. in addition, it is possible that we may experience an unusual frequency of smaller losses in a particular period, which could cause substantial volatility in our financial condition or results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and our ability to write new business. although we attempt to manage our exposure to these types of catastrophic and cumulative losses, including through the use of reinsurance, the severity or frequency of these types of losses may exceed our expectations as well as the limits of our reinsurance coverage. if we do not accurately price our policies, our results of operations will be adversely affected. in general, the premiums for our insurance policies are established at the time the policy is issued and, therefore, before all of our underlying costs are known. like other insurance companies, we rely on estimates and assumptions in setting our premium rates. establishing adequate premiums is necessary, together with investment income, to generate sufficient revenue to offset losses, loss adjustment expenses and other underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. if we do not accurately assess the risks that we assume, we may not charge adequate premiums to cover our losses and expenses, which could reduce our net income and cause us to become unprofitable. for example, when initiating workers’ compensation coverage on a policyholder, 39 table of contents we estimate future claims expense based, in part, on prior claims information provided by the policyholder’s previous insurance carriers. if this prior claims information were incomplete or inaccurate, we may under-price premiums by using claims estimates that are too low. as a result, our actual costs for providing insurance coverage to our policyholders may be significantly higher than our premiums. in order to accurately price our policies, we: • collect and properly analyze a substantial volume of data from our insureds; • develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulas; • closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and • project both frequency and severity of our insureds’ losses with reasonable accuracy. our ability to undertake these efforts successfully and, as a result, accurately price our policies, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, principally: • insufficient reliable data; • incorrect or incomplete analysis of available data; • uncertainties generally inherent in estimates and assumptions; • our failure to implement appropriate rating formulas or other pricing methodologies; • regulatory constraints on rate increases; • increases or changes in taxes; • unexpected escalation in the costs of ongoing medical treatment; • our failure to accurately estimate investment yields and the duration of our liability for loss and loss adjustment expenses; and • unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action. our premium rates, generally, are established for the term of the policy. consequently, we could set our premiums too low, which would negatively affect our results of operations and our profitability, or we could set our premiums too high, which could reduce our competitiveness and lead to lower revenues. a downgrade in the a.m. best rating of our principal insurance subsidiaries would likely reduce the amount of business we are able to write and could adversely impact the competitive positions of our insurance subsidiaries. a.m. best evaluates insurance companies based on their ability to pay claims. our principal insurance subsidiaries are rated “a” (excellent) by a.m. best. an “a” rating is the third highest of the 16 categories used by a.m. best, and is assigned to companies that have, in a.m. best’s opinion, an excellent ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. the ratings of a.m. best are subject to periodic review using, among other things, proprietary capital adequacy models, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. our competitive position relative to other companies is determined in part by the a.m. best rating of our insurance subsidiaries. a.m. best ratings are directed toward the concerns of policyholders and insurance agencies and are not intended for the protection of investors or as a recommendation to buy, hold or sell securities. our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current ratings. any downgrade in ratings would likely adversely affect our business through the loss of certain existing and potential policyholders and the loss of relationships with independent agencies that might move to other companies with higher ratings. some of our policyholders are required to maintain workers’ compensation coverage with an insurance company with an a.m. best rating of “a-” (excellent) or better. we are not able to quantify the percentage of our business, in terms of premiums or otherwise, that would be affected by a downgrade in our a.m. best rating. if market conditions cause our reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. as part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase quota share reinsurance and excess of loss and catastrophe reinsurance. the maiden quota share and the reinsurance agreement for our european medical liability business reinsure approximately 40% of our net retained premiums. in addition, we purchase reinsurance on an excess of loss and catastrophe basis for protection against catastrophic events and other large losses. market conditions beyond our control, in terms of price and available capacity, may affect the level of our business and profitability. the maiden quota share was 40 table of contents renewed through july 1, 2016 and our excess of loss and catastrophe reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. we may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance facilities, including the maiden quota share, or to obtain other reinsurance in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. increases in the cost of reinsurance would adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance on favorable terms, either our net exposure to risk would increase, which would increase our costs, or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite, which would reduce our revenues. retentions in various lines of business expose us to potential losses. we retain risk for our own account on business underwritten by our insurance subsidiaries. the determination to reduce the amount of reinsurance we purchase or not to purchase reinsurance for a particular risk or line of business is based on a variety of factors, including market conditions, pricing, availability of reinsurance, the level of our capital and our loss history. such determinations have the effect of increasing our financial exposure to losses associated with such risks or in such lines of business and, in the event of significant losses associated with such risks or lines of business, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to recover amounts due from our third-party reinsurers, which would adversely affect our financial condition. reinsurance does not discharge our obligations under the insurance policies we write; it merely provides us with a contractual right to seek reimbursement on certain claims. we remain liable to our policyholders even if we are unable to make recoveries that we are entitled to receive under our reinsurance contracts. as a result, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. losses are recovered from our reinsurers after underlying policy claims are paid. the creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we recover amounts to which we are entitled. therefore, if a reinsurer were unable to meet its obligations to us, we would be responsible for claims and claim settlement expenses for which we would have otherwise received payment from the reinsurer. if we were unable to collect these amounts from our reinsurers, our costs would increase and our financial condition would be adversely affected. as of december 31, 2013, we had an aggregate amount of approximately $1.9 billion of recoverables from third-party reinsurers on paid and unpaid losses. our relationship with maiden holdings, ltd. and its subsidiaries may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest, business opportunity issues and legal challenges. maiden holdings, ltd., or maiden, is a publicly-held bermuda insurance holding company (nasdaq: mhld) formed by michael karfunkel, george karfunkel and barry zyskind, our principal shareholders, and, respectively, our chairman of the board of directors, one of our directors, and our chief executive officer and director. as of december 31, 2013, our principal shareholders, michael karfunkel, leah karfunkel (the wife of michael karfunkel and sole trustee of the michael karfunkel 2005 grantor retained annuity trust), george karfunkel and barry zyskind own or control approximately 6.2%, 7.6%, 9.4% and 5.1%, respectively, of the issued and outstanding capital stock of maiden. mr. zyskind serves as the non-executive chairman of maiden’s board of directors. maiden insurance, a wholly-owned subsidiary of maiden, is a bermuda reinsurer. conflicts of interest could arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to maiden or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or our subsidiaries, on the other hand. in addition, potential conflicts of interest may arise should our interests and those of maiden diverge. mr. zyskind’s service as our president and chief executive officer and non-executive chairman of the board of maiden could also raise a potential challenge under anti-trust laws. section 8 of the clayton antitrust act prohibits a person from serving as a director or officer in any two competing corporations under certain circumstances. if we and maiden were in the future deemed to be competitors within the meaning of the clayton antitrust act and certain thresholds relating to direct competition between us and maiden are met, the department of justice and federal trade commission could challenge the arrangement. our relationship with nghc and its subsidiaries may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest, business opportunity issues and legal challenges. nghc is an insurance holding company that was formed in march 2010 to purchase the gmac insurance consumer property and casualty business from gmac insurance holdings, inc. and motors insurance corporation. we own 15.4% of 41 table of contents the issued and outstanding common stock of nghc, michael karfunkel (individually) owns 15.8% of the issued and outstanding common stock of nghc and the trust owns 41.3% of the issued and outstanding common stock of nghc. two members of our board of directors, donald t. decarlo, who is an independent member of our board of directors, and barry d. zyskind, are also members of nghc’s board of directors. in addition, michael karfunkel is the chairman of the board of directors of nghc. conflicts of interest could arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to acac or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or our subsidiaries, on the other hand. mr. zyskind’s service as our president and chief executive officer and as a member of nghc’s board and mr. decarlo’s services as a member of our board and nghc’s board could also raise a potential challenge under anti-trust laws. section 8 of the clayton antitrust act prohibits a person from serving as a director or officer in any two competing corporations under certain circumstances. if we and nghc were in the future deemed to be competitors within the meaning of the clayton antitrust act and certain thresholds relating to direct competition between us and nghc are met, the department of justice and federal trade commission could challenge the arrangement. we receive significant ceding commission from maiden. we receive significant ceding commission from maiden through the maiden quota share and our reinsurance agreement with maiden insurance for our european medical liability business. pursuant to the maiden quota share, aii retrocedes to maiden insurance an amount equal to 40% of the premium written by our u.s., irish and u.k. insurance companies, or the amtrust ceding insurers, net of the cost of unaffiliated inuring reinsurance (and in the case of our u.k. insurance subsidiary, ael, net of commissions) and 40% of losses, excluding certain business that we commenced writing after the effective date and risks, other than workers’ compensation risks and certain business written by our irish subsidiary, aiu, for which the amtrust ceding insurers’ net retention exceeds $5.0 million (the “covered business”). the maiden quota share, as amended, further provides that aii receives a ceding commission based on a percentage of ceded written premiums with respect to all covered business. effective january 1, 2013, aii receives a ceding commission of 31% of ceded written premiums with respect to all covered business other than retail commercial package business, for which the ceding commission remains 34.375%. with regards to the specialty program portion of covered business only, we will be responsible for ultimate net loss otherwise recoverable from maiden insurance to the extent that the loss ratio to maiden insurance, which shall be determined on an inception to date basis from july 1, 2007 through the date of calculation, is between 81.5% and 95% (the “specialty program loss corridor”). for purposes of determining whether the loss ratio falls within the specialty program loss corridor, workers’ compensation business written in our specialty program segment from july 1, 2007 through december 31, 2012 is excluded from the loss ratio calculation. effective april 1, 2011, we, through our subsidiaries ael and aiu, entered into a reinsurance agreement with maiden insurance by which we cede to maiden insurance 40% of our european medical liability business, including business in force at april 1, 2011. the quota share had an initial term of one year, automatically renews for one-year terms, and was renewed through march 31, 2015. the agreement can be terminated by either party on four months’ notice. maiden insurance pays us a 5% ceding commission, and we earn a profit commission of 50% of the amount by which the ceded loss ratio is lower than 65%. we may be unable to maintain these arrangements beyond their current terms, and we may not be able to readily replace these arrangements if they terminate. if we were unable to continue or replace these arrangements on equally favorable terms, our underwriting capacity and commission and fee income could decline, we could experience a downgrade in our a.m. best rating, and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. we receive significant service and fee income from nghc and maiden. we receive significant service and fee income from nghc and maiden through asset management agreements, by which we manage maiden’s and nghc’s invested assets, a reinsurance brokerage agreement with maiden, by which we provide maiden insurance certain reinsurance brokerage services, and a master services agreement with nghc, by which we provide nghc and its affiliates information technology development services in connection with the development and licensing of a policy management system and printing and mailing services for policy and policy related materials, such as invoices, quotes, 42 table of contents notices and endorsements, associated with the policies we process for nghc and its affiliates on the policy management system. pursuant to the asset management agreements, we receive from each of maiden and nghc an annual rate of 0.20% for periods in which each company's respective average invested assets are $1.0 billion or less and an annual rate of 0.15% for periods in which each company's respective average invested assets exceeds $1.0 billion. pursuant to the brokerage agreement with maiden insurance, we provide brokerage services relating to the maiden quota share for a fee equal to 1.25% of reinsured premium. pursuant to the master services agreement with nghc, we provide nghc and its affiliates the information technology development services described above at a cost of 1.25% of gross written premium of nghc and its affiliates plus our costs for development and support services. we provide the printing and mailing services at a per piece cost for policy and policy related materials. we may be unable to maintain these arrangements. if we no longer provide these services to maiden and nghc and do not replace them with services provided to other parties on equally favorable terms and at similar levels, our service and fee income could decline, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we may not be able to successfully acquire or integrate additional business or manage the growth of our operations, which could make it difficult for us to compete and could negatively affect our profitability. from time to time we may pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives. the process of integrating an acquired business or company can be complex and costly, may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and will require substantial management attention. we may not be able to successfully identify and acquire additional existing business on acceptable terms or integrate any business that we acquire. in addition, our growth strategy of expanding in our existing markets, opportunistically acquiring books of business, other insurance companies or producers, entering new geographic markets and further developing our relationships with independent agencies and extended warranty/service contract administrators subjects us to various risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • identify profitable new geographic markets for entry; • attract and retain qualified personnel for expanded operations; • identify, recruit and integrate new independent agencies and extended warranty/service contract administrators; • integrate information technology systems; • manage risks associated with the acquisition of entities in foreign markets with which we are less familiar; • expand existing agency relationships; and • augment our internal monitoring and control systems as we expand our business. we may not be able to effectively manage our growth and any new business may not be profitable. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems to conduct our business, and our success and profitability rely, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and implement technology improvements. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. in addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in accelerated recognition of expenses. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology platform, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. 43 table of contents if we experience security breaches or other disruptions involving our technology, our ability to conduct our business could be adversely affected, we could be liable to third parties and our reputation could suffer. our business is dependent upon the uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunication systems. we rely upon our systems, as well as the systems of our vendors, to perform business functions, such as underwriting and administering policies, processing claim payments, providing customer support, and complying with insurance regulatory requirements. our operations are dependent upon our ability to process our business timely and efficiently and protect our information systems from physical loss or unauthorized access. in the event one or more of our facilities cannot be accessed due to a natural catastrophe, terrorist attack or power outage, or systems and telecommunications failures or outages, external attacks such as computer viruses, malware or cyber-attacks, or other disruption occur, our ability to perform business operations on a timely basis could be significantly impaired and may cause our systems to be inaccessible for an extended period of time. a sustained business interruption or system failure could adversely impact our ability to perform necessary business operations in a timely manner and affect our financial condition and results of operations. our operations depend on the reliable and secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. computer viruses, hackers, employee misconduct and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches, cyber-attacks or other disruptions. in addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by electronic means. our systems and networks may be subject to breaches or interference. any such event may result in operational disruptions as well as unauthorized access to or the disclosure or loss of our proprietary information or our customers' information, which in turn may result in legal claims, regulatory scrutiny and liability, reputational damage, the incurrence of costs to eliminate or mitigate further exposure, the loss of customers or affiliated advisors or other damage to our business. in addition, the trend toward broad consumer and general public notification of such incidents and negative media attention could exacerbate the harm to our business, financial condition or results of operations. even if we successfully protect our technology infrastructure and the confidentiality of sensitive data, we could suffer harm to our business and reputation if attempted security breaches are publicized. advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments could compromise or breach the technology or other security measures protecting the networks and systems used in connection with our business. if our businesses do not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests at least annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. if we determine that the goodwill has been impaired, we would be required to write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. intangible assets represent the amount of fair value assigned to certain assets when we acquire a subsidiary or a book of business. intangible assets are classified as having either a finite or an indefinite life. we test the recoverability of our intangible assets at least annually. we test the recoverability of finite life intangibles whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a finite life intangible may not be recoverable. we recognize an impairment if the carrying value of an intangible asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value, in which circumstances we must write down the intangible asset by the amount of the impairment with a corresponding charge to net income. such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. our specialty risk and extended warranty business is dependent upon the sale by third parties of products covered by warranties and service contracts. our specialty risk and extended warranty segment primarily covers manufacturers, service providers and retailers for the cost of performing their obligations under extended warranties and service contracts (and, as required by applicable law, insurance products) provided in connection with the sale or lease of various types of consumer electronics, automobiles, light and heavy construction equipment and other consumer and commercial products. thus, any decrease in the sale or leasing of these products, whether due to economic factors or otherwise, is likely to have an adverse impact upon our specialty risk and extended warranty business. we cannot materially influence the success of our specialty risk clients’ primary product sales and leasing efforts. 44 table of contents some of the largest purchasers of our specialty risk insurance products in the united states are manufacturers, service providers and retailers that issue extended warranties or service contracts for consumer and commercial-grade goods, including coverage against accidental damage to the goods covered by the warranty or service contract (where currently permitted in the applicable jurisdiction). we insure these policyholders against the cost of repairing or replacing such goods in the event of such accidental damage. state insurance regulators may take the position that certain of the extended warranties or service contracts issued by our policyholders constitute insurance contracts that may only be issued by licensed insurance companies. in that event, the extended warranty or service contract business of our policyholders may have to be restructured, which could adversely affect our specialty risk and extended warranty business. if we cannot sustain our business relationships, including our relationships with independent agencies and third-party warranty administrators, manufacturers, services providers or retailers, we may be unable to operate profitably. our business relationships are generally governed by agreements with manufacturers, services providers and retailers, agents and warranty administrators that may be terminated on short notice. we market our insurance and specialty risk and extended warranty products primarily through independent wholesale and retail agencies, in addition to working directly with manufacturers, services providers and retailers. except in connection with certain acquisitions, independent agencies generally are not obligated to promote our products and may sell insurance and specialty risk and extended warranty products offered by our competitors. as a result, our continued profitability depends, in part, on the marketing efforts of our independent agencies and on our ability to offer our products and insurance and maintain financial strength ratings that meet the requirements and preferences of our independent agencies and their policyholders. we use third-party managing general agents and administrators to underwrite policies and manage claims on our behalf for some portions of our business, including our specialty risk and extended warranty segment and our specialty program business segment. we are dependent on the skills and performance of these parties, and we cannot control their actions, although we do provide underwriting guidelines and periodically audit their performance. the loss of the services of these providers, or our inability to contract and retain other skilled service providers from a limited pool of qualified insurance service providers, could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy or could otherwise adversely affect us. our significant level of indebtedness could limit cash flow available for our operations and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2013, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $560 million. this $560 million does not include approximately $168 million aggregate principal amount of a loan made by maiden insurance to aii in connection with a reinsurance agreement between the two parties that requires maiden insurance to provide sufficient collateral to secure its proportionate share of aii’s obligations. this amount is accounted for as a note payable on our balance sheet. we may incur additional indebtedness to meet future financing needs. our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences for our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring the dedication of portions of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; • restricting our operational flexibility due to restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to explore certain business opportunities, dispose of assets and take other actions; • increasing dilution experienced by our existing stockholders as a result of the conversion of our convertible senior notes into shares of common stock; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources. as of december 31, 2013, our annual debt service obligation on our outstanding indebtedness was approximately $35 million. we may be unable to maintain sufficient cash reserves, our business may not generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or our cash needs may increase. if we were unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we failed to comply with the various requirements of our credit facilities, our convertible senior notes, our 6.125% notes due 45 table of contents 2023, or any indebtedness that we have incurred or may incur in the future, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our convertible senior notes, our 6.125% notes due 2023, or other indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of such notes or other indebtedness and could cause defaults under our credit facilities or our other notes and indebtedness. any default under our notes, our credit facilities or any indebtedness that we have incurred or may incur in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. additional capital that we may require in the future may not be available to us, or only available to us on unfavorable terms. our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including regulatory requirements, the financial stability of our reinsurers, future acquisitions and our ability to write new business and establish premium rates sufficient to cover our estimated claims. we may need to raise additional capital or curtail our growth to support future operating requirements or cover claims. if we have to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available to us or may be available only on terms that are not favorable, such as terms resulting in dilution to our stockholders, or the securities sold may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our currently issued and outstanding common stock. in addition, under certain circumstances, we may sell our common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into shares of our common stock, at a price per share less than the market value of our common stock. if we cannot obtain adequate additional capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to support future growth or operating requirements and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the covenants in our credit facilities and indentures governing our convertible senior notes and 6.125% notes due 2023 limit our financial and operational flexibility, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. our credit facilities and indentures governing our convertible senior notes and 6.125% notes due 2023 contain covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to borrow money, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, sell assets, merge or consolidate. these covenants could restrict our ability to achieve our business objectives, and therefore, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. in addition, our credit facilities and the indenture governing our 6.125% notes due 2023 also require us to maintain specific financial ratios. if we fail to comply with these covenants or meet these financial ratios, the lenders under our credit facilities could cancel their commitments to lend and/or issue letters of credit and the lenders under our credit facilities and our noteholders could declare a default and demand immediate repayment of all amounts owed to them. if we were unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. investment income is an important component of our net income. we primarily manage our investment portfolio internally under investment guidelines approved by our board of directors and the boards of directors of our subsidiaries. our investments are subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to general economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations, market volatility, various regulatory issues, credit risk, potential litigation, tax audits, tax law changes and disputes, failure to monetize in an effective and/or cost-efficient manner and poor operating results. general economic conditions may be adversely affected by u.s. involvement in hostilities with other countries and large-scale acts of terrorism, or the threat of hostilities or terrorist acts. we may be forced to liquidate investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. investment losses could decrease our asset base and adversely affect our ability to conduct business and pay claims. any significant decline in our investment income would adversely affect our revenues and net income and, as a result, decrease our surplus and stockholders’ equity. a significant amount of our assets is invested in fixed income securities and is subject to market fluctuations. our investment portfolio consists substantially of fixed income securities. as of december 31, 2013, our investment in fixed income securities was approximately $3.41 billion, or 76.3% of our total investment portfolio. the fair market value of these assets and the investment income from these assets fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. the fair market value of fixed income securities generally decreases as interest rates rise. conversely, if interest rates decline, the fair market value of fixed income securities generally increases. however, investment income earned from future investments in fixed income securities will decrease due to being reinvested at lower interest rates. in addition, some fixed income securities, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, carry prepayment risk as a result of interest rate fluctuations. based upon the composition and duration of our investment portfolio at december 31, 46 table of contents 2013, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair value of our investments of approximately $173.8 million. the value of investments in fixed income securities, and particularly our investments in high-yield securities, is subject to impairment as a result of deterioration in the credit worthiness of the issuer or increases in market interest rates. our investments are subject to losses as a result of a general decrease in commercial and economic activity for an industry sector in which we invest, as well as risks inherent in particular securities. these conditions could result in lower than expected yields on our fixed securities and short term investment portfolio. in addition, our investment in less liquid investments, such as our investment in nghc and life settlement contracts, is subject to increased valuation uncertainty because the valuation is more subjective, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying cost) does not reflect the price at which an actual transaction would occur. to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn or recession. as a result of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, our net investment income could decrease, or we could experience realized and/or unrealized investment losses, all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. a portion of our financial assets consist of life settlement contracts that are subject to certain risks. as of december 31, 2013, the fair value of our portfolio of life settlement contracts was approximately $233 million and constituted approximately 4.6% of the fair value of our cash and investment portfolio (inclusive of these life settlement contracts). we have a 50% ownership interest in the entities that hold the life settlement contracts. our estimates of fair value of the life settlement contracts we hold are subjective and based upon, among other factors, the cost of the policy at the date of purchase, recent purchases and sales of similar investments (if available and applicable), financial standing of the issuer, changes in economic conditions affecting the issuer, maintenance cost, premiums, benefits, standard mortality tables and life expectancy reports. the actual value to us of any life settlement contract we acquire cannot be determined until the policy matures (i.e., the insured has died and the insurance carrier has paid out the death benefit to the holder). a significant negative difference between the estimated fair value of a contract and actual death benefits received at maturity for any life settlement contract we hold could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we apply an investment discount rate to our estimate of fair value based on the cost of funding our life settlement contracts as compared to returns on investments in asset classes with comparable credit quality to the expected cash flow generated by the policies in our portfolio, net of policy-specific adjustments and reserves. we establish policy-specific reserves for the following uncertainties: improvements in mortality, the possibility that high net worth individuals represented in the portfolio may have access to better health care, the volatility inherent in determining the life expectancy of insureds with significant reported health impairments, the possibility that the issuer of the policy or a third party will contest the payment of the death benefit payable to us, and the future expenses related to the administration of the portfolio. the application of the investment discount rate to the expected cash flow generated by the portfolio, net of these policy-specific reserves, yields the fair value of the portfolio. if the discount rate changes, the value of the life settlement contract will also change. generally, if discount rates increase, the fair value of a life settlement contract decreases. if a life settlement contract is sold or otherwise disposed of in the future under a relatively higher interest rate environment, the contract may have a lower value than the value it had when we acquired it. in addition, our results of operations and earnings may fluctuate depending on the number of life settlement contracts acquired in a given period and the fair value of those assets at the end of the applicable period. any reduction in the fair value of these assets will be a charge to our gross income in the period in which the reduction occurs and could adversely affect our financial results for that period. furthermore, the market for life settlement contracts is relatively illiquid when compared to that for other asset classes, and there is currently no established trading platform or market by which investors in the life settlement market buy and sell life settlement contracts. although we do not currently intend to sell significant numbers of life settlement contracts in the secondary life settlement market, if we were (or needed) to sell a life settlement contract, it is possible that the lack of liquidity at that time could make the sale of such life settlement contract difficult or impossible. therefore, we bear the risks of having to sell life settlement contracts at substantial discounts or not being able to sell life settlement contracts in a timely manner or at all which may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 47 table of contents we are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in the united kingdom, bermuda, italy, ireland, france, and luxembourg. while our business outside of the united states currently constitutes approximately 27% of our gross written premium, we are subject to a number of significant risks in conducting such business. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive government actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. investments outside the united states also subject us to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials. if our controls are ineffective and an employee or intermediary fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties and our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. in addition, some countries have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of the local laws. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. our operating results may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations and our ability to repatriate cash from our foreign operations. our functional currency is the u.s. dollar. for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, approximately 27% and 29%, respectively, of our gross written premiums written were written in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, approximately 27% and 20%, respectively, of our cash and investments were denominated in non-u.s. currencies. we hold investments denominated in euros and british pounds because we write business in the eu and the united kingdom, and may, from time to time, experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of these non-u.s. currencies or be unable to repatriate cash to the united states, or otherwise make available cash in the united states, and to do so at a favorable foreign exchange rate and with favorable tax ramifications, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. we may be subject to taxes on our luxembourg affiliates’ equalization reserves. in 2009, we acquired a luxembourg holding company and five luxembourg-domiciled reinsurance companies. during 2010 - 2013, we made several additional acquisitions of luxembourg-domiciled reinsurance companies. in connection with these transactions, we acquire cash and the associated equalization reserves of the reinsurance companies. an “equalization reserve” is a compulsory volatility or catastrophe reserve in excess of required reserves determined by a formula based on the volatility of the business ceded to the reinsurance company. luxembourg reinsurance companies are required to establish equalization reserves for luxembourg statutory and tax purposes, but the equalization reserves are not recognized under u.s. gaap. for a more detailed description of the acquisitions of these luxembourg-domiciled reinsurance companies, see “item 7. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - acquisitions - ahl.” provided that we are able to utilize the equalization reserves to offset our net retained losses through intercompany reinsurance arrangements, luxembourg would not, under laws currently in effect, impose any income, corporation or profits tax on the reinsurance companies. however, if the reinsurance companies were to cease reinsuring business without exhausting the equalization reserves, they would recognize income that would be taxed by luxembourg at a rate of approximately 30%. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $621 million of unutilized equalization reserves and an associated deferred tax liability equal to approximately 30% of the unutilized portion of the equalization reserves of approximately $186 million. during the year ended december 31, 2013, we recorded a reduction of approximately $10 million of income tax expenses to reflect the reduction of the deferred tax liability related to the utilization of the equalization reserves. resolution of uncertain tax matters and changes in tax laws or taxing authority interpretations of tax laws could result in actual tax benefits or deductions that are different than we have estimated, both with regard to amounts recognized and the timing of recognition. such differences could affect our results of operations or cash flows. our provision for income taxes, our recorded tax liabilities and net deferred tax assets, including any valuation allowances, are recorded based on estimates. these estimates require us to make significant judgments regarding a number of factors, including, among others, the applicability of various federal and state laws, our interpretation of tax laws and the interpretations given to those tax laws by taxing authorities and courts, the timing of future income and deductions, and our expected levels and sources of future taxable income. additionally, from time to time there are changes to tax laws and interpretations of tax laws that could change our estimates of the amount of tax benefits or deductions expected to be available to us in future periods. in either case, changes to our prior estimates would be reflected in the period changed and could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 48 table of contents we are subject to u.s. federal and various state and foreign jurisdiction taxes. we are periodically under routine examination by various federal, state, local and foreign authorities regarding tax matters and our tax positions could be successfully challenged and the costs of defending our tax positions could be considerable, both of which could negatively affect our results of operations. our business is dependent on the efforts of our principal executive officers. our success is dependent on the efforts of our principal executive officers, barry d. zyskind, ronald e. pipoly, jr., michael saxon, christopher longo and max caviet, because of their industry expertise, knowledge of our markets and relationships with our independent agencies and warranty administrators. although we have entered into employment agreements with all of our principal executive officers, should any of these executive officers cease working for us, we may be unable to find acceptable replacements with comparable skills and experience in the workers’ compensation insurance industry and/or the specialty risk sectors that we target, and our business may be adversely affected. we do not currently maintain life insurance policies with respect to our executive officers or other employees. we are an insurance holding company and do not have any direct operations. our operations are substantially conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries as a holding company, we do not own any significant assets other than equity in our subsidiaries. payments from our insurance subsidiaries pursuant to management agreements and tax sharing agreements, as well as fee income we generate from providing services discussed throughout this report, are our primary source of funds to pay our direct expenses. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions or other payments to us depends on the availability of cash flow from operations and proceeds from the sale of assets and other capital-raising activities. dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries to us may be subject to contractual and other restrictions and are subject to other business considerations. payment of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries is restricted by insurance laws of various states, and the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business (primarily ireland, united kingdom and bermuda), including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds. as a result, at times, we may not be able to receive dividends from our insurance subsidiaries, which would affect our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock, as discussed below. as of december 31, 2013, our insurance subsidiaries collectively could pay dividends to us of $473 million without prior regulatory approval. any dividends paid by our subsidiaries would reduce their surplus. the inability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and other permitted payments in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level would have a material adverse effect on our operations. risks related to our industry the property and casualty insurance industry is cyclical in nature, which may affect our overall financial performance. historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical periods of price competition and excess capacity (known as a soft market) followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity (known as a hard market). although an individual insurance company’s financial performance is also dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. we cannot predict with certainty the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle because the cyclicality is due in large part to the actions of our competitors and general economic factors beyond our control. we have experienced increased price competition in certain of our target markets, and these cyclical patterns, the actions of our competitors, and general economic factors could cause our revenues and net income to fluctuate, which may cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. although we engage in other businesses, approximately 40% of our gross written premium currently is attributable to workers’ compensation insurance. as a result, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. for example, in certain states in which we do business, insurance regulators set the premium rates we may charge. in addition, if legislators in one of our larger markets were to enact legislation to increase the scope or amount of benefits for employees under workers’ compensation insurance policies without related premium increases or loss control measures, this could negatively affect the workers’ compensation insurance industry. negative developments in the workers’ compensation 49 table of contents insurance industry could have a greater effect on us than on more diversified insurance companies that also sell many other types of insurance. a decline in the level of business activity of our policyholders could negatively affect our earnings and profitability. primarily all of our workers’ compensation gross premiums written were derived from small businesses. because workers’ compensation premium rates are calculated, in general, as a percentage of a policyholder’s payroll expense, premiums fluctuate depending upon the level of business activity and number of employees of our policyholders. small businesses may be more vulnerable to changes in economic conditions because of their size. we believe that the most common reason for policyholder non-renewals is business failure. as a result, our workers’ compensation gross premiums written are primarily dependent upon economic conditions where our policyholders operate. we operate in a highly competitive industry and may lack the financial resources to compete effectively. we compete with other insurance companies, both domestic and foreign, and many of our existing and potential competitors are significantly larger, have longer operating histories, and possess greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. in our small commercial business segment, we also compete with individual self-insured companies, state insurance pools and self-insurance funds. we compete on the basis of many factors, including coverage availability, responsiveness to the needs of our independent producers, claims management, payment/settlement terms, premium rates, policy terms, types of insurance offered, overall financial strength, financial ratings and reputation. if any of our competitors offer premium rates, policy terms or types of insurance that are more competitive than ours, we could lose market share. we may be unable to maintain our current competitive position in the markets in which we currently operate or establish a competitive position in new markets into which we may expand. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. in some instances, these changes may not become apparent until after we have issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. as a result, the full extent of our liability under an insurance policy may not be known until many years after the policy is issued. for example, medical costs associated with permanent and partial disabilities may increase more rapidly or be higher than we currently expect. changes of this nature may expose us to higher claims than we anticipated when we wrote the underlying policy. unexpected increases in our claim costs many years after policies are issued may also result in our inability to recover from certain of our reinsurers the full amount that they would otherwise owe us for such claims costs because certain of the reinsurance agreements covering our business include commutation clauses that permit the reinsurers to terminate their obligations by making a final payment to us based on an estimate of their remaining liabilities. in addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to deem by statute the existence of a covered occurrence, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could be harmful to our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability, limit our growth or restrict our ability to transact business. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which they do business. for a discussion of the various types of regulation we face, see “item 1. business – regulation.” insurance regulation generally is intended to protect policyholders, not shareholders. in the united states, insurance regulation generally is administered by each state through its state insurance department. states regulate, among other things: • solvency; • the lines of business we may transact; • certain transactions between our insurance subsidiaries and affiliates, including us; • the nature, quality and concentration of our investments; • rates we may charge and the terms and conditions of our policy forms; and • dividends paid by our insurance subsidiaries. 50 table of contents as more fully described in “item 1. business – regulation – united states – federal and state legislative and regulatory changes,” in recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the naic and state insurance regulators are continually reexamining existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to statutory accounting principles, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. the naic has undertaken a solvency modernization initiative focused on updating the u.s. insurance solvency regulation framework, including capital requirements, governance and risk management, group supervision, accounting and financial reporting and reinsurance. although the u.s. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, there have been proposals from time to time, including during and after the financial crisis in 2008, to impose federal regulation on the insurance industry. on july 21, 2010, the u.s. president signed into law the dodd-frank act, which is more fully described in “item 1. business – regulation – united states – federal and state legislative and regulatory changes.” in addition, our business can be indirectly affected by changes in healthcare, occupational safety and health, and tax and financial regulations. since healthcare costs are a large component of our claims costs, we may be impacted by changes in healthcare legislation, such as the ongoing implementation of the affordable care act, which could effect healthcare costs and delivery in the future. these types of state and federal regulations could impose significant burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs, and could result in a competitive disadvantage. our non-u.s. subsidiaries are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they operate. in the event that a regulatory authority determines that we have failed to comply with regulatory requirements applicable to our business, we could be subject to actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, such as fines, penalties or orders to cease transacting business. furthermore, the enactment of new laws and regulations and changes in the interpretations of existing laws and regulations that are not yet contemplated could have a material adverse effect on our business. the european union’s executive body, the european commission, is implementing new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called “solvency ii” that would apply to our businesses across the european union (including the united kingdom), as more fully described in “item 1. business – regulation –  solvency ii.” while it is not yet known how solvency ii will impact us or when it will be implemented, such regulation could result in a need for additional capital, increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management. it is possible that solvency ii may increase our capital requirements and the new regulations have the potential to adversely affect the profitability of our businesses subject to solvency ii. in addition, at this point, it is unclear whether the new regulations will apply only to our businesses across the european union (including the united kingdom) or to all of our operations, both within and outside of the european union. if the regulations do apply to our holding company in the u.s., we could be subject to even more onerous requirements under the new regulations, which could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. regulators in bermuda and other jurisdictions in which we operate are also considering various proposals for financial and regulatory reform. the future impact of such initiatives, if any, on our results of operations or our financial condition cannot be determined at this time. we are unable to predict whether any of these laws and regulations will be adopted, the form in which any such laws and regulations would be adopted, or the effect, if any, these developments would have on our operations and financial condition. we may have exposure to losses from terrorism for which we are required by law to provide coverage regarding such losses. u.s. insurers are required by state and federal law to offer coverage for terrorism in certain commercial lines, including workers’ compensation. as discussed under “item 1. business – regulation – united states – federal and state legislative and regulatory changes,” in response to the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the u.s. congress enacted legislation designed to ensure, among other things, the availability of insurance coverage for foreign terrorist acts, including the requirement that insurers offer such coverage in certain commercial lines. the terrorism risk insurance act, or tria, as extended by the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2007, or tripra, requires commercial property and casualty insurance companies to offer coverage for certain acts of terrorism and established a federal assistance program through the end of 2014 to help such insurers cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses. the impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on us would depend upon the nature, extent, location and timing of such an act. although we reinsure a portion of the risk we retain under the program, our terrorism reinsurance does not provide coverage for an act stemming from nuclear, biological or chemical terrorism. 51 table of contents our policies providing specialty risk and extended warranty coverage are not intended to provide coverage for losses arising from acts of terrorism. accordingly, we have not obtained reinsurance for terrorism losses nor taken any steps to preserve our rights to the benefits of the tria program for this line of business and would not be entitled to recover from our reinsurers or the tria program if we were required to pay any terrorism losses under our specialty risk and extended warranty segment. there have been no claims filed under the tria program as of yet, so there is still a great deal of uncertainty regarding how the federal government will implement the rules governing such claims. it is possible that the fact that we have not taken steps to preserve our right to the benefits of the tria program for the u.s. portion of our specialty risk and extended warranty segment may adversely affect our ability to collect under the program generally. the federal terrorism risk assistance provided by tria and tripra will expire at the end of 2014. as a result of the above, there remains considerable uncertainty regarding the extent and adequacy of terrorism coverage that will be available to protect our interests in the event of future terrorist attacks. any future renewal by the u.s. congress may be on substantially less favorable terms. the effects of litigation on our business are uncertain. although we are not currently involved in any material litigation with our customers, other members of the insurance industry are the target of class action lawsuits and other types of litigation, some of which involve claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts, and the outcomes of which are unpredictable. this litigation is based on a variety of issues, including insurance and claim settlement practices. if we become subject to such litigation, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to our common stock and series a preferred stock our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of developments beyond our control, which may cause volatility in the price of our shares of common stock, which consequently could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our convertible senior notes, and the market price of our series a preferred stock. our common stock is listed on the nasdaq global select market under the symbol “afsi.” our series a preferred stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the symbol “afsi-a.”our performance, as well as the risks discussed herein, government or regulatory action, tax laws, interest rates and general market conditions could have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock, which could also materially and adversely affect the trading price of our convertible senior notes, and the market price of our series a preferred stock. developments that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price of our common stock or series a preferred stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; • changes to our earnings estimates or publications of research reports about us or the industry; • rising level of claims costs, changes in the frequency or severity of claims or new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurance company liability; • the financial stability of our third-party reinsurers, changes in the level of reinsurance capacity, termination of reinsurance arrangements and changes in our capital capacity; • increase in market interest rates that may lead purchasers of common or preferred stock to demand a higher yield; • changes in market valuations of other insurance companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; • fluctuations in interest rates or inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment that affect returns on invested assets; • changes to our credit worthiness; • the market for similar securities; • additions or departures of key personnel; • reaction to the sale or purchase of company stock by our principal stockholders or our executive officers; • changes in the economic environment in the markets in which we operate, including reduction in the business activities of our policyholders; • changes in tax law; 52 table of contents • speculation in the press or investment community; and • general market, economic and political conditions. if our revenues and results of operations fluctuate as a result of one or more of these developments, the price of our common stock may be volatile, which could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our convertible senior notes. further, because the notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed market prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of our convertible senior notes. holders who receive shares of our common stock upon conversion of the notes will also be subject to the risk of volatility and depressed market prices of our common stock. failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our common stock price, the trading price of our convertible senior notes and  the market price of our series a preferred stock. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the sec require an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at the end of the fiscal year. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the sec. if we cannot in the future favorably assess, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reports may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our common and preferred stock prices and the trading price of our convertible senior notes. our principal stockholders have the ability to control our business, which may be disadvantageous to other stockholders. based on the number of shares outstanding as of december 31, 2013, barry d. zyskind, michael karfunkel, leah karfunkel (wife of michael karfunkel and sole trustee of the michael karfunkel 2005 grantor retained annuity trust) and george karfunkel, directly or indirectly, collectively own or control approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. these stockholders may have interests that are different from other stockholders. in addition, we are a “controlled company” as defined in nasdaq listing rule 5615(c). at present, a majority of the members of our board of directors are independent. as a controlled company, each of our board committees, except our audit committee, may include non-independent directors. the audit committee independence requirements imposed by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 apply to us, and we have organized our audit committee to meet these requirements. if we were to cease being a controlled company as a result of the issuance of common stock by us or dispositions of common stock beneficially held by barry d. zyskind, michael karfunkel, leah karfunkel and george karfunkel, we would have to comply with the board committee independence requirements of the nasdaq global select market within specified periods, which would involve having an entirely independent compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committees within one year after ceasing to be a controlled company. if we are unable to achieve compliance with these requirements, our common stock could be de-listed from the nasdaq global select market. in addition, michael karfunkel and george karfunkel, through entities that each of them controls, have entered into transactions with us and may from time to time in the future enter into other transactions with us. as a result, these individuals may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, their interest as our stockholders. such transactions may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. our principal stockholders could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger of our company even if the transaction could benefit other stockholders. moreover, this concentration of share ownership makes it impossible for other stockholders to replace directors and management without the consent of the controlling stockholders. in addition, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the price prospective buyers are willing to pay for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect the trading price of our convertible senior notes. 53 table of contents we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock or series a preferred stock. as discussed above, the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends is regulated and under certain circumstances, restricted, pursuant to applicable law. if our insurance subsidiaries could not pay dividends, we may not, in turn, be able to pay dividends to shareholders. in addition, the terms of our junior subordinated debentures and our credit facilities limit, in some circumstances, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and series a preferred stock, and future financing arrangements may include prohibitions on dividends or other restrictions. for these reasons, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock or series a preferred stock. we have a history of paying dividends to our shareholders. however, future cash dividends will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and other factors including the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, which ability is restricted in the manner discussed above. also, we may be unable to continue to pay dividends even if the necessary financial conditions are met and if sufficient cash is available for distribution. our shares of series a preferred stock are equity interests and are subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness. our shares of series a preferred stock are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. as such, the series a preferred stock ranks junior to all of our indebtedness and other non-equity claims of our creditors with respect to assets available to satisfy our claims, including our liquidation, dissolution and winding up. as of december 31, 2013, our total consolidated debt was $560 million and our total consolidated liabilities were approximately $9.7 billion. we may incur additional debt and liabilities in the future. our existing and future indebtedness may restrict payments of dividends on the series a preferred stock. additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of the series a preferred stock, dividends are payable only if declared by our board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board). our ability to pay dividends on the series a preferred stock may be limited by the terms of our agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness and by the provisions of other existing and future agreements. dividends on the series a preferred stock are non-cumulative. dividends on the series a preferred stock are non-cumulative and payable only out of our legally available funds. consequently, if our board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) does not authorize and declare a dividend for any dividend period with respect to the series a preferred stock, holders of the series a preferred stock will not be entitled to receive any such dividend, and such unpaid dividend will not accumulate and will never be payable. we have no obligation to pay dividends for a dividend period on or after the dividend payment date for such period if our board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) has not declared such dividend before the related dividend payment date. if dividends on the series a preferred stock are authorized and declared with respect to any subsequent dividend period, we will be free to pay dividends on any other series of preferred stock and/or our common stock. we may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to finance any required purchases of our convertible senior notes upon the occurrence of a “fundamental change,” which would constitute an event of default under our indenture. if a fundamental change (as such term is defined in the indenture governing our convertible senior notes) occurs, holders of our convertible senior notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to purchase for cash any or all of the notes, or any portion of the principal amount thereof such that the principal amount that remains outstanding of each note purchased in part equals $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. the fundamental change purchase price will equal 100% of the principal amount of the convertible senior notes to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the fundamental change purchase date. however, we may not have sufficient funds at the time we are required to purchase the convertible senior notes surrendered therefor and we may not be able to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms, if at all. we have not established a sinking fund for payment of the convertible senior notes, nor do we anticipate doing so. in addition, our ability to purchase the convertible senior notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or we may in the future enter into credit agreements or other agreements that may contain provisions prohibiting redemption or repurchase of the notes under certain circumstances, or may provide that a designated event constitutes an event of default under that agreement. if a fundamental change occurs at a time when we are prohibited from purchasing the convertible senior notes, we could seek a waiver from the holders of these notes or attempt to refinance these notes. if we were not able to obtain consent, we would not be permitted to purchase the convertible senior notes. our failure to purchase tendered convertible senior notes would 54 table of contents constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes, which might constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness. the conditional conversion features of the convertible senior notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition. if one of the conversion contingencies is triggered, holders of our convertible senior notes will be entitled to convert the notes at any time during specified periods. if one or more holders elect to convert their convertible senior notes, we may be required to settle all or a portion of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity and various aspects of our business (including the trading price of our convertible senior notes). certain provisions in our convertible senior notes and the related indenture could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover or takeover attempt of us and, therefore, the ability of holders to exercise their rights associated with a potential fundamental change or a make-whole fundamental change. certain provisions in our convertible senior notes and the related indenture could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. for example, if an acquisition event constitutes a fundamental change, holders of our convertible senior notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash. in addition, if an acquisition event constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, we may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change. in any of these cases, and in other cases, our obligations under the convertible senior notes and the related indenture as well as provisions of our organizational documents and other agreements could increase the cost of acquiring us. item 1b. unresolved