item 1a. risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely harmed. the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and, as a result, you may lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business we have incurred losses to date, anticipate continuing to incur losses in the future and may never achieve or sustain profitability. we have incurred significant losses in each year since our inception and believe that we will continue to incur losses and negative cash flow from operations into at least 2014. as of december 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $821.4 million and had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $8.3 million. we have significant outstanding debt and contractual obligations related to purchase commitments, as well as capital and operating leases. as of december 31, 2013, our debt totaled $152.1 million, net of discount of $27.9 million, of which $6.4 million matures within the next twelve months. in january 2014, we closed the issuance of an additional $34.0 million of debt pursuant to agreements entered into in 2013. in addition, our debt agreements contain various covenants, including restrictions on business that could cause us to be at risk of defaults. we expect to incur additional costs and expenses related to the continued development and expansion of our business, including construction and operation of our manufacturing facilities, contract manufacturing, research and development operations, and operation of our pilot plants and demonstration facility. there can be no assurance that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. we have limited experience producing our products at commercial scale and may not be able to commercialize our products to the extent necessary to sustain and grow our current business. to commercialize our products, we must be successful in using our yeast strains to produce target molecules at commercial scale and at a commercially viable cost. if we cannot achieve commercially-viable production economics for enough products to support our business plan, including through establishing and maintaining sufficient production scale and volume, we will be unable to achieve a sustainable integrated renewable products business. virtually all of our production capacity is through a purpose-built, large-scale production plant in brotas, brazil. this plant commenced operations in 2013, and scaling and running the plant has been, and continues to be, a time-consuming, costly, uncertain and expensive process. given our limited experience commissioning and operating our own manufacturing facilities and our limited financial resources, we cannot be sure that we will be successful achieving production economics that allow us to meet our plans for commercialization of various products we intend to offer. in addition, to date we have only produced biofene at the brotas plant. our attempts to scale production of new molecules at the plant is subject to uncertainty and risk. for example, even to the extent we successfully complete product development in our laboratories and pilot and demonstration facilities, and at contract manufacturing facilities, we may be unable to translate such success to large-scale, purpose-built plants. if this occurs, our ability to commercialize our technology will be adversely affected and we may be unable to produce and sell any significant volumes of our products. also, with respect to products that we are able to bring to market, we may not be able to lower the cost of production, which would adversely affect our ability to sell such products profitably. we will require significant inflows of cash from financing and collaboration transactions to fund our anticipated operations and may not be able to obtain such financing and collaboration funding on favorable terms, if at all. our planned 2014 and 2015 working capital needs and our planned operating and capital expenditures for 2014 and 2015 are dependent on significant inflows of cash from existing and new collaboration partners and cash contribution from growth in renewable product sales, as well as additional funding from new joint ventures or other collaborations, and may also require additional funding from equity financings, credit facilities or loans, especially to the extent that we are unable to ramp up positive gross margin product sales or close on sufficient funding from existing and new collaboration partners. we will continue to need to fund our research and development and related activities and to provide working capital to fund production, storage, distribution and other aspects of its business. some of our existing anticipated financing sources, such as research and development collaborations, are subject to the risk that we cannot meet milestones or are not yet subject to definitive agreements or mandatory funding commitments and, if needed, we may not be able to secure additional types of financing in a timely manner or on reasonable terms, if at all.  12 in 2013, we completed several equity and convertible debt financings to provide us with cash resources to pursue our business plans. in august 2013, we entered into an agreement with total and maxwell (mauritius) pte ltd, (or temasek), to sell up to $73.0 million in convertible promissory notes in private placements over a period of up to 24 months from the date of signing (referred to as the august 2013 financing). the august 2013 financing was divided into two tranches (one for $42.6 million and one for $30.4 million), each with differing closing conditions. of the total possible purchase price in the financing, $60.0 million was to be paid in the form of cash by temasek ($35.0 million in the first tranche and up to $25.0 million in the second tranche) and $13.0 million was to be paid by cancellation of outstanding convertible promissory notes held by total in connection with its exercise of pro rata rights ($7.6 million in the first tranche and $5.4 million in the second tranche). in october 2013, the company amended the agreement for the august 2013 financing to include entities affiliated with fmr llc (referred to as the fidelity entities) as additional investors for the first tranche in the principal amount of $7.6 million, and to proportionally increase the amount acquired by exchange and cancellation of outstanding convertible promissory notes held by total to $14.6 million ($9.2 million in the first tranche and up to $5.4 million in the second tranche). prior to the closing of the first tranche of the august financing, temasek advanced $35.0 million of financing through the purchase of a senior bridge note (referred to as the temasek bridge note) due at the first closing. also in october 2013, we completed the initial closing of the first tranche of the august 2013 financing, issuing a total of $51.8 million in convertible promissory notes for cash proceeds of $7.6 million and cancellation of outstanding promissory notes and convertible promissory notes of $44.2 million, of which $35.0 million resulted from the cancellation of the temasek bridge note. in december 2013, we agreed to sell an additional $3.0 million of senior convertible notes in the second tranche of the august 2013 financing to funds affiliated with wolverine asset management (or wolverine) and we elected to call $25.0 million in additional funds from temasek pursuant to its previous commitment to purchase such amount of convertible promissory notes in the second tranche. additionally, in december 2013, we agreed to sell approximately $6.0 million of convertible promissory notes in the second tranche to total through cancellation of the same amount of principal of previously outstanding convertible notes held by total (in respect of total’s preexisting contractual right to maintain its pro rata ownership position through such cancellation of indebtedness). in january 2014, we completed the offering of such convertible promissory notes in the second tranche. the terms of the august 2013 financing include significant potential reductions in the conversion price for the notes if we do not meet certain performance milestones and other conditions. these conditions, if triggered, could result in further reductions to the conversion price that would cause significant additional dilution to our stockholders if the notes are ultimately converted. furthermore, if not converted, we may not have sufficient cash to repay the notes when they become due, which could result in insolvency and related issues. in addition, we were required to agree to significant covenants that have an impact on our ability to engage in certain transactions. for example, the purchase agreement for the august 2013 financing (referred to as the august 2013 spa) requires us to obtain the consent of a majority of the purchasers in the financing before completing any change-of-control transaction, or purchasing assets in one transaction or a series of related transactions in an amount greater than $20.0 million, in each case while the notes are outstanding. we also agreed to provide the purchasers with pro rata rights under which they could cancel up to the full amount of outstanding notes to pay for equity securities if we raise additional financing during the term of the notes, which could delay or prevent us from obtaining additional financing if the purchasers do not support it. to the extent we obtain funding through the issuance of additional equity securities, our existing stockholders will suffer dilution. for example, in 2013, we completed private placements of our common stock that resulted in the issuance of approximately 6.6 million shares of our common stock. also, in 2013, including the august 2013 financing and research and development-related funding, we issued approximately $72.6 million in senior convertible promissory notes that are convertible into common stock. in june 2013 and july 2013 we issued an aggregate $30.0 million of convertible promissory notes with a conversion price of $3.08 per share pursuant to our arrangement with total for research an development-related funding. in october 2013, we issued $51.8 million in convertible promissory notes that are convertible into common stock at an initial conversion price of $2.44, and in december 2013, we agreed to issue approximately $34.0 million in convertible promissory notes that are convertible into common stock at an initial conversion price of $2.87, each as part of the august financing. the placement of $34.0 million of senior unsecured convertible notes closed in january 2014. through 2015, we may issue up to an aggregate of $21.7 million in additional unsecured senior convertible promissory notes, with a conversion price of $7.0682 per share, under the agreements with total described below under the risk factor, “our relationship with our strategic partner, total, may have a substantial impact on our company.” furthermore, under the convertible note financing approved by the stockholders of the company in september 2013, we may issue up to an additional $3.2 million in convertible promissory notes at an initial conversion price of $2.44, and up to an additional $20.96 million in convertible promissory notes at a conversion price of $2.87. in addition, in connection with the initial closing of the august 2013 financing, we issued a warrant to temasek to purchase 1,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.01 per share, exercisable only if total converts certain preexisting convertible promissory notes. in addition to dilution, to the extent we issue convertible promissory notes and similar instruments, we would become subject to various covenants, including restrictions on our business, that could cause us to be at risk of defaults. for example, the convertible notes we issued in 2012, 2013 and early 2014 contain various covenants, including restrictions on the amount of debt we are permitted to incur, a loan and security agreement we entered into in march 2014 included covenants regarding fund raising, cash  13 flows and revenues, and the convertible notes or other debt we may issue in connection with future debt financings could contain similar covenants. in addition to debt and equity financing, we depend on collaboration funding to support our operating expenses. while part of this funding is committed based on existing collaboration agreements, our 2014 business plan depends on identifying and obtaining funding under additional collaborations that are not yet subject to any definitive agreement or are not yet identified. in addition, some of our existing anticipated collaboration funding is subject to our achievement of milestones or other funding conditions. if we cannot secure sufficient collaboration funding to support our operating expenses in excess of cash contributions from product sales and existing debt and equity financing, in order to raise sufficient funds to finance our ongoing operations, we may need to issue additional preferred and discounted equity, agree to onerous covenants, grant further security interests in our assets, enter into collaboration and licensing arrangements that require us to relinquish commercial rights or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us, or any or all of these possibilities. if we fail to secure such funding, we could be forced to curtail our operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue with our business plans and on our status as a going concern. if we are unable to raise additional financing, or if other expected sources of funding are delayed or not received, we would take the following actions as early as the second quarter of 2014 to support our liquidity needs through the remainder of 2014 and into 2015: • effect significant headcount reductions in the united states and in brazil, particularly with respect to both general and administrative employees and other employees not connected to critical or contracted activities. • shift our focus to existing products and customers with significantly reduced investment in new product and commercial development efforts. • reduce our expenditures for third party contractors, including consultants, professional advisors and other vendors. • suspend operations at our pilot plants and demonstration facilities. • reduce or delay uncommitted capital expenditures, including non-essential lab equipment and information technology projects. the contingency cash plan contemplating these actions is designed to save an estimated $25.0 million to $35.0 million over the next twelve months. implementing this plan could have a material negative impact on our ability to continue our business as currently contemplated, including, without limitation, delays or failures in its ability to: • achieve planned production levels; • develop and commercialize products within planned timelines or at planned scales; and • continue other core activities. furthermore, any inability to scale-back operations as necessary, and any unexpected liquidity needs, could create pressure to implement more severe measures. such measures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet contractual requirements, including obligations to maintain manufacturing operations, and increase the severity of the consequences described above. if our major production facilities do not successfully commence or scale up operations, our customer relationships, business and results of operations may be adversely affected. a substantial component of our planned production capacity in the near and long term depends on successful operations at our initial and planned large-scale production plants in brazil. we are in the early stages of operating our first purpose-built, large-scale production plant in brotas, brazil and may complete construction of certain other facilities in the coming years. delays or problems in the construction, start-up or operation of these facilities will cause delays in our ramp-up of production and hamper our ability to reduce our production costs. delays in construction can occur due to a variety of factors, including regulatory requirements and our ability to fund construction and commissioning costs. once our large-scale production facilities are built, we must successfully commission them and they must perform as we have designed them. if we encounter significant delays, cost overruns, engineering issues, contamination problems, equipment or raw material supply constraints, unexpected equipment  14 maintenance requirements, safety issues, work stoppage or other serious challenges in bringing these facilities online and operating them at commercial scale, we may be unable to produce our initial renewable products in the time frame we have planned. for example, we are planning to start using our plant at brotas to produce molecules beyond biofene. to date, we have only produced biofene at the plant. in order to produce additional molecules at brotas, we are required to perform thorough transition activities, and modify the design of the plant. any modifications to the production plant could cause complications in the start-up and operations of the plant, which could result in delays or failures in production. we may also need to continue to use contract manufacturing sources more than we expect (e.g., if the modifications to the brotas plant are not successful or have a negative impact on the plant's operations), which would reduce our anticipated gross margins and may prevent us from accessing certain markets for our products. further, if our efforts to increase (or complete and commence, as the case may be) production at these facilities are not successful, other mill owners in brazil or elsewhere may decide not to work with us to develop additional production facilities, demand more favorable terms or delay their commitment to invest capital in our production. our reliance on the large-scale production plant in brotas, brazil subjects us to execution and economic risks. our decision to focus our efforts for production capacity on the manufacturing facility in brotas, brazil means that we will have limited manufacturing sources for our products in 2014 and beyond. accordingly, any failure to establish operations at that plant could have a significant negative impact on our business, including our ability to achieve commercial viability for our products. with the facility in brotas, brazil, we are, for the first time, operating a commercial fermentation and separation facility. we are inexperienced at operating plants and may face unexpected difficulties associated with the operation of the plant. for example, we have in the past, at certain contract manufacturing facilities, encountered significant delays and difficulties in ramping up production based on contamination in the production process, problems with plant utilities, lack of automation and related human error, issues arising from process modifications to reduce costs and adjust product specifications, and other similar challenges. such challenges could arise in our plant in brotas, brazil, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to remedy them quickly or effectively enough to achieve commercially viable near-term production costs and volumes. as part of our arrangement to build the plant in brotas, brazil we have an agreement with paraíso bioenergia to purchase from paraíso bioenergia sugarcane juice corresponding to a certain number of tons of sugarcane per year, along with specified water and vapor volumes. until this annual volume is reached, we are restricted from purchasing sugarcane juice for processing in the facility from any third party, subject to limited exceptions, unless we pay the premium to paraíso bioenergia that we would have paid if we bought the juice from them. as such, we will be relying on paraíso bioenergia to supply such juice and utilities on a timely basis, in the volumes we need, and at competitive prices. if a third party can offer superior prices and paraíso bioenergia does not consent to our purchasing from such third party, we would be required to pay paraíso bioenergia the applicable premium, which would have a negative impact on our production cost. furthermore, we agreed to pay a price for the juice that is based on the lower of the cost of two other products produced by paraíso bioenergia using such juice, plus a premium. paraíso bioenergia may not want to sell sugarcane juice to us if the price of one of the other products is substantially higher than the one setting the price for the juice we purchase. while the agreement provides that paraíso bioenergia would have to pay a penalty to us if it fails to supply the agreed-upon volume of juice for a given month, the penalty may not be enough to compensate us for the increased cost if third-party suppliers do not offer competitive prices. also, if the prices of the other products produced by paraíso bioenergia increase, we could be forced to pay those increased prices for production without a related increase in the price at which we can sell our products, reducing or eliminating any margins we can otherwise achieve. if in the future these supply terms no longer provide a viable economic structure for the operation in brotas, brazil we may be required to renegotiate our agreement, which could result in manufacturing disruptions and delays. furthermore, as we continue to scale up production of our products, both through contract manufacturers and at our large-scale production plant in brotas, brazil, we may be required to store increasing amounts of our products for varying periods of time and under differing temperatures or other conditions that cannot be easily controlled, which may lead to a decrease in the quality of our products and their utility profiles and could adversely affect their value. if our stored products degrade in quality, we may suffer losses in inventory and incur additional costs in order to further refine our stored products or we may need to make new capital investments in shipping, improved storage or sales channels and related logistics. our joint venture with são martinho s.a. subjects us to certain legal and financial terms that could adversely affect us. we have various agreements with smsa that contemplate construction of another large-scale manufacturing facility as a joint venture in brazil. under these agreements, we are responsible for designing and managing the construction project, and are responsible for the initial construction costs. we projected the construction costs of the project to be approximately $100.0 million. while we completed a significant portion of the construction of the plant before 2012, we delayed further construction and commissioning of the plant while we constructed and commissioned our production plant in brotas, brazil and we expect to continue to defer the sma project for the near term based on economic considerations and to allow us to focus on operations at our production plant in brotas, brazil. we entered into an amendment to the joint venture agreement with smsa in february 2014  15 which updates and documents certain preexisting business plan requirements related to the start-up of construction at the plant and sets forth, among other things, (i) the extension of the deadline for the commencement of operations at the joint venture operated plant to no later than 18 months following the construction of the plant, which shall occur no later than march 31, 2017, and (ii) the extension of an option held by smsa to build a second large-scale farnesene production facility to no later than december 31, 2018 with the commencement of operations at such second facility to occur no later than april 1, 2019. while smsa was obligated to contribute up to approximately r$61.8 million (approximately us$26.4 million based on the exchange rate as of december 31, 2013) to the construction of the original plant, such contributions depended on, among other things, successful commencement of operations at the plant. notwithstanding the february 2014 amendment to the joint venture agreement, based on our shifting manufacturing priorities and uncertainty regarding financing availability, we cannot currently predict exactly when or if our facility at smsa will be completed or commence commercial operations, which means that smsa's anticipated contribution will continue to be delayed and may never occur. smsa holds rights with respect to the termination and acquisition of our interests in sma. for instance, if amyris brasil becomes controlled, directly or indirectly, by a competitor of smsa, then smsa has the right to acquire our interest in the joint venture and if smsa becomes controlled, directly or indirectly, by a competitor of ours, then we have the right to sell our interest in the joint venture to smsa. in either case, the purchase price is to be determined in accordance with the joint venture agreements, as amended, and we would continue to have the obligation to acquire products produced by the joint venture for the remainder of the term of the supply agreement then in effect even though we might no longer be involved in the joint venture's management. if we are ultimately successful in establishing the plant at smsa, the agreements governing the joint venture subject us to terms that may not be favorable to us under certain conditions. for example, we are required to purchase the output of the joint venture for the first four years at a price that guarantees the return of smsa's investment plus a fixed surcharge rate. we may not be able to sell the output at a price that allows us to achieve anticipated, or any, level of profitability on the product we acquire under these terms. similarly, the return that we are required to provide the joint venture for products after the first four years may have an adverse effect on the profitability we achieve from acquiring the mill's output. additionally, we are required to purchase the output of the joint venture regardless of whether we have a customer for such output, and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected if we are unable to sell the output that we are required to purchase. loss or termination of contract manufacturing relationships could harm our ability to meet our production goals. as we have focused on building and commissioning our own plant and improving our production economics, we have reduced our use of contract manufacturing and have terminated relationships with some of our contract manufacturing partners. the failure to have multiple available supply options for farnesene could create a risk for us if a single source or a limited number of sources of manufacturing runs into operational issues. in addition, if we are unable to secure the services of contract manufacturers when and as needed, we may lose customer opportunities and the growth of our business may be impaired. we cannot be sure that contract manufacturers will be available when we need their services, that they will be willing to dedicate a portion of their capacity to our projects, or that we will be able to reach acceptable price and other terms with them for the provision of their production services. if we shift priorities and adjust anticipated production levels (or cease production altogether) at contract manufacturing facilities, such adjustments or cessations could also result in disputes or otherwise harm our business relationships with contract manufacturers. in addition, reducing or stopping production at one facility while increasing or starting up production at another facility generally results in significant losses of production efficiency, which can persist for significant periods of time. also, in order for production to commence under our contract manufacturing arrangements, we generally must provide equipment, and we cannot be assured that such equipment can be ordered or installed on a timely basis, at acceptable costs, or at all. further, in order to establish new manufacturing facilities, we need to transfer our yeast strains and production processes from lab to commercial plants controlled by third parties, which may pose technical or operational challenges that delay production or increase our costs. our use of contract manufacturers exposes us to risks relating to costs, contractual terms and logistics . while we have commenced commercial production at the brotas, brazil plant, we continue to commercially produce, process and manufacture some specialty molecules through the use of contract manufacturers, and we anticipate that we will continue to use contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future for chemical conversion and production of end-products and, to mitigate cost and volume risks at our large-scale production facilities, for production of biofene and other fermentation target compounds. establishing and operating contract manufacturing facilities requires us to make significant capital expenditures, which reduces our cash and places such capital at risk. for example, based on an evaluation of our assets associated with contract manufacturing facilities and anticipated levels of use of such facilities, we recorded a loss on purchase commitments and write off of production assets of approximately $9.4 million in the year ended december 31, 2013. also, contract manufacturing agreements contain terms that commit us to pay for capital expenditures and other costs incurred or expected to be earned by the plant operators and owners, which can result in contractual liability and losses for us even if we terminate a particular contract manufacturing arrangement or decide to reduce or stop production under such an arrangement. for example, in june 2013, we entered into a termination agreement  16 with a contract manufacturer that required us to make payments totaling $8.8 million in 2013, of which $3.6 million was to satisfy outstanding obligations and $5.2 million was in lieu of additional payments otherwise owed. the locations of contract manufacturers can pose additional cost, logistics and feedstock challenges. if production capacity is available at a plant that is remote from usable chemical finishing or distribution facilities, or from customers, we will be required to incur additional expenses in shipping products to other locations. such costs could include shipping costs, compliance with export and import controls, tariffs and additional taxes, among others. in addition, we may be required to use feedstock from a particular region for a given production facility. the feedstock available in a particular region may not be the least expensive or most effective feedstock for production, which could significantly raise our overall production cost o reduce our product's quality until we are able to optimize the supply chain. if we are unable to reduce our production costs, we may not be able to produce our products at competitive prices and our ability to grow our business will be limited. currently, our costs of production are not low enough to allow us to offer many of our planned products at competitive prices relative to alternatives available in the market. our production costs depend on many factors that could have a negative effect on our ability to offer our planned products at competitive prices, including, in particular, our ability to establish and maintain sufficient production scale and volume, and feedstock cost. for example, see "we have limited experience producing our products and commercial scale and may not be able to commercialize our products to the extent necessary to sustain and grow our current business," "our manufacturing operations require sugar feedstock, and the ability to obtain such feedstock in sufficient quantities or in a timely manner, or at reasonable prices, may limit our ability to produce products profitably or at all," and "the price of sugarcane and other feedstocks can be volatile as a result of changes in industry policy and may increase the cost of production of our products." we face financial risk associated with scaling up production to reduce our production costs. to reduce per-unit production costs, we must increase production to achieve economies of scale and to be able to sell our products with positive margins. however, if we do not sell production output in a timely manner or in sufficient volumes, our investment in production will harm our cash position and generate losses. additionally, we may incur added costs in storage and we may face issues related to the decrease in quality of our stored products, which could adversely affect the value of such products. since achieving competitive product prices generally requires increased production volumes and our manufacturing operations and cash flows from sales are in their early stages, we have had to produce and sell products at a loss in the past, and expect to continue to do so as we build our business. if we are unable to achieve adequate revenues from a combination of product sales and other sources, we may not be able to invest in production and we may not be able to pursue our business plans. key factors beyond production scale and feedstock cost that impact our production costs include yield, productivity, separation efficiency and chemical process efficiency. yield refers to the amount of the desired molecule that can be produced from a fixed amount of feedstock. productivity represents the rate at which our product is produced by a given yeast strain. separation efficiency refers to the amount of desired product produced in the fermentation process that we are able to extract and the time that it takes to do so. chemical process efficiency refers to the cost and yield for the chemical finishing steps that convert our target molecule into a desired product. in order to successfully enter transportation fuels and certain chemical markets, we must produce those products at significantly lower costs, which will require both substantially higher yields than we have achieved to date and other significant improvements in production efficiency, including in productivity and in separation and chemical process efficiencies. there can be no assurance that we will be able to make these improvements or reduce our production costs sufficiently to offer our planned products at competitive prices, and any such failure could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects.  17 our ability to establish substantial commercial sales of our products is subject to many risks, any of which could prevent or delay revenue growth and adversely impact our customer relationships, business and results of operations. there can be no assurance that our products will be approved or accepted by customers, that customers will choose our products over competing products, or that we will be able to sell our products profitably at prices and with features sufficient to establish demand. the markets we have entered first are primarily those for specialty chemical products used by large consumer products or specialty chemical companies. in entering these markets, we have sold and we intend to sell our products as alternatives to chemicals currently in use, and in some cases the chemicals that we seek to replace have been used for many years. the potential customers for our molecules generally have well developed manufacturing processes and arrangements with suppliers of the chemical components of their products and may have a resistance to changing these processes and components. these potential customers frequently impose lengthy and complex product qualification procedures on their suppliers, influenced by consumer preference, manufacturing considerations such as process changes and capital and other costs associated with transitioning to alternative components, supplier operating history, established business relationships, regulatory issues, product liability and other factors, many of which are unknown to, or not well understood by, us. satisfying these processes may take many months or years. if we are unable to convince these potential customers (and the consumers who purchase products containing such chemicals) that our products are comparable to the chemicals that they currently use or that the use of our products is otherwise to their benefits, we will not be successful in entering these markets and our business will be adversely affected. in order for our diesel fuel or jet fuel to be accepted in various countries around the world, a significant number of diesel engine and jet engine manufacturers or operators of large trucking or jet fleets, as the case may be, must determine that the use of our fuels in their equipment will not invalidate product warranties and that they otherwise regard our diesel fuel or jet fuel as an acceptable fuel so that our diesel will have an appropriately large and accessible addressable market. in addition, we must successfully demonstrate to these manufacturers that our fuel does not degrade the performance or reduce the life cycle of their engines or cause them to fail to meet applicable emissions standards. these certification processes include fuel analysis modeling and the testing of engines and their components to ensure that the use of our diesel fuel or jet fuel does not degrade performance or reduce the lifecycle of the engine or cause them to fail to meet applicable emissions standards. additionally, we may be subject to product safety testing and may be required to meet certain product safety standards. meeting these suitability or safety standards can be a time consuming and expensive process, and we may invest substantial time and resources into such qualification efforts without ultimately securing approval. to date, our diesel fuel has achieved limited approvals from certain engine manufacturers, but we cannot be assured that other engine or vehicle manufacturers or fleet operators, will approve usage of our fuels. to distribute our diesel fuel, we must also meet requirements imposed by pipeline operators and fuel distributors. if these operators impose volume limitations on the transport of our fuels, our ability to sell our fuels may be impaired. our ability to sell a jet fuel product is subject to similar types of qualification requirements as diesel (although the jet fuel qualification process is generally more rigorous, time consuming and expensive than for diesel). our ability to enter the fuels market is also dependent upon our ability to continue to achieve the required regulatory approvals in the global markets in which we will seek to sell our fuel products. these approvals primarily involve clearance by the relevant environmental agencies in the particular jurisdiction and are described below under the risk factors, "our use of genetically-modified feedstocks and yeast strains to produce our products subjects us to risks of regulatory limitations and rejection of our products," "we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our renewable products," and "we may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities."   we expect to face competition for our specialty chemical and transportation fuels products from providers of petroleum-based products and from other companies seeking to provide alternatives to these products, and if we cannot compete effectively against these companies or products we may not be successful in bringing our products to market or further growing our business after we do so. we expect that our renewable products will compete with both the traditional, largely petroleum-based specialty chemical and fuels products that are currently being used in our target markets and with the alternatives to these existing products that established enterprises and new companies are seeking to produce. in the specialty chemical markets that we are initially seeking to enter, and in other chemical markets that we may seek to enter in the future, we will compete primarily with the established providers of chemicals currently used in products in these markets. producers of these incumbent products include global oil companies, large international chemical companies and companies specializing in specific products, such as squalane or essential oils. we may also compete in one or more of these markets with products that are offered as alternatives to the traditional petroleum-based or other traditional products being offered in these markets.  18 in the transportation fuels market, we expect to compete with independent and integrated oil refiners, advanced biofuels companies and biodiesel companies. refiners compete with us by selling traditional fuel products and some are also pursuing hydrocarbon fuel production using non-renewable feedstocks, such as natural gas and coal, as well as processes using renewable feedstocks, such as vegetable oil and biomass. we also expect to compete with companies that are developing the capacity to produce diesel and other transportation fuels from renewable resources in other ways. these include advanced biofuels companies using specific enzymes that they have developed to convert cellulosic biomass, which is non-food plant material such as wood chips, corn stalks and sugarcane bagasse, into fermentable sugars. similar to us, some companies are seeking to use engineered enzymes to convert sugars, in some cases from cellulosic biomass and in others from natural sugar sources, into renewable diesel and other fuels. biodiesel companies convert vegetable oils and animal oils into diesel fuel and some are seeking to produce diesel and other transportation fuels using thermochemical methods to convert biomass into renewable fuels. with the emergence of many new companies seeking to produce chemicals and fuels from alternative sources, we may face increasing competition from alternative fuels and chemicals companies. as they emerge, some of these companies may be able to establish production capacity and commercial partnerships to compete with us. if we are unable to establish production and sales channels that allow us to offer comparable products at attractive prices, we may not be able to compete effectively with these companies. we believe the primary competitive factors in both the chemicals and fuels markets are: • product price; • product performance and other measures of quality; • infrastructure compatibility of products; • sustainability; and • dependability of supply. the oil companies, large chemical companies and well-established agricultural products companies with whom we compete are much larger than us, have, in many cases, well developed distribution systems and networks for their products, have valuable historical relationships with the potential customers we are seeking to serve and have much more extensive sales and marketing programs in place to promote their products. in order to be successful, we must convince customers that our products are at least as effective as the traditional products they are seeking to replace and we must provide our products on a cost-competitive basis with these traditional products and other available alternatives. some of our competitors may use their influence to impede the development and acceptance of renewable products of the type that we are seeking to produce. we believe that for our chemical products to succeed in the market, we must demonstrate that our products are comparable alternatives to existing products and to any alternative products that are being developed for the same markets based on some combination of product cost, availability, performance, and consumer preference characteristics. with respect to our diesel and other transportation fuels products, we believe that our product must perform as effectively as petroleum-based fuel, or alternative fuels, and be available on a cost-competitive basis. in addition, with the wide range of renewable fuels products under development, we must be successful in reaching potential customers and convincing them that ours are effective and reliable alternatives. our relationship with our strategic partner, total, has a substantial impact on our company. we have a license, development, research and collaboration agreement with total, under which we may develop, produce and commercialize products with total. under this agreement, total has a right of first negotiation with us with respect to exclusive commercialization arrangements that we would propose to enter into with third parties, as well as the right to purchase any of our products on terms not less favorable than those offered to or received by us from third parties in any market where total or its affiliates have a significant market position. these rights might inhibit potential strategic partners or potential customers from entering into negotiations with us about future business opportunities. total also has the right to terminate this agreement if we undergo a sale or change of control to certain entities, which could discourage a potential acquirer from making an offer to acquire us. in other agreements with total related to their original investment in our capital stock, for as long as total owns 10% of our voting securities, it has rights to an exclusive negotiation period if our board of directors decides to sell our company. total also has the right to designate one director to serve on our board of directors. also, in connection with total’s investments, our certificate  19 of incorporation includes a provision that excludes total from prohibitions on business combinations between amyris and an “interested stockholder.” these provisions could have the effect of discouraging potential acquirers from making offers to acquire us, and give total more access to the company than other stockholders if total decides to pursue an acquisition. additionally, in connection with subsequent investments by total, we granted total, among other investors, a right of first investment if we propose to sell securities in a private placement financing transaction. with these rights, total and other investors may subscribe for a portion of any new financing and require us to comply with certain notice periods, which could discourage other investors from participating, or cause delays, in our ability to close such a financing. until june 30, 2014, total also has a right to cancel up to approximately $9.8 million in convertible promissory notes previously issued to total to exercise certain pro rata rights. to the extent total exercises this right, it will reduce the cash proceeds we may realize from the relevant financing. under agreements signed in july 2012, total previously had the right to cancel up to $30.0 million of such convertible promissory notes, but has since, in financings that closed in december 2012, october 2013, december 2013 and january 2014, used approximately $20.2 million of such $30.0 million. our joint venture with total limits our ability to independently develop and commercialize biofene-based diesel and jet fuels. in july 2012 and december 2013, we entered into a series of agreements to establish a research and development program and form a joint venture to produce and commercialize biofene-based diesel and jet fuels. with an exception for our fuels business in brazil, the collaboration and joint venture establish the exclusive means for us to develop, produce and commercialize fuels from biofene. we granted the joint venture exclusive licenses under certain of our intellectual property to make and sell joint venture products. we also granted the joint venture, in the event of a buy-out of our interest in the joint venture by total (which total is entitled to do under certain circumstances described below) a non-exclusive license to optimize or engineer yeast strains used by us to produce farnesene for the joint venture’s diesel and jet fuels. as a result of these licenses, amyris generally no longer has an independent right to make or sell biofene fuels outside of brazil. if, for any reason, the joint venture is not fully supported or is not successful and the joint venture does not allow us to pursue biofene-based fuels independently, this joint venture arrangement could impair our ability to develop and commercialize such fuels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and long term prospects. for example, these arrangements could adversely affect our ability to enter or expand in these markets on terms that would otherwise be more favorable to us independently or with third parties. in addition to granting the joint venture exclusive licenses, we also agreed that, if we encounter certain financial hardship situations, such as bankruptcy, insolvency and debt defaults, or upon a change of control of amyris, total has a right to buy out our interest in the joint venture at fair market value. the agreements also provide total with a right to buy out our interest in the joint venture in the event of a “deadlock” in negotiating agreements to establish an operational fuels joint venture following a decision to proceed with the next phase of the joint venture. in a situation where total buys out our interest in the joint venture, it also has rights to buy our brazil fuels business at fair market value. if total were to exercise these rights, we would, in effect, relinquish rights to intellectual property exclusively licensed to the joint venture, and our ability to seek future revenue from biofene in the fuels market would be adversely affected (or completely prevented). this could significantly reduce the value of our product offerings, and have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business in future years. total’s collaboration funding is in the form of convertible promissory notes. our agreements with total relating to our fuels collaboration created a convertible debt financing structure for funding the research and development program. the collaboration agreements contemplated approximately $105.0 million in financing for the collaboration, of which total has funded $83.3 million to date. total is expected to fund up to the remaining $21.7 million, with $10.85 million to be paid by july 2014 and $10.85 million to be paid by january 2015. if total chooses not to continue participating at certain "go/no-go" decision points during the program, licenses to our technology would terminate, and the notes would remain outstanding and become payable at maturity unless otherwise converted in accordance with their terms. if total chooses to continue the collaboration and makes a final decision to proceed with the operational fuels joint venture, total is required to buy from amyris 50% of the preferred shares (all of which are currently held by amyris) of a related joint venture in exchange for full settlement of principal and interest outstanding under the notes. if total chooses to continue the collaboration and makes a final decision to proceed with the joint venture only for jet fuel, total is required to buy from amyris 50% of the preferred shares of the joint venture in exchanges for the settlement of 30% of the principal and interest outstanding under the notes. the remaining notes would continue to be outstanding and payable upon maturity unless otherwise converted in accordance with the terms of the notes. we cannot be certain that total will choose to continue funding the program or ultimately opt to participate in an operational fuels joint venture. if total were to decide not to participate further in the collaboration or not to proceed with the operational fuels joint venture, it would not be obligated to fund any further amounts (which would reduce our anticipated near-term collaboration revenues), and, as noted above, the outstanding notes representing amounts paid by total to date would remain outstanding and  20 become payable or convertible into our common stock. if total chooses to demand repayment of amounts funded under the notes following such a decision (or a portion of such notes based on a jet fuel-only decision), we may not be able to satisfy our obligations to repay the notes by the maturity date in march 2017, which could lead to defaults and our insolvency, and total and other creditors could pursue collections claims against us. if the notes become convertible and total chooses to convert them, the resulting issuance of common stock would be dilutive to other stockholders. if we do not meet technical, development and commercial milestones in our collaboration agreements, our future revenue and financial results will be adversely impacted. we have entered into a number of agreements regarding the further development of certain of our products and, in some cases, for ultimate sale of certain products to the customer under the agreement. none of these agreements affirmatively obligates the other party to purchase specific quantities of any products at this time, and most contain important conditions that must be satisfied before additional research and development funding or product purchases would occur. these conditions include research and development milestones and technical specifications that must be achieved to the satisfaction of our collaborators, which we cannot be certain we will achieve. if we do not achieve these contractual milestones, our revenues and financial results will be adversely affected. we are subject to risks related to our reliance on collaboration arrangements to fund development and commercialization of our products. for most product markets we are trying to address, we either have or are seeking collaboration partners to fund the research and development, commercialization and production efforts required for the target products. typically we provide limited exclusive rights and revenue sharing with respect to the production and sale of particular types of products in specific markets in exchange for such up-front funding. these exclusivity, revenue-sharing and other similar terms limit our ability to commercialize our products and technology, and may impact the size of our business or our profitability in ways that we do not currently envision. in addition, revenues from these types of relationships are a key part of our cash plan for 2014 and beyond. if we fail to collect expected collaboration revenues, or to identify and add sufficient additional collaborations to fund our planned operations, we may be unable to fund our operations or pursue development and commercialization of our planned products. to achieve our collaboration revenue targets from year to year, we may be forced to enter into agreements that contain less favorable terms, including broader exclusivity provisions for commercial partners and a smaller financial stake in any successful ventures resulting from collaborations. our manufacturing operations require sugar feedstock, and the inability to obtain such feedstock in sufficient quantities or in a timely manner, or at reasonable prices, may limit our ability to produce our products profitably, or at all. we anticipate that the production of our products will require large volumes of feedstock. we have relied on a mixture of feedstock sources for use at our contract manufacturing operations, including cane sugar, corn-based dextrose and beet molasses. for our large-scale production facilities in brazil, we are relying primarily on brazilian sugarcane. we cannot predict the future availability or price of these various feedstocks, nor can we be sure that our mill partners, which we expect to supply the sugarcane feedstock necessary to produce our products in brazil, will be able to supply it in sufficient quantities or in a timely manner. furthermore, to the extent we are required to rely on sugar feedstock other than brazilian sugarcane, the cost of such feedstock may be higher than we expect, increasing our anticipated production costs. feedstock crop yields and sugar content depend on weather conditions, such as rainfall and temperature. weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the ethanol and sugar industries by causing crop failures or reduced harvests. excessive rainfall can adversely affect the supply of sugarcane and other sugar feedstock available for the production of our products by reducing the sucrose content and limiting growers' ability to harvest. crop disease and pestilence can also occur from time to time and can adversely affect feedstock growth, potentially rendering useless or unusable all or a substantial portion of affected harvests. with respect to sugarcane, our initial primary feedstock, seasonal availability and price, the limited amount of time during which it keeps its sugar content after harvest, and the fact that sugarcane is not itself a traded commodity, increases these risks and limits our ability to substitute supply in the event of such an occurrence. if production of sugarcane or any other feedstock we may use to produce our products is adversely affected by these or other conditions, our production will be impaired, and our business will be adversely affected. the price of sugarcane and other feedstocks can be volatile as a result of changes in industry policy and may increase the cost of production of our products. in brazil, conselho dos produtores de cana, açúcar e álcool (council of sugarcane, sugar and ethanol producers), or consecana, an industry association of producers of sugarcane, sugar and ethanol, sets market terms and prices for general supply, lease and partnership agreements for sugarcane. if consecana makes changes to such terms and prices, this could result in higher sugarcane prices and/or a significant decrease in the volume of sugarcane available for the production of our products. furthermore,  21 if consecana were to cease to be involved in this process, such prices and terms could become more volatile. similar principles apply to pricing of other feedstocks as well. any of these events could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our large-scale commercial production capacity is centered in brazil, and our business will be adversely affected if we do not operate effectively in that country. for the foreseeable future, we will be subject to risks associated with the concentration of essential product sourcing and operations in brazil. the brazilian government has changed in the past, and may change in the future, monetary, taxation, credit, tariff and other policies to influence the course of brazil's economy. for example, the government's actions to control inflation have at times involved setting wage and price controls, adjusting interest rates, imposing taxes and exchange controls and limiting imports into brazil. we have no control over, and cannot predict, what policies or actions the brazilian government may take in the future. our business, financial performance and prospects may be adversely affected by, among others, the following factors: • delays or failures in securing licenses, permits or other governmental approvals necessary to build and operate facilities and use our yeast strains to produce products; • rapid consolidation in the sugar and ethanol industries in brazil, which could result in a decrease in competition; • political, economic, diplomatic or social instability in or affecting brazil; • changing interest rates; • tax burden and policies; • effects of changes in currency exchange rates; • exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad; • inflation; • land reform movements; • changes in labor related policies; • export or import restrictions that limit our ability to move our products out of brazil or interfere with the import of essential materials into brazil; • changes in, or interpretations of foreign regulations that may adversely affect our ability to sell our products or repatriate profits to the united states; • tariffs, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements; • successful compliance with united states and foreign laws that regulate the conduct of business abroad; • an inability, or reduced ability, to protect our intellectual property in brazil including any effect of compulsory licensing imposed by government action; and • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations.  we cannot predict whether the current or future brazilian government will implement changes to existing policies on taxation, exchange controls, monetary strategy, labor relations, social security and the like, nor can we estimate the impact of any such changes on the brazilian economy or our operations. our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuation in currency exchange rates and rates of foreign inflation, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we currently incur significant costs and expenses in brazilian real and may in the future incur additional expenses in foreign currencies and derive a portion of our revenues in the local currencies of customers throughout the world. as a result, our revenues and results of operations are subject to foreign exchange fluctuations, which we may not be able to manage successfully. during  22 the past few decades, the brazilian currency in particular has faced frequent and substantial exchange rate fluctuations in relation to the united states dollar and other foreign currencies. there can be no assurance that the brazilian real will not significantly appreciate or depreciate against the united states dollar in the future. we also bear the risk that the rate of inflation in the foreign countries where we incur costs and expenses or the decline in value of the united states dollar compared to those foreign currencies will increase our costs as expressed in united states dollars. for example, future measures by the central bank of brazil to control inflation, including interest rate adjustments, intervention in the foreign exchange market and actions to fix the value of the real, may weaken the united states dollar in brazil. whether in brazil or otherwise, we may not be able to adjust the prices of our products to offset the effects of inflation or foreign currency appreciation on our cost structure, which could increase our costs and reduce our net operating margins. if we do not successfully manage these risks through hedging or other mechanisms, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. our use of genetically-modified feedstocks and yeast strains to produce our products subjects us to risks of regulatory limitations and rejection of our products. the use of gmms, such as our yeast strains, is subject to laws and regulations in many countries, some of which are new and some of which are still evolving. public attitudes about the safety and environmental hazards of, and ethical concerns over, genetic research and gmms could influence public acceptance of our technology and products. in the united states, the epa, regulates the commercial use of gmms as well as potential products produced from the gmms. various states or local governments within the united states could choose to regulate products made with gmms as well. while the strain of genetically modified yeast that we currently use for the development and anticipate using for the commercial production of our target molecules, s. cerevisiae, is eligible for exemption from epa review because it is recognized as posing a low risk, we must satisfy certain criteria to achieve this exemption, including but not limited to use of compliant containment structures and safety procedures, and we cannot be sure that we will meet such criteria in a timely manner, or at all. if exemption of s. cerevisiae is not obtained, our business may be substantially harmed. in addition to s. cerevisiae, we may seek to use different gmms in the future that will require epa approval. if approval of different gmms is not secured, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. in brazil, gmms are regulated by ctnbio. we have obtained approval from ctnbio to use gmms in a contained environment in our campinas facilities for research and development purposes as well as at a contract manufacturing facility in brazil. in addition, we have obtained initial commercial approval from ctnbio for one of our current yeast strains. as we continue to develop new yeast strains and deploy our technology at new production facilities in brazil, we will be required to obtain further approvals from ctnbio in order to use these strains in commercial production in brazil. we may not be able to obtain approvals from relevant brazilian authorities on a timely basis, or at all, and if we do not, our ability to produce our products in brazil would be impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. in addition to our production operations in the united states and brazil, we have been party to contract manufacturing agreements with parties in other production locations around the world, including europe. the use of gmm technology is strictly regulated in the european union, which has established various directives for member states regarding regulation of the use of such technology, including notification processes for contained use of such technology. we expect to encounter gmm regulations in most, if not all, of the countries in which we may seek to establish production capabilities and/or conduct sales to customers or end-use consumers, and the scope and nature of these regulations will likely be different from country to country. if we cannot meet the applicable requirements in other countries in which we intend to produce products using our yeast strains, or if it takes longer than anticipated to obtain such approvals, our business could be adversely affected. we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our renewable products. our renewable chemical products may be subject to government regulation in our target markets. in the united states, the epa administers the tsca, which regulates the commercial registration, distribution, and use of many chemicals. before an entity can manufacture or distribute significant volumes of a chemical, it needs to determine whether that chemical is listed in the tsca inventory. if the substance is listed, then manufacture or distribution can commence immediately. if not, then in most cases a “chemical abstracts service” number registration and pre-manufacture notice must be filed with the epa, which has up to 180 days to review the filing. some of the products we produce or plan to produce, such as farnesene (i.e., biofene), farnesane (in diesel and new jet fuel applications) and squalane, are already in the tsca inventory. we may not be able to expediently receive approval from the epa to list future molecules we would like to make on the tsca registry, resulting in delays or significant increases in testing requirements. a similar program exists in the european union, called reach. under this program, we need to register our new products with the european commission, and this process could cause delays or significant costs. to the extent that other geographies, such as brazil, may rely on tsca or reach (or similar laws and programs) for chemical registration in their geographies, delays with the united states or european authorities may subsequently delay entry into these markets as well.  23 our diesel and jet fuel is subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the epa, carb and anp. to date, we have obtained registration with the epa for the use of our diesel fuel in the united states. at a 35% blend rate with petroleum diesel. in addition, anp has authorized the use our diesel fuel at blend rates of 10% and 30% for specific transportation fleets. in europe, we obtained reach registration for importing/manufacturing up to 1,000 metric tons of our diesel fuel per year and are pursuing data validation for greater volumes. registration with each of these bodies is required for the sale and use of our fuels within their respective jurisdictions. jet fuel (aviation turbine fuel) validation and specifications are subject to the astm international industry consensus process and the brazilian anp national adoption process.  our jet fuel must be validated and supported by an applicable astm aviation turbine fuel standard. any failure to achieve required validation and certifications for our jet fuel could impair or delay our plans to introduce a jet fuel product in 2014, which would have a material adverse impact on our renewable product revenues for the year. in addition, for us to achieve full access to the united states fuels market for our fuel products, we will need to obtain epa and carb (and potentially other state agencies) certifications for our feedstock pathway and production facilities, including certification of a feedstock lifecycle analysis relating to greenhouse gas emissions. any delay in obtaining these additional certifications could impair our ability to sell our renewable fuels to refiners, importers, blenders and other parties that produce transportation fuels as they comply with federal and state requirements to include certified renewable fuels in their products. we expect to encounter regulations in most, if not all, of the countries in which we may seek to sell our renewable chemical and fuel products (and our customers may encounter similar regulations in selling end use products o consumers), and we cannot assure you that we (or our customers) will be able to obtain necessary approvals in a timely manner or at all. if our chemical and fuel products do not meet applicable regulatory requirements in a particular country or at all, then we (or our customers) may not be able to commercialize our products and our business will be adversely affected.   changes in government regulations, including subsidies and economic incentives, could have a material adverse effect upon our business. the market for renewable fuels is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies. changes to existing or adoption of new domestic or foreign federal, state and local legislative initiatives that impact the production, distribution or sale of renewable fuels may harm our renewable fuels business. in the united states and in a number of other countries, regulations and policies encouraging production and use of alternative fuels have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future. any reduction in mandated requirements for fuel alternatives and additives to gasoline or diesel may cause demand for biofuels to decline and deter investment in the research and development of renewable fuels. the market uncertainty regarding this and future standards and policies may also affect our ability to develop new renewable products or to license our technologies to third parties and to sell products to our end customers. any inability to address these requirements and any regulatory or policy changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. concerns associated with renewable fuels, including land usage, national security interests and food crop usage, continue to receive legislative, industry and public attention. this attention could result in future legislation, regulation and/or administrative action that could adversely affect our business. any inability to address these requirements and any regulatory or policy changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, the production of our products will depend on the availability of feedstock, especially sugarcane. agricultural production and trade flows are subject to government policies and regulations. governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence the planting of certain crops, the location and size of crop production, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded, the volume and types of imports and exports, and the availability and competitiveness of feedstocks as raw materials. future government policies may adversely affect the supply of feedstocks, restrict our ability to use sugarcane or other feedstocks to produce our products, and negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations or could encourage the use of feedstocks more advantageous to our competitors which would put us at a commercial disadvantage.    24 we may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities. we use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business and such materials are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials both in the united states and overseas. although we have implemented safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials and related waste products in an effort to comply with these laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that our safety measures will prevent accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our insurance coverage. there can be no assurance that violations of environmental, health and safety laws will not occur in the future as a result of human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and the failure to comply with past, present, or future laws could result in the imposition of fines, third party property damage, product liability and personal injury claims, investigation and remediation costs, the suspension of production, or a cessation of operations, and our liability may exceed our total assets. liability under environmental laws can be joint and several, without regard to comparative fault and may be punitive in nature. environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could impair our research, development or production efforts and harm our business. a decline in the price of petroleum and petroleum-based products may reduce demand for many of our renewable products and may otherwise adversely affect our business. we anticipate that most of our renewable products, and in particular our fuels, will be marketed as alternatives to corresponding petroleum-based products. if the price of oil falls, we may be unable to produce products that are cost-effective alternatives to petroleum-based products. declining oil prices, or the perception of a future decline in oil prices, may adversely affect the prices we can obtain from our potential customers or prevent potential customers from entering into agreements with us to buy our products. during sustained periods of lower oil prices we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our financial results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict. our revenues and results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. as a result, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. factors that could cause our quarterly results of operations to fluctuate include: • achievement, or failure, with respect to technology, product development or manufacturing milestones needed to allow us to enter identified markets on a cost effective basis; • delays or greater than anticipated expenses associated with the completion or commissioning of new production facilities, or the time to ramp up and stabilize production following completion of a new production facility; • impairment of assets based on shifting business priorities and working capital limitations; • disruptions in the production process at any manufacturing facility; • losses associated with producing our products as we ramp to commercial production levels; • failure to recover value added tax (or vat) that we currently reflect as recoverable in our financial statements (e.g., due to failure to meet conditions for reimbursement of vat under local law); • the timing, size and mix of sales to customers for our products; • increases in price or decreases in availability of feedstock; • the unavailability of contract manufacturing capacity altogether or at reasonable cost; • exit costs associated with terminating contract manufacturing relationships; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;  25 • gains or losses associated with our hedging activities; • change in the fair value of derivative instruments; • fluctuations in the price of and demand for sugar, ethanol, and petroleum-based and other products for which our products are alternatives; • seasonal variability in production and sales of our products; • competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products; • unanticipated expenses associated with changes in governmental regulations and environmental, health, labor and safety requirements; • reductions or changes to existing fuel and chemical regulations and policies; • departure of executives or other key management employees resulting in transition and severance costs; • our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income; • business interruptions such as earthquakes and other natural disasters; • our ability to integrate businesses that we may acquire; • our ability to successfully collaborate with business venture partners; • risks associated with the international aspects of our business; and • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions, both domestically and in our foreign markets. as part of our operating plan for 2014, we are planning to keep our expenditures to be relatively consistent with prior year. due to the factors described above, among others, the results of any quarterly or annual period may not meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors and may not be meaningful indications of our future performance. loss of key personnel, including key management personnel, and/or failure to attract and retain additional personnel could delay our product development programs and harm our research and development efforts and our ability to meet our business objectives. our business involves complex, global operations across a variety of markets and requires a management team and employee workforce that is knowledgeable in the many areas in which we operate. as we continue to build our business, we will need to hire and retain qualified research and development, management and other personnel to succeed. the process of hiring, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations, in both the united states and brazil, is a lengthy and expensive one. the market for qualified personnel is very competitive because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our technology and anticipated products, particularly in brazil. our failure to hire and retain qualified personnel could impair our ability to meet our research and development and business objectives and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the loss of any key member of our management or key technical and operational employees, or the failure to attract or retain such employees could prevent us from developing and commercializing our products for our target markets and executing our business strategy. we also may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology and other technology-based businesses, particularly in the renewable chemicals and fuels area, or due to the availability of personnel with the qualifications or experience necessary for our business. in addition, reductions to our workforce as part of cost-saving measures may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain key employees. if we do not maintain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience staffing constraints that will adversely affect our ability to meet the demands of our collaborators and customers in a timely fashion or to support our internal research and development programs and operations. in particular, our product and process development programs are dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical and operational personnel. competition for such personnel  26 from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so on acceptable terms. all of our employees are at-will employees, which means that either the employee or we may terminate their employment at any time. growth may place significant demands on our management and our infrastructure. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, expansion of our business as we continue to make efforts to develop and bring our products to market. we have grown from 18 employees at the end of 2005 to 392 at february 28, 2014. our growth and diversified operations have placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. in particular, continued growth could strain our ability to: • manage multiple research and development programs; • operate multiple manufacturing facilities around the world; • develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls; • enhance our reporting systems and procedures; • recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel; • develop and maintain our relationships with existing and potential business partners; • maintain our quality standards; and • maintain customer satisfaction. managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. if we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely impacted. our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies and product candidates. our commercial success will depend substantially on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate legal protection for our technologies and product candidates in the united states and other countries. as of february 28, 2014, we had 248 issued united states and foreign patents and 326 pending united states and foreign patent applications that were owned by or licensed to us. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. we apply for patents covering both our technologies and product candidates, as we deem appropriate. however, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or product candidates in a timely fashion, or at all. our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products or technologies. in addition, the patent positions of companies like ours are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. no consistent policy regarding the breadth of patent claims has emerged to date in the united states and the landscape is expected to become even more uncertain in view of recent rule changes by the uspto, the introduction of patent reform legislation in congress and recent decisions in patent law cases by the united states supreme court. in addition, we obtained certain key united states patents using a procedure for accelerated examination recently implemented by the uspto which requires special activities and disclosures that may create additional risks related to the validity or enforceability of the united states patents so obtained. the patent situation outside of the united states is even less predictable. as a result, the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. moreover, we cannot be certain whether: • we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents and pending patent applications; • we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others will independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any of our or our licensors' patents will be valid or enforceable;  27 • any patents issued to us or our licensors will provide us with any competitive advantages, or will be challenged by third parties; • we will develop additional proprietary products or technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others will have an adverse effect on our business. we do not know whether any of our patent applications or those patent applications that we license will result in the issuance of any patents. even if patents are issued, they may not be sufficient to protect our technology or product candidates. the patents we own or license and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated, rendered unenforceable, or circumvented, and the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages. in particular, united states patents we obtained using the uspto accelerated examination program may introduce additional risks to the validity or enforceability of some or all of these specially-obtained united states patents if validity or enforceability are challenged. moreover, third parties could practice our inventions in territories where we do not have patent protection or in territories where they could obtain a compulsory license to our technology where patented. such third parties may then try to import products made using our inventions into the united states or other territories. additional uncertainty may result from potential passage of patent reform legislation by the united states congress, legal precedent by the united states federal circuit and supreme court as they determine legal issues concerning the scope and construction of patent claims and inconsistent interpretation of patent laws by the lower courts. accordingly, we cannot ensure that any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents, or even if issued, predict the breadth, validity and enforceability of the claims upheld in our and other companies' patents. unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in certain foreign countries where the local laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states or may provide, today or in the future, for compulsory licenses. if competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. moreover, others may independently develop and obtain patents for technologies that are similar to, or superior to, our technologies. if that happens, we may need to license these technologies, and we may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, which could cause harm to our business. we rely in part on trade secrets to protect our technology, and our failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. we rely on trade secrets to protect some of our technology, particularly where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. however, trade secrets are difficult to maintain and protect. our strategy for contract manufacturing and scale-up of commercial production requires us to share confidential information with our international business partners and other parties. our product development collaborations with third parties, including with total, require us to share confidential information, including with employees of total who are seconded to amyris during the term of the collaboration. while we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our or our business partners' employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors. enforcement of claims that a third party has illegally obtained and is using trade secrets is expensive, time consuming and uncertain. in addition, foreign courts are sometimes less willing than united states courts to protect trade secrets. if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, we would not be able to assert our trade secrets against them. we require new employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us. these agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual's relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. these agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. nevertheless, our proprietary information may be disclosed, or these agreements may be unenforceable or difficult to enforce. additionally, trade secret law in brazil differs from that in the united states which requires us to take a different approach to protecting our trade secrets in brazil. some of these approaches to trade secret protection may be novel and untested under brazilian law and we cannot guarantee that we would prevail if our trade secrets are contested in brazil. if any of the above risks materializes, our failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.  28 third parties may misappropriate our yeast strains. third parties, including contract manufacturers, sugar and ethanol mill owners, other contractors and shipping agents, often have custody or control of our yeast strains. if our yeast strains were stolen, misappropriated or reverse engineered, they could be used by other parties who may be able to reproduce the yeast strains for their own commercial gain. if this were to occur, it would be difficult for us to challenge and prevent this type of use, especially in countries where we have limited intellectual property protection or that do not have robust intellectual property law regimes. if we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights or other proprietary rights of third parties, litigation could be costly and time consuming and could prevent us from developing or commercializing our future products. our commercial success depends on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of other parties and without breaching any agreements we have entered into with regard to our technologies and product candidates. we cannot determine with certainty whether patents or patent applications of other parties may materially affect our ability to conduct our business. our industry spans several sectors, including biotechnology, renewable fuels, renewable specialty chemicals and other renewable compounds, and is characterized by the existence of a significant number of patents and disputes regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. because patent applications can take several years to issue, there may currently be pending applications, unknown to us, that may result in issued patents that cover our technologies or product candidates. we are aware of a significant number of patents and patent applications relating to aspects of our technologies filed by, and issued to, third parties. the existence of third-party patent applications and patents could significantly reduce the coverage of patents owned by or licensed to us and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. if we wish to make, use, sell, offer to sell, or import the technology or compound claimed in issued and unexpired patents owned by others, we will need to obtain a license from the owner, enter into litigation to challenge the validity of the patents or incur the risk of litigation in the event that the owner asserts that we infringe its patents. if patents containing competitive or conflicting claims are issued to third parties and these claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we may be enjoined from pursing research, development, or commercialization of products, or be required to obtain licenses to these patents, or to develop or obtain alternative technologies. if a third-party asserts that we infringe upon its patents or other proprietary rights, we could face a number of issues that could seriously harm our competitive position, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims, which could be costly and time consuming to litigate, whether or not the claims have merit, and which could delay getting our products to market and divert management attention from our business; • substantial damages for past infringement, which we may have to pay if a court determines that our product candidates or technologies infringe a third party's patent or other proprietary rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our technologies or future products unless the holder licenses the patent or other proprietary rights to us, which it is not required to do; and • if a license is available from a third party, such third party may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents or proprietary rights. the industries in which we operate, and the biotechnology industry in particular, are characterized by frequent and extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. many biotechnology companies have employed intellectual property litigation as a way to gain a competitive advantage. if any of our competitors have filed patent applications or obtained patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the relevant patent regulatory agency to determine priority of invention and, thus, the right to the patents for these inventions in the united states these proceedings could result in substantial cost to us even if the outcome is favorable. even if successful, an interference proceeding may result in loss of certain claims. our involvement in litigation, interferences, opposition proceedings or other intellectual property proceedings inside and outside of the united states, to defend our intellectual property rights or as a result of alleged infringement of the rights of others, may divert management time from focusing on business operations and could cause us to spend significant resources, all of which could harm our business and results of operations. many of our employees were previously employed at universities, biotechnology, specialty chemical or oil companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. if we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel and be enjoined from certain activities. a loss of key research personnel or their work  29 product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize our product candidates, which could severely harm our business. even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and demand on management resources. we may need to commence litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which would divert resources and management's time and attention and the results of which would be uncertain. enforcement of claims that a third party is using our proprietary rights without permission is expensive, time consuming and uncertain. significant litigation would result in substantial costs, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us and would divert management's attention from our business objectives. in addition, an adverse outcome in litigation could result in a substantial loss of our proprietary rights and we may lose our ability to exclude others from practicing our technology or producing our product candidates. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or bioindustrial technologies. this could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or misappropriation of our other intellectual property rights. proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. moreover, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights in such countries may be inadequate. our products subject us to product-safety risks, and we may be sued for product liability. the design, development, production and sale of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and the associated adverse publicity. our potential products could be used by a wide variety of consumers with varying levels of sophistication. although safety is a priority for us, we are not always in control of the final uses and formulations of the products we supply or their use as ingredients. our products could have detrimental impacts or adverse impacts we cannot anticipate. despite our efforts, negative publicity about amyris, including product safety or similar concerns, whether real or perceived, could occur, and our products could face withdrawal, recall or other quality issues. in addition, we may be named directly in product liability suits relating to our products, even for defects resulting from errors of our commercial partners, contract manufacturers or chemical finishers. these claims could be brought by various parties, including customers who are purchasing products directly from us or other users who purchase products from our customers. we could also be named as co-parties in product liability suits that are brought against the contract manufacturers or brazilian sugar and ethanol mills with whom we partner to produce our products. insurance coverage is expensive, may be difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms. we cannot be certain that our contract manufacturers or the sugar and ethanol producers who partner with us to produce our products will have adequate insurance coverage to cover against potential claims. any insurance we do maintain may not provide adequate coverage against potential losses, and if claims or losses exceed our liability insurance coverage, our business would be adversely impacted. in addition, insurance coverage may become more expensive, which would harm our results of operations. during the ordinary course of business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. from time to time, we may in the ordinary course of business be named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings. these actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, worker's compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damages, civil penalties and other losses of injunctive or declaratory relief. in the event that such actions or indemnities are ultimately resolved unfavorably at amounts exceeding our accrued liability, or at material amounts, the outcome could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. in addition, payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our liquidity position. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and could negatively impact the price of our stock. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. in addition, section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires us and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting. the process of implementing our internal controls and complying with section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant attention of management. we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. in addition, to the extent we  30 create joint ventures or have any variable interest entities and the financial statements of such entities are not prepared by us, we will not have direct control over their financial statement preparation. as a result, we will, for our financial reporting, depend on what these entities report to us, which could result in us adding monitoring and audit processes and increase the difficulty of implementing and maintaining adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. this may be particularly true where we are establishing such entities with commercial partners that do not have sophisticated financial accounting processes in place, or where we are entering into new relationships at a rapid pace, straining our integration capacity. additionally, if we do not receive the information from the joint venture or variable interest entity on a timely basis, this could cause delays in our external reporting. even if we conclude, and our independent registered public accounting firm concurs, that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our results of operations or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. if we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market's confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. in addition, failure to comply with section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including sec action, ineligibility for short form resale registration, the suspension or delisting of our common stock from the stock exchange on which it is listed, and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price and could harm our business. if the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets becomes impaired, it could materially reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income for the year in which the related impairment charges occur. we apply the applicable accounting principles set forth in the united states financial accounting standards board's accounting standards codification to our intangible assets (including goodwill), which prohibits the amortization of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and requires that these assets be reviewed for impairment at least annually. there are several methods that can be used to determine the estimated fair value of the in-process research and development acquired in a business combination. we have used the “income method,” which applies a probability weighting that considers the risk of development and commercialization, to the estimated future net cash flows that are derived from projected sales revenues and estimated costs. these projections are based on factors such as relevant market size, pricing of similar products, and expected industry trends. the estimated future net cash flows are then discounted to the present value using an appropriate discount rate. these assets are treated as indefinite-lived intangible assets until completion or abandonment of the projects, at which time the assets will be amortized over the remaining useful life or written off, as appropriate. if the carrying amount of the assets is greater than the measures of fair value, impairment is considered to have occurred and a write-down of the asset is recorded. any finding that the value of our intangible assets has been impaired would require us to write-down the impaired portion, which could reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income for the year in which the related impairment charges occur.  as of december 31, 2013, we had a net carrying value of approximately $9.1 million in in-process research and development and goodwill associated with our acquisition of draths corporation. our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. in general, under section 382 of the internal revenue code (or the code), a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards (or nols), to offset future taxable income. if the internal revenue service challenges our analysis that our existing nols are not subject to limitations arising from previous ownership changes, or if we undergo an ownership change, our ability to utilize nols could be limited by section 382 of the code. future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under section 382 of the code. furthermore, our ability to utilize nols of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. for these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the nols carryforward as of december 31, 2013, even if we attain profitability. loss of, or inability to secure government contract revenues could impair our business. in early 2010, we were awarded an “integrated bio-refinery” grant from the united states department of energy (or doe). the terms of this grant made funds available to us through 2013 to leverage and expand our existing emeryville, california pilot plant and support laboratories to develop united states-based production capabilities for renewable fuels and chemicals derived from sweet sorghum. in late 2010, we were selected as a sub-contractor in the national advanced biofuels consortium (or nabc) fermentation of lignocellulosic sugars (or fls) grant funded by the doe. the terms of this grant made funds available to us through 2013 to develop strains that consume c5 sugars and to demonstrate production of advanced biofuels from lignocellulosic sugars. in 2012, we entered into a technology investment agreement with the defense advanced research projects agency (or  31 darpa), under which we are performing certain research and development activities funded in part by darpa. generally, these agreements, as amended or modified, have fixed terms and may be terminated, modified or be subject to recovery of payments by the government agency under certain conditions (such as failure to comply with detailed reporting and governance processes or failure to achieve milestones). under these agreements, we are also subject to audits, which can result in corrective action plans and penalties up to and including termination. if darpa terminates its agreement with us, it could reduce our revenues which could harm our business. additionally, we anticipate securing additional government contracts as part of our business plan for 2014 and beyond. if we are unable to secure such government contracts, it could harm our business. our headquarters and other facilities are located in an active earthquake zone, and an earthquake or other types of natural disasters affecting us or our suppliers could cause resource shortages and disrupt and harm our results of operations. we conduct our primary research and development operations in the san francisco bay area in an active earthquake zone, and certain of our suppliers conduct their operations in the same region or in other locations that are susceptible to natural disasters. in addition, california and some of the locations where certain of our suppliers are located have experienced shortages of water, electric power and natural gas from time to time. the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, drought or flood, or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, or any critical resource shortages, affecting us or our suppliers could cause a significant interruption in our business, damage or destroy our facilities, production equipment or inventory or those of our suppliers and cause us to incur significant costs or result in limitations on the availability of our raw materials, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. the insurance we maintain against fires, earthquakes and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. risks related to ownership of our common stock our stock price may be volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and we expect it to continue to be, subject to significant volatility, and it has declined significantly from our initial public offering price. as of february 28, 2014, the reported closing price for our common stock on the nasdaq global select market was $4.57 per share. market prices for securities of early stage companies have historically been particularly volatile. such fluctuations could be in response to, among other things, the factors described in this “risk factors” section or elsewhere in this report, or other factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: • fluctuations in our financial results or outlook or those of companies perceived to be similar to us; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • changes in the prices of commodities associated with our business such as sugar, ethanol and petroleum; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • regulatory developments in the united states, brazil, and/or other foreign countries; • litigation involving us, our general industry or both; • additions or departures of key personnel; • investors' general perception of us; and • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. furthermore, stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected, and continue to affect, the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes and international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.  32 in the past, many companies that have experienced volatility and sustained declines in the market price of their stock have become subject to securities class action and derivative action litigation. we are currently involved in two such lawsuits, as described in more detail below in "item 3. legal proceedings", and we may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. the concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will limit the ability to influence corporate matters. as of february 28, 2014: • our executive officers and directors and their affiliates (including total) together held approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock; • total held approximately 17.7% of our outstanding common stock; and • the two largest holders of outstanding common stock after total (temasek and biolding investment sa (or biolding), each of whom has a designee on our board of directors) together held approximately 23.2% of our outstanding common stock. this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. also, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to control our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if that change of control would benefit our other stockholders. if securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. if any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. if any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. we do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. we do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. in addition, certain of our equipment leases and credit facilities currently restrict our ability to pay dividends. consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. these provisions include: • a staggered board of directors; • authorizing the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock; • authorizing the board of directors to amend our bylaws and to fill board vacancies until the next annual meeting of the stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent;  33 • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • eliminating the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; and • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals.  section 203 of the delaware general corporation law prohibits, subject to some exceptions, “business combinations” between a delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a delaware corporation's voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. we have agreed to opt out of section 203 through our certificate of incorporation, but our certificate of incorporation contains substantially similar protections to our company and stockholders as those afforded under section 203, except that we have agreed with total that it and its affiliates will not be deemed to be “interested stockholders” under such protections.   in addition, we have an agreement with total, which provides that, so long as total holds at least 10% of our voting securities, we must inform total of any offer to acquire us or any decision of our board of directors to sell our company, and we must provide total with information about the contemplated transaction. in such events, total will have an exclusive negotiating period of fifteen business days in the event the board of directors authorizes us to solicit offers to buy amyris, or five business days in the event that we receive an unsolicited offer to purchase us. this exclusive negotiation period will be followed by an additional restricted negotiation period of ten business days, during which we are obligated to continue to negotiate with total and will be prohibited from entering into an agreement with any other potential acquirer. these and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws that became effective upon the completion of our initial public offering under delaware law and in our agreement with total could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and result in the market price of our common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions.  34 executive officers of the registrant the following table provides the names, ages and offices of each of our executive officers as of february 28, 2013: name   age   position executive officers:         john melo   47   director, president and chief executive officer joel cherry, ph.d.   53   president of research and development paulo diniz   56   interim chief financial officer zanna mcferson   48   chief business officer nicholas khadder   40   general counsel and corporate secretary john melo john melo has nearly three decades of combined experience as an entrepreneur and thought leader in the global fuels industry and technology innovation. mr. melo has served as our president and chief executive officer and a director since january 2007 and our president since january 2008. before joining amyris, mr. melo served in various senior executive positions at bp plc (formerly british petroleum), one of the world’s largest energy firms, from 1997 to 2006, most recently as president of u.s. fuels operations from 2004 until december 2006, and previously as chief information officer of the refining and marketing segment from 2001 to 2003, senior advisor for e-business strategy to lord browne, bp chief executive, from 2000 to 2001, and director of global brand development from 1999 to 2000. before joining bp, mr. melo was with ernst & young, an accounting firm, from 1996 to 1997, and a member of the management teams of several startup companies, including computer aided services, a management systems integration company, and alldata corporation, a provider of automobile repair software to the automotive service industry. mr. melo currently serves on the board of directors of u.s. venture, inc. and renmatix inc., and also serves as vice chairman of the board of directors of baybio. mr. melo was formerly an appointed member to the u.s. section of the u.s.-brazil ceo forum. joel cherry, ph.d. dr. joel cherry has served as our president of research and development since july 2011 and previously as our senior vice president of research programs and operations since november 2008. before joining amyris, dr. cherry was senior director of bioenergy biotechnology at novozymes, a biotechnology company focusing on development and manufacture of industrial enzymes from 1992 to november 2008. at novozymes, he served in a variety of r&d scientific and management positions, including membership in novozymes’ international r&d management team, and as principal investigator and director of the bioenergy project, a u.s. department of energy-funded $18 million effort initiated in 2000. dr. cherry holds a bachelor of arts degree in chemistry from carleton college and a doctor of philosophy degree in biochemistry from the university of new hampshire. paulo diniz paulo diniz was named interim chief financial officer in december 2013 after initially serving as the ceo of amyris brasil, starting in march 2011. prior to joining amyris, mr. diniz served as chief financial officer of bunge brasil s.a., a wholly owned subsidiary of bunge ltd., an agribusiness and food company, from april 2009 to november 2010. from 2003 to april 2009, mr. diniz was chief financial officer and a member of the board of directors of cosan s.a., a renewable energy company. he received a master of business administration degree from imd in switzerland, a bachelor of science degree in production engineering from the university of são paulo (usp) in brazil, and did post graduate work in human resources at insead in france. zanna mcferson zanna mcferson joined us as our chief business officer in march 2013. prior to joining amyris, ms. mcferson was a vice president at cargill, incorporated, a privately-held international producer and marketer of food, agricultural, financial and industrial products and services, where she served as business director, truvia enterprise, from august 2008 to february 2013. previously, ms. mcferson served as business director, health and nutrition - truvia, at cargill from may 2006 to july 2008. she joined cargill in 1990 as a commodity trader and held various roles in sales, management, and new product development until joining the leadership team of cargill health and nutrition in may 2005. ms. mcferson received a bachelor of arts degree in economics  35 from the university of illinois and a master of business administration degree from the university of iowa. she served on the board of directors for the international stevia council, and serves on the board of directors of the real stevia company in stockholm, sweden. nicholas khadder nicholas khadder has served as our general counsel and corporate secretary since december 2013. previously, mr. khadder served as our interim general counsel from july 2013 to december 2013, and as our assistant general counsel from october 2010 to july 2013. prior to joining amyris, mr. khadder served in senior corporate counsel roles at leapfrog enterprises, inc., an educational entertainment company, from august 2008 to september 2010, and at protiviti, inc., an internal audit and risk consulting firm, from june 2005 to july 2008. before commencing his in-house legal career, mr. khadder was a corporate law associate at fenwick & west llp from 1998 to 2005. mr. khadder holds a doctor of jurisprudence degree from berkeley law (the university of california, berkeley, school of law), and a bachelor’s degree in english from the university of california, berkeley.  36 item 1b. unresolved