item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. risks related to our business during or following a period of disruption in the financial markets or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected. the financial markets experienced significant volatility worldwide from the third quarter of 2008 through 2010, and the united states and many other economies experienced a prolonged economic downturn, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of investments and decreased economic activity. while economic conditions have improved, uncertainty remains regarding the timing and strength of any economic recovery. the trend toward recovery and growth may not continue. even if growth continues, it may be at a slow rate for an extended period of time and other economic conditions, such as the residential and commercial real estate environment and employment rates, may continue to be weak. although the u.s. and foreign governments have taken various actions to try to stabilize the financial markets, it is unclear whether those actions will be effective and it is possible those actions could lead to an inflationary environment. furthermore, financial markets may again experience significant disruption. if economic conditions remain weak or deteriorate, or if financial markets experience significant disruption, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity. several of the risks we face, including those related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance arrangements, our estimates of loss reserves, emerging claim and coverage issues, the competitive environment and regulatory developments result from, or are made worse by, an economic slowdown or financial disruption. many of these risks could materialize, and our financial results could be negatively impacted, even after the end of an economic downturn or financial disruption. during or following an economic downturn, lower levels of economic activity could reduce (and historically have reduced) exposure changes at renewal. in addition, because earned premiums lag written premiums, our results can be adversely affected even after general economic conditions have improved. an inflationary environment (which may follow government efforts to stabilize the economy) may also adversely impact our loss reserves and could adversely impact the valuation of our investment portfolio. finally, as a result of the financial market disruptions over the past three years, we may face increased regulation. any or all of these reactions could adversely affect our business. our loss reserves are based on estimates and may be inadequate to cover our actual losses. we are liable for losses and loss adjustment expenses under the terms of the insurance policies we underwrite. therefore, we must establish and maintain reserves for our estimated liability for loss and loss adjustment expenses with respect to our entire insurance business. if we fail to accurately assess the risks associated with the business and property that we insure, our reserves may be inadequate to cover our actual losses. we establish loss reserves that represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have occurred but have not yet been reported to us. our loss reserves are based on estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims and on actuarial estimation techniques. these estimates are based on historical information and on estimates of future trends that may affect the frequency of claims and changes in the average cost of claims that may arise in the future. they are inherently uncertain and do not represent an exact measure of actual liability. judgment is required to determine the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. the interpretation of this historical data can be impacted by external forces, principally legislative changes, economic fluctuations and legal trends. if there were unfavorable changes in our assumptions, our reserves may need to be increased. any increase in reserves would result in a charge to our earnings. in particular, workers’ compensation claims are often paid over a long period of time. in addition, there are no policy limits on our liability for workers’ compensation claims as there are for other forms of insurance. therefore, estimating reserves for workers’ compensation claims may be more uncertain than estimating reserves for other types of insurance claims with shorter or more definite periods between 37     table of contents occurrence of the claim and final determination of the loss and with policy limits on liability for claim amounts. accordingly, our reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses. if we change our reserve estimates for any line of business, these changes would result in adjustments to our reserves and our loss and loss adjustment expenses incurred in the period in which the estimates are changed. if the estimate were increased, our pre-tax income for the period in which we make the change will decrease by a corresponding amount. an increase in reserves could result in a reduction in our surplus, which could result in a downgrade in our a.m. best rating. such a downgrade could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to sell insurance policies. catastrophic losses or the frequency of smaller insured losses may exceed our expectations as well as the limits of our reinsurance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. property and casualty insurers are subject to claims arising from catastrophes. catastrophes can cause losses in multiple property and casualty lines, including property and workers’ compensation. workers’ compensation constitutes approximately 30% of our business and we write commercial property insurance in our specialty program segment and our small commercial business segment. the incidence and severity of catastrophes, such as hurricanes, windstorms and large-scale terrorist attacks, are inherently unpredictable, and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. in addition, it is possible that we may experience an unusual frequency of smaller losses in a particular period. in either case, the consequences could be substantial volatility in our financial condition or results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and our ability to write new business. although we attempt to manage our exposure to these types of catastrophic and cumulative losses, including through the use of reinsurance, the severity or frequency of these types of losses may exceed our expectations as well as the limits of our reinsurance coverage. if we do not accurately price our policies, our results of operations will be adversely affected. in general, the premiums for our insurance policies are established at the time a policy is issued and, therefore, before all of our underlying costs are known. like other insurance companies, we rely on estimates and assumptions in setting our premium rates. establishing adequate premiums is necessary, together with investment income, to generate sufficient revenue to offset losses, loss adjustment expenses and other underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. if we do not accurately assess the risks that we assume, we may not charge adequate premiums to cover our losses and expenses, which could reduce our net income and cause us to become unprofitable. for example, when initiating workers’ compensation coverage on a policyholder, we estimate future claims expense based, in part, on prior claims information provided by the policyholder’s previous insurance carriers. if this prior claims information were incomplete or inaccurate, we may under-price premiums by using claims estimates that are too low. as a result, our actual costs for providing insurance coverage to our policyholders may be significantly higher than our premiums. in order to accurately price our policies, we must: • collect and properly analyze a substantial volume of data from our insureds; • develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulas; • closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and • project both frequency and severity of our insureds’ losses with reasonable accuracy. we also must implement our pricing accurately in accordance with our assumptions. our ability to undertake these efforts successfully and, as a result, accurately price our policies, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, principally: • insufficient reliable data; • incorrect or incomplete analysis of available data; • uncertainties generally inherent in estimates and assumptions; • our inability to implement appropriate rating formulas or other pricing methodologies; 38     table of contents • regulatory constraints on rate increases; • unexpected escalation in the costs of ongoing medical treatment; • our inability to accurately estimate investment yields and the duration of our liability for loss and loss adjustment expenses; and • unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action. our premium rates are established for the term of the policy. consequently, we could set our premiums too low, which would negatively affect our results of operations and our profitability, or we could set our premiums too high, which could reduce our competitiveness and lead to lower revenues. a downgrade in the a.m. best rating of our insurance subsidiaries would likely reduce the amount of business we are able to write and could adversely impact the competitive positions of our insurance subsidiaries. rating agencies evaluate insurance companies based on their ability to pay claims. our domestic insurance subsidiaries, tic, ric, wic, aiic, mcic, snic, aick and alic, our irish subsidiary aiu, our united kingdom subsidiary, ael, and our bermuda subsidiary, aii, each currently has a financial strength rating of “a” (excellent) from a.m. best, which is the rating agency that we believe has the most influence on our business. this rating, which is the third highest of 16 rating levels, is assigned to companies that, in the opinion of a.m. best, have demonstrated an excellent overall performance when compared to industry standards and have an excellent ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. the ratings of a.m. best are subject to periodic review using, among other things, proprietary capital adequacy models, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. our competitive position relative to other companies is determined in part by the a.m. best rating of our insurance subsidiaries. a.m. best ratings are directed toward the concerns of policyholders and insurance agencies and are not intended for the protection of investors or as a recommendation to buy, hold or sell securities. there can be no assurances that our insurance subsidiaries will be able to maintain their current ratings. any downgrade in ratings would likely adversely affect our business through the loss of certain existing and potential policyholders and the loss of relationships with independent agencies that might move to other companies with higher ratings. some of our policyholders are required to maintain workers’ compensation coverage with an insurance company with an a.m. best rating of “a-” (excellent) or better. we are not able to quantify the percentage of our business, in terms of premiums or otherwise, that would be affected by a downgrade in our a.m. best rating. if market conditions cause our reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. as part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase quota share reinsurance and excess of loss and catastrophe reinsurance. pursuant to our quota share reinsurance agreement with maiden insurance, it reinsures approximately 40% of our net retained premiums (the “maiden quota share”). in addition, we purchase reinsurance on an excess of loss and catastrophe basis for protection against catastrophic events and other large losses. market conditions beyond our control, in terms of price and available capacity, may affect the level of our business and profitability. the maiden quota share has a three year term, which, subject to the occurrence of certain early termination events that permit either party to terminate on 30 days’ written notice, will renew automatically for successive three year terms unless one of the parties notifies the other of its election not to renew not less than nine months prior to the expiration of any such three year term. the current term expires june 30, 2013. our excess of loss and catastrophe reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. we may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance facilities, including the maiden quota share, or to obtain other reinsurance in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. increases in the cost of reinsurance would adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance on favorable terms, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite, which would reduce our revenues. 39     table of contents retentions in various lines of business expose us to potential losses. we retain risk for our own account on business underwritten by our insurance subsidiaries. the determination to reduce the amount of reinsurance we purchase or not to purchase reinsurance for a particular risk or line of business is based on a variety of factors, including market conditions, pricing, availability of reinsurance, the level of our capital and our loss history. such determinations have the effect of increasing our financial exposure to losses associated with such risks or in such lines of business and, in the event of significant losses associated with such risks or lines of business, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to recover amounts due from our third party reinsurers, which would adversely affect our financial condition. reinsurance does not discharge our obligations under the insurance policies we write; it merely provides us with a contractual right to seek reimbursement on certain claims. we remain liable to our policyholders even if we are unable to make recoveries that we are entitled to receive under our reinsurance contracts. as a result, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. losses are recovered from our reinsurers after underlying policy claims are paid. the creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we recover amounts to which we are entitled. therefore, if a reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations to us, we would be responsible for claims and claim settlement expenses for which we would have otherwise received payment from the reinsurer. if we were unable to collect these amounts from our reinsurers, our costs would increase and our financial condition would be adversely affected. as of december 31, 2010, we had an aggregate amount of approximately $775.4 million of recoverables from third party reinsurers on paid and unpaid losses. our relationship with maiden holdings, ltd. and its subsidiaries may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest, related party transactions, business opportunity issues and legal challenges. maiden holdings, ltd. (“maiden”) is a publicly-held bermuda insurance holding company (nasdaq: mhld) formed by michael karfunkel, george karfunkel and barry zyskind, our principal shareholders, and, respectively, our chairman of the board of directors, one of our directors, and our chief executive officer and director. as of december 31, 2010, michael karfunkel, george karfunkel and barry zyskind own or control approximately 13.9%, 9.4% and 4.99%, respectively, of the issued and outstanding capital stock of maiden. mr. zyskind serves as the non-executive chairman of maiden’s board of directors. maiden insurance, a wholly-owned subsidiary of maiden, is a bermuda reinsurer. conflicts of interest could arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to maiden or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or our subsidiaries, on the other hand. in addition, potential conflicts of interest may arise should our interests and those of maiden diverge. mr. zyskind’s service as our president and chief executive officer and non-executive chairman of the board of maiden could also raise a potential challenge under anti-trust laws. section 8 of the clayton antitrust act prohibits a person from serving as a director or officer in any two competing corporations under certain circumstances. if we and maiden were in the future deemed to be competitors within the meaning of the clayton act and certain thresholds relating to direct competition between us and maiden are met, the department of justice and federal trade commission could challenge the arrangement. our relationship with american capital acquisition corporation and its subsidiaries may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest, related party transactions, business opportunity issues and legal challenges. acac is an insurance holding company owned by the trust, michael karfunkel, individually (“karfunkel”), and the company. on march 1, 2010, acac acquired from gmac its u.s. consumer property and casualty insurance business. karfunkel is one of our principal shareholders and our chairman of the board of directors. we own 53,054 shares of preferred stock in acac, which provides for an 8% cumulative dividend, and is non-redeemable and convertible, at our option, into 21.25% of the issued and outstanding common stock of acac. assuming the conversion of our preferred stock in acac, the trust and karfunkel would own, respectively, 56.98% and 21.77% of the issued and outstanding common stock of acac. 40     table of contents we are entitled to appoint two members to acac’s board of directors, which consists of six members, and have appointed donald t. decarlo, who is an independent member of our board of directors, and harry schlachter, our treasurer, as our designated directors on acac’s board of directors. in addition, karfunkel is the chairman of the board of directors of acac. conflicts of interest could arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to acac or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or our subsidiaries, on the other hand. in addition, potential conflicts of interest could arise where our interests and those of acac diverge. we are dependent on maiden for commission and fee income. we are dependent on maiden for commission and fee income through the maiden quota share by which maiden insurance reinsures our insurance subsidiaries, the asset management agreement between maiden and maiden insurance and our subsidiary, aii insurance management ltd., by which we manage maiden’s and maiden insurance’s invested assets, and the reinsurance brokerage agreement, by which our subsidiary, aii reinsurance broker limited, provides maiden insurance certain reinsurance brokerage services. pursuant to the maiden quota share, we receive ceding commission of 31% of ceded written premiums on all business except retail commercial package business for which we receive a ceding commission of 34.375%. the maiden quota share, which had an initial term of three years, has been renewed for a three year term until june 30, 2013 and will automatically renew for successive three year terms, unless either aii or maiden insurance notifies the other of its election not to renew not less than nine months prior to the end of any such three year term. in addition, either party is entitled to terminate on thirty days’ notice or less upon the occurrence of certain early termination events, which include a default in payment, insolvency, change in control of aii or maiden insurance, run-off, or a reduction of 50% or more of the shareholders’ equity of maiden insurance or the combined shareholders’ equity of aii and our u.s., irish and u.k. insurance companies. pursuant to the asset management agreement, we receive a quarterly fee equal to 0.20% per annum, which is reduced to 0.15% per annum if the average invested assets for the quarter exceed $1 billion. the asset management agreement has a one year term and will renew automatically for successive one year terms unless notice of intent not to renew is provided. pursuant to the reinsurance brokerage agreement, we receive a brokerage commission equal to 1.25% of the premium ceded to maiden insurance under the quota share reinsurance agreement. there is no assurance that these arrangements will remain in place beyond their current terms and we may not be able to readily replace these arrangements if they terminate. if we were unable to continue or replace these arrangements on equally favorable terms, our underwriting capacity and commission and fee income could decline, we could experience a downgrade in our a.m. best rating, and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully acquire or integrate additional business or manage the growth of our operations, which could make it difficult for us to compete and could negatively affect our profitability. from time to time we may pursue additional acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives. the process of integrating an acquired business or company can be complex and costly, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire additional existing business on acceptable terms or that we will be successful in integrating any business that we acquire. in addition, our growth strategy of expanding in our existing markets, opportunistically acquiring books of business, other insurance companies or producers, entering new geographic markets and further developing our relationships with independent agencies and extended warranty/service contract administrators subjects us to various risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • identify profitable new geographic markets for entry; • attract and retain qualified personnel for expanded operations; 41     table of contents • identify, recruit and integrate new independent agencies and extended warranty/service contract administrators; • identify potential acquisition targets and successfully acquire them; • expand existing agency relationships; and • augment our internal monitoring and control systems as we expand our business. we cannot assure you that we will effectively manage our growth or that any new business will be profitable. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems to conduct our business, and our success and profitability rely, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and implement technology improvements. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. in addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in accelerated recognition of expenses. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology platform, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. our business is also dependent upon the uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunication systems. we rely upon our systems, as well as the systems of our vendors, to underwrite and process our business, make claim payments, provide customer service, provide policy administration services, such as endorsements, cancellations and premium collections, comply with insurance regulatory requirements and perform actuarial and other analytical functions necessary for pricing and product development. our operations are dependent upon our ability to timely and efficiently process our business and protect our information and telecommunications systems from physical loss, telecommunications failure or other similar catastrophic events, as well as from security breaches. while we have implemented business contingency plans and other reasonable and appropriate internal controls to protect our systems from interruption, loss or security breaches, a sustained business interruption or system failure could adversely impact our ability to process our business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. likewise, a security breach of our computer systems could also interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation in the event confidential customer information is disclosed to third parties. any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, operations or reputation. if our businesses do not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests at least annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. if it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we would be required to write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. such impairments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. 42     table of contents our specialty risk and extended warranty business is dependent upon the sale by third parties of products covered by warranties and service contracts. our specialty risk and extended warranty segment primarily covers manufacturers, service providers and retailers for the cost of performing their obligations under extended warranties and service contracts provided in connection with the sale or lease of various types of consumer electronics, automobiles, light and heavy construction equipment and other consumer and commercial products. thus, any decrease in the sale or leasing of these products, whether due to economic factors or otherwise, is likely to have an adverse impact upon our specialty risk and extended warranty business. we cannot influence materially the success of our specialty risk clients’ primary product sales and leasing efforts. some of the largest purchasers of our specialty risk insurance products in the united states are manufacturers, service providers and retailers that issue extended warranties or service contracts for consumer and commercial-grade goods, including coverage against accidental damage to the goods covered by the warranty or service contract. we insure these policyholders against the cost of repairing or replacing such goods in the event of such accidental damage. state insurance regulators may take the position that certain of the extended warranties or service contracts issued by our policyholders constitute insurance contracts that may only be issued by licensed insurance companies. in that event, the extended warranty or service contract business of our policyholders may have to be restructured, which could adversely affect our specialty risk and extended warranty business. if we cannot sustain our business relationships, including our relationships with independent agencies and third party warranty administrators, we may be unable to operate profitably. our business relationships are generally governed by agreements with agents and warranty administrators that may be terminated on short notice. we market our small commercial insurance primarily through independent wholesale and retail agencies. except in connection with certain acquisitions, independent agencies generally are not obligated to promote our products and may sell insurance offered by our competitors. as a result, our continued profitability depends, in part, on the marketing efforts of our independent agencies and on our ability to offer property and casualty insurance and maintain financial strength ratings that meet the requirements and preferences of our independent agencies and their policyholders. we use third-party claims administrators and other outside companies to underwrite policies and manage claims on our behalf for some portions of our business, including our specialty risk and extended warranty segment and our specialty program business segment. we are dependent on the skills and performance of these parties, and we cannot control their actions, although we do provide underwriting guidelines and periodically audit their performance. the loss of the services of these providers, or our inability to contract and retain other skilled service providers from a limited pool of qualified insurance service providers, could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy or could otherwise adversely affect us. additional capital that we may require in the future may not be available to us, or only available to us on unfavorable terms. our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including regulatory requirements, the financial stability of our reinsurers, future acquisitions and our ability to write new business and establish premium rates sufficient to cover our estimated claims. we may need to raise additional capital or curtail our growth to support future operating requirements or cover claims. if we have to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available to us or may be available only on terms that are not favorable, such as terms resulting in dilution to our stockholders or the securities sold may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our currently issued and outstanding common stock. in addition, under certain circumstances, we may sell our common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into shares of our common stock, at a price per share less than the market value of our common stock. if we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to support future growth or operating requirements and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 43     table of contents the covenants in our credit facility limit our financial and operational flexibility, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. our syndicated credit facility contains covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to borrow money, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, sell assets, merge or consolidate. these covenants could restrict our ability to achieve our business objectives, and therefore, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, this agreement also requires us to maintain specific financial ratios. if we fail to comply with these covenants or meet these financial ratios, the lenders under our credit facility could declare a default and demand immediate repayment of all amounts owed to them, cancel their commitments to lend and/or issue letters of credit. if we were unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. investment income is an important component of our net income. we primarily manage our investment portfolio internally under investment guidelines approved by our board of directors and the boards of directors of our subsidiaries. although these guidelines stress diversification and capital preservation, our investments are subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to general economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations, market volatility, various regulatory issues, credit risk, potential litigation, tax audits and disputes, failure to monetize in an effective and/or cost-efficient manner and poor operating results. general economic conditions may be adversely affected by u.s. involvement in hostilities with other countries and large-scale acts of terrorism, or the threat of hostilities or terrorist acts. we invest a small portion of our portfolio in below investment-grade securities. the risk of default by borrowers that issue below investment-grade securities is significantly greater than that of other borrowers because these borrowers are often highly leveraged and more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, including a recession. in addition, these securities are generally unsecured and often subordinated to other debt. the risk that we may not be able to recover our investment in below investment-grade securities is higher than with investment-grade securities. we may be forced to liquidate investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. investment losses could decrease our asset base and adversely affect our ability to conduct business and pay claims. any significant decline in our investment income would adversely affect our revenues and net income and, as a result, decrease our surplus and stockholders’ equity. a significant amount of our assets is invested in fixed income securities and is subject to market fluctuations. our investment portfolio consists substantially of fixed income securities. as of december 31, 2010, our investment in fixed income securities was approximately $1.2 billion, or 82% of our total investment portfolio. the fair market value of these assets and the investment income from these assets fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. the fair market value of fixed income securities generally decreases as interest rates rise. conversely, if interest rates decline, investment income earned from future investments in fixed income securities will decrease. in addition, some fixed income securities, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, carry prepayment risk as a result of interest rate fluctuations. based upon the composition and duration of our investment portfolio at december 31, 2010, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair value of our investments of approximately $52.5 million. the value of investments in fixed income securities, and particularly our investments in high-yield securities, is subject to impairment as a result of deterioration in the credit worthiness of the issuer or increases in market interest rates. although we attempt to manage this risk by diversifying our portfolio and emphasizing preservation of principal, our investments are subject to losses as a result of a general decrease in commercial and economic activity for an industry sector in which we invest, as well as risks inherent in particular securities. these conditions could result in lower than expected yields on our fixed securities and short term investment portfolio. in addition, our investment in less liquid investments, such as our investment 44     table of contents in acac, is subject to increased valuation uncertainty because the valuation is more subjective, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying cost) does not reflect the price at which an actual transaction would occur. we invest a portion of our investment portfolio in equity securities, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income securities. at december 31, 2010, our investments in equity securities were approximately $17.4 million, or approximately one percent of our investment portfolio. we reported unrealized losses at year end in the amounts of $2.5 million and $14.7 million as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. while we attempt to manage these risks through investment guidelines and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn or recession. as a result of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, our net investment income could decrease, or we could experience realized and/or unrealized investment losses, all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. we are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in the united kingdom, bermuda, italy, ireland, france, norway, luxembourg and canada. while our business outside of the united states currently constitutes approximately 34% of our gross written premium, we are subject to a number of significant risks in conducting such business. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive government actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. in addition, some countries have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of the local laws. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. our operating results may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. our functional currency is the u.s. dollar. for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 34%, 21% and 15%, respectively, of our net premiums written were written in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. as of both december 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 10% of our cash and investments were denominated in non-u.s. currencies. we hold investments denominated in euros and british pounds because we write business in the eu and the united kingdom, and may, from time to time, experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of these non-u.s. currencies, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may be subject to taxes on our luxembourg affiliates’ equalization reserves. in 2009, we acquired a luxembourg holding company and five luxembourg-domiciled captive insurance companies with equalization reserves in the total amount of approximately $126 million. in 2010, we acquired a luxembourg captive reinsurer with equalization reserves of approximately $53 million. an “equalization reserve” is a catastrophe reserve in excess of required reserves determined by a formula based on the volatility of the business ceded to the captive insurance company. provided that we are able to cede losses to the captive insurance companies through intercompany reinsurance arrangements that are sufficient to exhaust the captives’ equalization reserves, luxembourg would not, under laws currently in effect, impose any income, corporation or profits tax on the captive insurance companies. however, if the captive reinsurance companies were to cease reinsuring business without exhausting the equalization reserves, they would recognize income that would be taxed by luxembourg at a rate of approximately 30%. our business is dependent on the efforts of our principal executive officers. our success is dependent on the efforts of our principal executive officers, barry d. zyskind, ronald e. pipoly, jr., michael saxon, christopher longo and max caviet, because of their industry expertise, knowledge of our markets and relationships with our independent agencies and warranty administrators. although we have entered into employment agreements with all of our principal executive officers, should any of these executive officers cease working for us, we may be unable to find acceptable replacements with comparable skills and experience in the workers’ compensation insurance industry and/or the specialty risk sectors that we 45     table of contents target, and our business may be adversely affected. we do not currently maintain life insurance policies with respect to our executive officers or other employees. amtrust is an insurance holding company and does not have any direct operations. amtrust is a holding company that transacts business through its operating subsidiaries. our primary assets are the capital stock of these operating subsidiaries. payments from our insurance company subsidiaries pursuant to management agreements and tax sharing agreements are our primary source of funds to pay our direct expenses. we anticipate that such payments, together with dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries, will continue to be the primary source of our funds. our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders largely depends upon the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends to us. payment of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries is restricted by insurance laws of various states, and the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business (ireland, england and bermuda), including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds, and could be subject to contractual restrictions in the future, including those imposed by indebtedness we may incur in the future. as a result, at times, we may not be able to receive dividends from our insurance subsidiaries and may not receive dividends in amounts necessary to pay dividends on our capital stock. as of december 31, 2010, our insurance subsidiaries could pay dividends to us of $253 million without prior regulatory approval. any dividends paid by our subsidiaries would reduce their surplus. the inability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and other permitted payments in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level would have a material adverse effect on our operations. aii may become subject to taxes in bermuda after march 28, 2016. the bermuda minister of finance, under the exempted undertakings tax protection act 1966, as amended, of bermuda, has given aii an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to aii or any of its operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until march 28, 2016. see “business —  certain international tax considerations.” given the limited duration of the minister of finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that aii will not be subject to any bermuda tax after march 28, 2016. in the event that aii becomes subject to any bermuda tax after such date, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. risks related to our industry the property and casualty insurance industry is cyclical in nature, which may affect our overall financial performance. historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical periods of price competition and excess capacity (known as a soft market) followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity (known as a hard market). although an individual insurance company’s financial performance is also dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. we cannot predict with certainty the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle because the cyclicality is due in large part to the actions of our competitors and general economic factors beyond our control. we experienced increased price competition in certain of our target markets during 2008, 2009 and 2010, and these cyclical patterns, the actions of our competitors, and general economic factors could cause our revenues and net income to fluctuate, which may cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. although we engage in other businesses, approximately 30% of our gross written premium currently is attributable to workers’ compensation insurance. as a result, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have an 46     table of contents adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. for example, if legislators in one of our larger markets were to enact legislation to increase the scope or amount of benefits for employees under workers’ compensation insurance policies without related premium increases or loss control measures, this could negatively affect the workers’ compensation insurance industry. negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have a greater effect on us than on more diversified insurance companies that also sell many other types of insurance. in florida, our second largest state for underwriting workers’ compensation insurance premiums, insurance regulators set the premium rates we may charge. the florida insurance regulators may set rates below those that we require to maintain profitability. for example, the florida office of insurance regulation (oir) approved overall average decreases in premium rates for all workers’ compensation insurance policies written by florida licensed insurers totaling approximately 44% between 2008 and 2010. in november 2010, the oir approved a 7.8% rate increase effective for january 1, 2011. a decline in the level of business activity of our policyholders could negatively affect our earnings and profitability. in 2010, primarily all of our workers’ compensation gross premiums written were derived from small businesses. because workers’ compensation premium rates are calculated, in general, as a percentage of a policyholder’s payroll expense, premiums fluctuate depending upon the level of business activity and number of employees of our policyholders. small businesses may be more vulnerable to changes in economic conditions because of their size. we believe that the most common reason for policyholder non-renewals is business failure. as a result, our workers’ compensation gross premiums written are primarily dependent upon economic conditions where our policyholders operate. we operate in a highly competitive industry and may lack the financial resources to compete effectively. we compete with other insurance companies, and many of our existing and potential competitors are significantly larger, have longer operating histories, and possess greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. in our small commercial business segment, we also compete with individual self-insured companies, state insurance pools and self-insurance funds. we compete on the basis of many factors, including coverage availability, responsiveness to the needs of our independent producers, claims management, payment/settlement terms, premium rates, policy terms, types of insurance offered, overall financial strength, financial ratings and reputation. if any of our competitors offer premium rates, policy terms or types of insurance that are more competitive than ours, we could lose market share. there is no assurance that we will maintain our current competitive position in the markets in which we currently operate or that we will establish a competitive position in new markets into which we may expand. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. in some instances, these changes may not become apparent until after we have issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. as a result, the full extent of our liability under an insurance policy may not be known until many years after the policy is issued. for example, medical costs associated with permanent and partial disabilities may increase more rapidly or be higher than we currently expect. changes of this nature may expose us to higher claims than we anticipated when we wrote the underlying policy. unexpected increases in our claim costs many years after policies are issued may also result in our inability to recover from certain of our reinsurers the full amount that they would otherwise owe us for such claims costs because certain of the reinsurance agreements covering our business include commutation clauses that permit the reinsurers to terminate their obligations by making a final payment to us based on an estimate of their remaining liabilities. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could be harmful to our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 47     table of contents we are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability, limit our growth or restrict our ability to transact business. our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which they do business. see “business — regulation” for a discussion of the various types of regulation we face. insurance regulation generally is intended to protect policyholders, not shareholders. in the united states, insurance regulation generally is administered by each state through its state insurance department. states regulate, among other things: • solvency; • the lines of business we may transact; • certain transactions between our insurance subsidiaries and affiliates, including us; • the nature, quality and concentration of our investments; • rates we may charge and the terms and conditions of our policy forms; and • dividends paid by our insurance subsidiaries; although the u.s. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, there have been proposals from time to time, including during and after the financial crisis in 2008 through 2010, to impose federal regulation on the insurance industry. on july 21, 2010, the president signed into law the dodd-frank act, which is more fully described in “business — regulation — dodd-frank act.” these types of federal regulation could impose significant burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to smaller insurers who may not be subject to the same level of regulation. our non-u.s. subsidiaries are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they operate. in the event that a regulatory authority determines that we have failed to comply with regulatory requirements applicable to our business, we could be subject to actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, such as fines, penalties or orders to cease transacting business. furthermore, the enactment of new laws and regulations and changes in the interpretations of existing laws and regulations that are not yet contemplated could have a material adverse effect on our business. the european union’s executive body, the european commission, is implementing new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called solvency ii that would apply to our businesses across the european union (including the united kingdom) beginning as soon as the fourth quarter of 2012. under solvency ii, it is possible that the u.s. parent of a european union subsidiary could be subject to certain solvency ii requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary’s capital position is dependent on the parent company and the u.s. company is not already subject to regulations deemed “equivalent” to solvency ii. while it is not yet known how these actions will impact us, such regulation could result in a need for additional capital, increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management. regulators in bermuda and other jurisdictions in which we operate are also considering various proposals for financial and regulatory reform. the future impact of such initiatives, if any, on our results of operations or our financial condition cannot be determined at this time. we are unable to predict whether any of these laws and regulations will be adopted, the form in which any such laws and regulations would be adopted, or the effect, if any, these developments would have on our operations and financial condition. we may have exposure to losses from terrorism for which we are required by law to provide coverage regarding such losses. u.s. insurers are required by state and federal law to offer coverage for terrorism in certain commercial lines, including workers’ compensation. as discussed in “business — regulation — federal and state legislative and regulatory changes,” in response to the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the united states congress enacted legislation designed to ensure, among other things, the availability of insurance 48     table of contents coverage for foreign terrorist acts, including the requirement that insurers offer such coverage in certain commercial lines. tria and tripra require commercial property and casualty insurance companies to offer coverage for certain acts of terrorism and established a federal assistance program through the end of 2014 to help such insurers cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses. the impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on us would depend upon the nature, extent, location and timing of such an act. although we reinsure a portion of the risk we retain under the program, our terrorism reinsurance does not provide coverage for an act stemming from nuclear, biological or chemical terrorism. our policies providing specialty risk and extended warranty coverage are not intended to provide coverage for losses arising from acts of terrorism. accordingly, we have not obtained reinsurance for terrorism losses nor taken any steps to preserve our rights to the benefits of the tria program for this line of business and would not be entitled to recover from our reinsurers or the tria program if we were required to pay any terrorism losses under our specialty risk and extended warranty segment. there have been no claims filed under the tria program as of yet, so there is still a great deal of uncertainty regarding how the federal government will implement the rules governing such claims. it is possible that the fact that we have not taken steps to preserve our right to the benefits of the tria program for the u.s. portion of our specialty risk and extended warranty segment may adversely affect our ability to collect under the program generally. the federal terrorism risk assistance provided by tria and tripra will expire at the end of 2014. as a result of the above, there remains considerable uncertainty regarding the extent and adequacy of terrorism coverage that will be available to protect our interests in the event of future terrorist attacks. any future renewal by congress may be on substantially less favorable terms. the effects of the increasing amount of litigation on our business are uncertain. although we are not currently involved in any material litigation with our customers, other members of the insurance industry are the target of class action lawsuits and other types of litigation, some of which involve claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts, and the outcomes of which are unpredictable. this litigation is based on a variety of issues, including insurance and claim settlement practices. we cannot predict with any certainty whether we will be involved in such litigation in the future or what impact such litigation would have on our business. in addition, we have received inquiries from various attorney generals’ offices in connection with sales and customer refund issues associated with vehicle service contracts sold through independent marketers. to our knowledge and understanding, the inquiries have also been directed to other entities in the industry that provide comparable services in connection with the offering of such vehicle service contracts. we cannot predict the outcome of these inquiries, or the effect, if any, these inquiries or resulting litigation would have on our results of operations or financial condition. risks related to our common stock our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of factors beyond our control, which may cause volatility in the price of our shares to common stock. our common stock is listed on the nasdaq stock market under the symbol “afsi.” our performance, as well as the risks we have discussed throughout this report, government or regulatory action, tax laws, interest rates and general market conditions could have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock. some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; • changes to our earnings estimates or publications of research reports about us or the industry; • rising level of claims costs, changes in the frequency or severity of claims or new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurance company liability; • the financial stability of our third party reinsurers, changes in the level of reinsurance capacity, termination of reinsurance arrangements and changes in our capital capacity; • increase in market interest rates that may lead purchasers of common stock to demand a higher yield; 49     table of contents • changes in market valuations of other insurance companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; • fluctuations in interest rates or inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment that affects return on invested assets; • additions or departures of key personnel; • reaction to the sale or purchase of company stock by our principal stockholders or our executive officers; • changes in the economic environment in the markets in which we operate, including reduction in the business activities of our policyholders; • changes in tax law; • speculation in the press or investment community; and • general market, economic and political conditions. if our revenues and results of operations fluctuate as a result of one or more of these factors, the price of our common stock may be volatile. our principal stockholders have the ability to control our business which may be disadvantageous to other stockholders. based on the number of shares outstanding as of december 31, 2010, barry d. zyskind, michael karfunkel and george karfunkel, directly or indirectly, collectively own or control approximately 60% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. these stockholders may have interests that are different from other stockholders. in addition, we are a “controlled company” as defined in nasd rule 5615(c)(1). at present, a majority of the members of our board of directors are independent. as a controlled company, each of our board committees, except our audit committee, may include non-independent directors. the audit committee independence requirements imposed by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 apply to us, and we have organized our audit committee to meet these requirements. if we were to cease being a controlled company as a result of issuance of common stock by us or dispositions of common stock beneficially held by barry d. zyskind, michael karfunkel and george karfunkel, we would have to comply with the board committee independence requirements of the nasdaq stock market within specified periods, which would involve having an entirely independent compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committees within one year after ceasing to be a controlled company. if we are unable to achieve compliance with these requirements, our common stock could be de-listed from the nasdaq stock market. in addition, michael karfunkel and george karfunkel, through entities that each of them control, have entered into transactions with us and may from time to time in the future enter into other transactions with us. as a result, these individuals may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, their interest as our stockholders. such transactions may adversely affect our results or operations or financial condition. our principal stockholders could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger of our company even if the transaction could benefit other stockholders. moreover, this concentration of share ownership makes it impossible for other stockholders to replace directors and management without the consent of the controlling stockholders. in addition, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the price prospective buyers are willing to pay for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. 50     table of contents applicable insurance laws regarding the change of control of our company may impede potential acquisitions that our stockholders might consider to be desirable. we are subject to state and foreign statutes and regulations that generally require that any person or entity desiring to acquire direct or indirect control of any of our insurance company subsidiaries obtain prior regulatory approval. these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. our income is generated primarily from our insurance subsidiaries. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends is regulated and under certain circumstances, restricted, pursuant to applicable law. if our insurance subsidiaries could not pay dividends, we may not, in turn, be able to pay dividends to shareholders. in addition, the terms of our junior subordinated debentures and credit agreement, in some circumstances, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, and future borrowings may include prohibitions on dividends or other restrictions. for these reasons, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. as of december 31, 2010, our insurance subsidiaries collectively could pay dividends to us of $253 million without prior regulatory approval. any dividends paid by our subsidiaries would reduce their surplus. we have a history of paying dividends to our shareholders when sufficient cash is available. however, future cash dividends will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and other factors including the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, which ability is restricted in the manner discussed above. also, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends even if the necessary financial conditions are met and if sufficient cash is available for distribution. item 1b. unresolved