item 1a. risk factors   any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this form 10-k. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of those risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. the risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. see also “cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements” above.   the market prices of gold and silver are volatile. a decline in gold and silver prices could result in decreased revenues, decreased net income or losses and decreased cash flows, and may negatively affect our business.   gold and silver are commodities. their prices fluctuate and are affected by many factors beyond our control, including interest rates, expectations regarding inflation, speculation, currency values, central bank activities, governmental decisions regarding the disposal of precious metals stockpiles, global and regional demand and production, political and economic conditions and other factors. the prices of gold and silver, as quoted by the london bullion market association on december 31, 2012 and the close of 2011, were $1,664.00 and $1,574.50 per ounce for gold, respectively, and $29.95 and $28.18 per ounce for silver, respectively. the prices of gold and silver may decline in the future. a substantial or extended decline in gold or silver price would adversely impact our revenues, net income and cash flows, particularly in light of our current strategy of not engaging in hedging transactions with respect to gold or silver. in addition, sustained lower gold or silver prices may:     •   reduce revenues further through production declines due to cessation of the mining of deposits, or portions of deposits, that have become uneconomic at the then-prevailing gold or silver price;     •   reduce or eliminate the profit that we currently expect from ore stockpiles and ore on leach pads;     •   halt or delay the development of new projects;     •   cause us to recognize an impairment to the carrying values of mineral properties;     •   reduce funds available for exploration with the result that depleted reserves may not be replaced; and     •   reduce existing reserves by removing ores from reserves that can no longer be economically processed at prevailing prices.   the estimation of the ultimate recovery of gold and silver from the hycroft mine, although based on standard industry sampling and estimating methods, is subjective. actual recoveries may vary from our estimations.   our hycroft mine utilizes the heap leach process to extract gold and silver from ore. the heap leach process extracts gold and silver by placing ore on an impermeable pad and applying a dilute cyanide solution that dissolves a portion of the contained gold and silver, which are then recovered in metallurgical processes. we use   7 table of contents several integrated steps in the process of extracting gold and silver to estimate the metal content of ore placed on the leach pad. although we refine our estimates as appropriate at each step in the process, the final amounts are not determined until a third-party smelter converts the doré and determines final ounces of gold and silver available for sale. we then review this end result and reconcile it to the estimates we developed and used throughout the production process. based on this review, we adjust our estimation procedures when appropriate. due to the complexity of the estimation process and the number of steps involved, among other things, actual recoveries can vary from estimates, and the amount of the variation could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.   each of these factors not only applies to our current and future operations at the hycroft mine, but will also apply to our hasbrouck property and any future development of other properties not yet in production. in the case of mines that we may develop in the future, we will not have the benefit of actual experience in our estimates with respect to those mines, and there is a greater likelihood that actual results will vary from the estimates.   reserve and other mineralized material calculations are estimates only, and are subject to uncertainty due to factors including metal prices, inherent variability of the ore and recoverability of metal in the mining process.   the calculation of mineral reserves, other mineralized material and grading are estimates and depend upon geological interpretation and statistical inferences or assumptions drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which may prove to be unpredictable. there is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of mineral reserves and corresponding grades. until mineral reserves and other mineralized materials are actually mined and processed, the quantity of ore and grades must be considered as an estimate only. in addition, the quantity of mineral reserves and other mineralized materials and ore may vary depending on metal prices. any material change in the quantity of mineral reserves, other mineralized materials, mineralization, grade or stripping ratio may affect the economic viability of our properties. in addition, we can provide no assurance that gold recoveries or other metal recoveries experienced in small-scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production.   we may not achieve our production estimates and our adjusted cash costs for our operations may be higher than our estimates.   we prepare estimates of future production and adjusted cash costs for our operations. we develop our estimates based on, among other things, mining experience, reserve and other mineralized material estimates, assumptions regarding ground conditions and physical characteristics of ores (such as hardness and presence or absence of certain metallurgical characteristics) and estimated rates and costs of mining and processing. all of our estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. our actual production may be lower than our production estimates and our actual adjusted cash costs may be higher than our adjusted cash costs estimates. while we believe that our estimates are reasonable, actual results will vary and such variations may be material. these estimates are necessarily speculative in nature, and it may be the case that one or more of the assumptions underlying such projections and estimates may not materialize. investors in our common stock are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the projections and estimates set forth in this form 10-k.   our operations are subject to numerous governmental permits that are difficult to obtain and we may not be able to obtain or renew all of the permits we require, or such permits may not be timely obtained or renewed.   in the ordinary course of business we are required to obtain and renew governmental permits for our operations, including in connection with our mining and exploration plans at the hycroft mine and our exploration plan at our hasbrouck property. we also need additional governmental permits in order to complete our expansion of the hycroft mine operations, including without limitation, permits to operate the milling facility, construct the tailings impoundment and allow mining below the water table. obtaining or renewing the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving costly undertakings by us. the duration and success of our efforts to obtain and renew permits are contingent upon many variables not   8 table of contents within our control, including the interpretation of applicable requirements implemented by the permitting authority and intervention by third parties in any required environmental review. we may not be able to obtain or renew permits that are necessary to our operations on a timely basis or at all, and the cost to obtain or renew permits may exceed our estimates. failure to comply with the terms of our permits may result in injunctions, fines, suspension or revocation of permits and other penalties. we can provide no assurance that we have been, or will at all times, be in full compliance with all of the terms of our permits or that we have all required permits. the costs and delays associated with compliance with these permits and with the permitting process could delay or stop us from executing our hycroft mine expansion project, proceeding with the operation or development of a property or increase the costs of development or production and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.   we cannot be certain that our future exploration and development activities will be commercially successful.   substantial expenditures are required to further explore our hycroft and hasbrouck properties, to establish reserves and other mineralized materials through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal from the ore and, in the case of new properties or the expansion of our existing projects, to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. we cannot provide assurance that any reserves or other mineralized materials discovered will be in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that the funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. a number of factors, including costs, actual mineralization, consistency and reliability of ore grades and commodity prices, affect successful project development. the efficient operation of processing facilities, the existence of competent operational management, as well as the availability and reliability of appropriately skilled and experienced consultants also can affect successful project development. there can be no assurance that our exploration and development programs, including the advancement of the hycroft mine oxide operation, the hycroft milling feasibility study for the mill expansion project and the hasbrouck preliminary economic assessment, will result in economically viable mining operations or yield new mineral reserves or other mineralized materials.   our gold and silver production may decline, reducing our revenues and negatively impacting our business.   our future gold and silver production may decline as a result of an exhaustion of reserves and possible closure of mines. it is our business strategy to conduct gold and silver exploratory activities at the hycroft mine and the hasbrouck property. we may also consider from time to time the acquisition of gold and silver mining properties and businesses or reserves that possess minable ore reserves that are capable to become operational in the near future. we can provide no assurance that our gold and silver production in the future will not decline. accordingly, our revenues from the sale of gold and silver may decline, negatively affecting our results of operations.   cost estimates and timing of new projects are uncertain, which may adversely affect our expected production and profitability.   the capital expenditures and time required to develop and explore our properties, including the hycroft mine and the hasbrouck property, are considerable and changes in costs, construction schedules or both, can adversely affect project economics and expected production and profitability. there are a number of factors that can affect costs and construction schedules, including, among others:     •   availability of labor, energy, transportation, equipment, and infrastructure;     •   changes in input commodity prices and labor costs;     •   fluctuations in currency exchange rates;     •   availability and terms of financing;     •   changes in anticipated tonnage, grade and metallurgical characteristics of the ore to be mined and processed;   9 table of contents   •   recovery rates of gold and other metals from the ore;     •   difficulty of estimating construction costs over a period of years;     •   delays in completing any environmental review or in obtaining environmental or other government permits;     •   weather and severe climate impacts; and     •   potential delays related to social and community issues.   we currently recover gold and silver from oxide ores at the hycroft mine. the hycroft milling feasibility study on the expansion project primarily relates to the economic potential of recovering metals from the sulfide mineralization at the hycroft property. oxide heap leach mining and the processing of sulfide ore is uncertain and, therefore, the costs and timing of the commencement of sulfide operations at the hycroft mine could vary greatly from our estimates.   mining development, exploration, and processing operations pose risks and costs that may negatively impact our business.   mining development, exploration, and processing operations involve many hazards and uncertainties, including, among others:     •   unusual and unexpected rock formations or water conditions;     •   seismic activity;     •   metallurgical or other processing problems;     •   ground or slope failures;     •   industrial accidents;     •   environmental contamination or leakage;     •   fires;     •   flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions or other acts of nature;     •   organized labor disputes or work slow-downs;     •   mechanical equipment failure and facility performance problems; and     •   the availability of critical materials, equipment and skilled labor.   these occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, our properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, increased production costs, asset write downs, monetary losses and legal liability, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and adversely affect our projected development and production estimates.   we may be adversely affected by challenges relating to slope stability.   our open pit mines get deeper as we mine them, presenting certain geotechnical challenges including the possibility of slope failure. if we are required to decrease pit slope angles or provide additional road access to prevent such a failure, our stated reserves could be negatively affected. further, hydrological conditions relating to pit slopes, renewal of material displaced by slope failures and increased stripping requirements could also negatively affect our stated reserves. we have taken actions in order to maintain slope stability, but we cannot provide any assurances that we will not have to take additional action in the future or that our actions taken to date   10 table of contents will be sufficient. unexpected failure or additional requirements to prevent slope failure may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition, as well as have the effect of diminishing our stated ore reserves.   there are uncertainties as to title matters in the mining industry. any defects in such title could cause us to lose our rights in mineral properties and jeopardize our business operations.   our mineral properties consist of private mineral rights, leases covering private lands, leases of patented mining claims and unpatented mining claims. many of our mining properties in the united states are unpatented mining claims located on lands administered by the u.s. bureau of land management (“blm”), nevada state office to which we have only possessory title. because title to unpatented mining claims is subject to inherent uncertainties, it is difficult to determine conclusively ownership of such claims. these uncertainties relate to such things as sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper location and posting and marking of boundaries, and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from descriptions of record. we believe a substantial portion of all mineral exploration, development and mining in the united states now occurs on unpatented mining claims, and this uncertainty is inherent in the mining industry.   the present status of our unpatented mining claims located on public lands allows us the right to mine and remove valuable minerals, such as precious and base metals, from the claims conditioned upon applicable environmental reviews and permitting programs. we also are generally allowed to use the surface of the land solely for purposes related to mining and processing the mineral-bearing ores. however, legal ownership of the land remains with the united states. we remain at risk that the mining claims may be forfeited either to the united states or to rival private claimants due to failure to comply with statutory requirements. prior to 1994, a mining claim locator who was able to prove the discovery of valuable, locatable minerals on a mining claim, and to meet all other applicable federal and state requirements and procedures pertaining to the location and maintenance of federal unpatented mining claims, had the right to prosecute a patent application to secure fee title to the mining claim from the federal government. the right to pursue a patent, however, has been subject to a moratorium since october 1994, through federal legislation restricting the blm from accepting any new mineral patent applications. if we do not obtain fee title to our unpatented mining claims, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain compensation in connection with the forfeiture of such claims.   there may be challenges to title to the mineral properties in which we hold a material interest. if there are title defects with respect to any properties, we might be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property. also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert our management’s time from ongoing production, exploration and development programs.   legislation has been proposed that could, if enacted, significantly affect the cost of our operations on our unpatented mining claims.   members of the u.s. congress have repeatedly introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the mining law of 1872. such bills have proposed, among other things, to either eliminate or greatly limit the right to a mineral patent and to impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims. such proposed legislation could change the cost of holding unpatented mining claims and could significantly impact our ability to develop mineralized material on unpatented mining claims. a majority of our mining claims are on unpatented claims. although we cannot predict what legislated royalties might be, the enactment of these proposed bills could adversely affect the potential for development of our unpatented mining claims and the economics of our existing operating mines on federal unpatented mining claims. passage of such legislation could adversely affect our financial performance.   changes in environmental regulations could adversely affect our cost of operations or result in operational delays.   the regulatory environment in which we operate is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of   11 table of contents proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. new environmental laws and regulations or changes in existing environmental laws and regulations could have a negative effect on exploration activities, operations, production levels and methods of production. we can provide no assurance that future changes in environmental laws and regulations will not adversely affect our current operations or future projects. any changes to these laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and results of operations by, for example, requiring changes to operating constraints, technical criteria, fees or surety requirements.   our insurance may not cover all of the risks associated with our business.   mining, development, exploration and processing operations involve risks which could interrupt or impair our ability to operate as planned, including:     •   environmental contamination;     •   metallurgical and other processing problems;     •   organized labor disputes or work slow-downs;     •   mechanical equipment failure and facility performance problems; and     •   availability of critical materials, equipment and skilled labor.   we cannot be certain that our insurance will cover all of the risks associated with mining and processing or that we will be able to maintain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums, which may increase our costs and decrease our profitability. we could also become subject to liability for hazards against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure, such as business interruption insurance which we have elected not to obtain, because of high premium costs or commercial impracticality. such events could result in a prolonged interruption in operations that would have a negative effect on our ability to generate revenues, profits and cash flow. losses from such events may increase costs and decrease profitability.   changes in the cost or supply of energy or commodities used in operations may adversely affect the profitability of our operations and our financial condition.   our mining operations and exploration activities are intensive users of energy. our principal energy sources are electricity and diesel fuel. we rely upon third parties for our supply of energy resources consumed in our mining and exploration activities. energy prices can be affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including global and regional supply and demand, political and economic conditions, and applicable regulatory regimes. the prices of various sources of energy may increase significantly from current levels. an increase in energy prices could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   disruptions in the supply of our energy resources could temporarily impair our ability to produce gold and silver or delay our expansion projects. some of our mining operations and exploration projects are in remote locations requiring the building of power lines and long distance transmission of power. a disruption in the transmission of energy, inadequate energy transmission infrastructure or the termination of any of our energy supply contracts could interrupt our energy supply and adversely affect our operations or expansion projects.   our production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such as diesel fuel, lime, sodium cyanide and explosives. the prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control. increases in the price for materials consumed in our mining and production activities could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   12 table of contents environmental regulations could require us to make significant expenditures or expose us to potential liability.   to the extent we become subject to environmental liabilities, the payment of such liabilities or the costs that we may incur, including to remedy environmental pollution, would reduce funds otherwise available to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. if we are unable to fully remedy an environmental violation or release of hazardous substances, we might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy or corrective action. the environmental standards that may ultimately be imposed at a mine site can vary and may impact the cost of remediation. actual remedial costs may exceed the financial accruals that have been made for such remediation. the potential exposure may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   moreover, governmental authorities and private parties may bring lawsuits based upon damage to property or natural resources and injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our past and current operations, which could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, remediation costs, penalties, injunctive relief and other civil and criminal sanctions. substantial costs and liabilities, including those required to restore the environment after the closure of mines, are inherent in our operations. although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot provide any assurance that any such law, regulation, enforcement or private claim will not have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.   our exploration and development operations are subject to extensive environmental regulations, which could result in the incurrence of additional costs and operational delays.   all phases of our operations are subject to extensive federal and state environmental regulation, including those enacted under the following laws:     •   comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act;     •   the resource conservation and recovery act;     •   the clean air act;     •   the national environmental policy act;     •   the clean water act; and   •   the safe drinking water act.   these environmental regulations require us to obtain various operating permits, approvals and licenses and also impose standards and controls relating to exploration, development and production activities. for instance, we are required to hold a nevada reclamation permit with respect to the hycroft mine. this permit mandates concurrent and post-mining reclamation of mines and require the posting of reclamation bonds sufficient to guarantee the cost of mine reclamation. we have set up a provision for our reclamation bond at the hycroft mine. compliance with this and other federal and state regulations could result in delays in beginning or expanding operations, incurring additional costs for investigation or cleanup of hazardous substances, payment of penalties for non-compliance or discharge of pollutants, and post-mining closure, reclamation and bonding, all of which could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and results of operations.   regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.   a number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to various climate change interest groups and the potential impact of climate change. legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us, our venture partners and our suppliers, including costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring   13 table of contents and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. any adopted future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such regulations. given the emotion, political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change and how it should be dealt with, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or other companies in our industry could harm our reputation.   climate change could have an adverse impact on our cost of operations.   the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. these climate changes may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities, water shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures. these changes in climate could have an impact on the cost of production at our mines and adversely affect the financial performance of our operations.   a shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business.   we are dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out our mining exploration and development operations. the shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. such shortages could also result in increased construction costs and cause delays in expansion projects.   joint ventures and other partnerships may expose us to risks.   in the future, we may enter into joint ventures or other partnership arrangements with other parties in relation to the exploration, development and production of certain of the properties in which we have an interest. joint ventures can often require unanimous approval of the parties to the joint venture or their representatives for certain fundamental decisions such as an increase or reduction of registered capital, merger, division, dissolution, amendments of constituting documents, and the pledge of joint venture assets, which means that each joint venture party may have a veto right with respect to such decisions which could lead to a deadlock in the operations of the joint venture or partnership. further, we may be unable to exert control over strategic decisions made in respect of such properties, including our existing joint venture at our maverick springs property where we are a minority (45%) owner. any failure of such other companies to meet their obligations to us or to third parties, or any disputes with respect to the parties’ respective rights and obligations, could have a material adverse effect on the joint ventures or their properties and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial performance, and cash flows.   if we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to develop our business.   our development in the future will be highly dependent on the efforts of key management employees, specifically, robert buchan, our executive chairman, scott caldwell, our president and chief executive officer, stephen jones, our executive vice president and chief financial officer, randy buffington, our executive vice president and chief operating officer, and other key employees that we may hire in the future. although we have entered into employment agreements with mr. caldwell and mr. jones, we do not have and currently have no plans to obtain key man insurance with respect to any of our key employees. as well, we will need to recruit and retain other qualified managerial and technical employees to build and maintain our operations. if we are unable to successfully recruit and retain such persons, our development and growth could be significantly curtailed.   14 table of contents our reliance on third party contractors to conduct a significant portion of our operations and construction projects exposes us to risks.   we contract with third party contractors for a significant portion of our operations and construction projects, including the crushing facility, the mill, and other ongoing expansion projects. at december 31, 2012, approximately 273 people were working as contractors in support of our operations. as a result, our operations are subject to a number of risks, some of which are outside our control, including:     •   negotiating agreements with contractors on acceptable terms;     •   the inability to replace a contractor and its operating equipment in the event that either party terminates the agreement;     •   reduced control over those aspects of operations which are the responsibility of the contractor;     •   failure of a contractor to perform under its agreement;     •   interruption of operations or increased costs in the event that a contractor ceases its business due to insolvency or other unforeseen events;     •   failure of a contractor to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, to the extent it is responsible for such compliance; and     •   problems of a contractor with managing its workforce, labor unrest or other employment issues.   in addition, we may incur liability to third parties as a result of the actions of our contractors. the occurrence of one or more of these risks could decrease our gold and silver production, increase our adjusted cash costs and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.   to the extent that we seek to expand our operations and increase our reserves through acquisitions, we may experience issues in executing acquisitions or integrating acquired operations.   from time to time, we may examine opportunities to make selective acquisitions in order to expand our operations and reported reserves. the success of any acquisition would depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to:     •   identifying suitable candidates for acquisition and negotiating acceptable terms for any such acquisition;     •   obtaining approval from regulatory authorities and potentially our stockholders;     •   maintaining our financial and strategic focus and avoiding distraction of management during the process of integrating the acquired business; and     •   implementing our standards, controls, procedures and policies at the acquired business.   there can be no assurance that we will be able to conclude any acquisitions successfully, or that any acquisition will achieve the anticipated synergies or other positive results. any material problems that we encounter in connection with such an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.   some of our directors may have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies.   some of our directors are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies, or may be involved in related pursuits that could present conflicts of interest with their roles at allied nevada. in the event that any such conflict of interest arises, a director who has such a conflict is required to disclose the conflict to our board of directors (and any applicable committees), should abstain from voting on the matter and, in most cases, should leave the meeting while the remaining directors discuss and vote on such matter. in   15 table of contents appropriate cases, we will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which directors, or management, may have a conflict.   compliance with current and future government regulations may cause us to incur significant costs.   our operations are subject to extensive federal and state legislation governing matters such as mine safety, occupational health, labor standards, prospecting, exploration, production, exports, toxic and hazardous substances, explosives, management of natural resources, price controls, land use, water use, air emissions, waste disposal, environmental review and taxes. compliance with this and other legislation could require us to make significant financial outlays. the enactment of new legislation or more stringent enforcement of current legislation may increase costs, which could have a negative effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. we cannot make assurances that we will be able to adapt to these regulatory developments on a timely or cost-effective basis. violations of these laws, regulations and other regulatory requirements could lead to substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions, including possible shut-downs of the hycroft mine or future operations, as applicable.   our ability to find and acquire new mineral properties and our prospects for the future growth of our business are uncertain.   because mines have limited lives based on proven and probable ore reserves, we are continually seeking to replace and expand our ore reserves. identifying promising mining properties is difficult and speculative. furthermore, we encounter strong competition from other mining companies in connection with the acquisition of properties producing or capable of producing gold and silver. many of these companies have greater financial resources than we do. consequently, we may be unable to replace and expand current ore reserves through the acquisition of new mining properties or interests therein on terms we consider acceptable. as a result, our revenues from the sale of gold and silver may decline, resulting in lower income and reduced growth.   we do not currently use forward sale or other significant hedging arrangements to protect against gold and silver prices and commodity prices (other than related to a portion of our diesel costs) and, as a result, our operating results are exposed to the impact of any significant decrease in the price of gold or silver or any significant increase in commodity prices.   we do not currently enter into forward sales or other significant hedging arrangements to reduce the risk of exposure to volatility in commodity prices. accordingly, our future operations are exposed to the impact of any significant decrease in gold or silver prices and any significant increase in commodity prices. if such prices change significantly, we will realize reduced revenues and increased costs. while it is not our current intention to enter into forward sales or other significant hedging arrangements, we are not restricted from entering into such arrangements at a future date.   we face intense competition in the mining industry.   the mining industry is intensely competitive. as a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies with substantial capabilities and with greater financial and technical resources than ours, we may be unable to acquire additional attractive mining claims or financing on terms we consider acceptable, which may adversely impact our growth and development. this, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we also compete with other mining companies in the recruitment and retention of qualified managerial and technical employees. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain qualified employees, our exploration and development programs may be slowed down or suspended.   16 table of contents security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.   we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our employees, on our networks. the secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business.   we may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms or at all.   the exploration and development of our properties, including the advancement of the hycroft mine expansion project and the development of the hasbrouck property, as well as any acquisitions we may make, will require significant capital investment. failure to obtain sufficient financing may result in the delay or indefinite postponement of exploration activity, development or production on any of our properties or consummation of any acquisitions. we can provide no assurance that additional financing will be available at all or on terms we consider acceptable.   our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition.   we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2012, we had indebtedness of $525.2 million, including cdn $400.0 million aggregate principal of 8.75% senior unsecured notes due 2019 (“notes”) (which have been swapped to $400.4 million at 8.375% through a currency swap agreement), with an additional $120.0 million of unused commitments under our revolving credit facility. subject to the limits contained in the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility, the indenture governing our notes and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. our high level of debt could:     •   make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding debt;     •   require a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;     •   limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements;     •   increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;     •   expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, are at variable rates of interest;     •   limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete;     •   place us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and     •   increase our cost of borrowing.   any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt, and the price of our common stock.   17 table of contents in addition to the indenture governing our notes, certain of our capital lease obligations and the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of nearly all of our debt.   we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.   our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.   if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due.   in addition, we conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which in the future may not be guarantors of our indebtedness. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. while the indenture governing our notes limits the ability of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.   our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations.   if we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of our notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our revolving credit facility and capital leases could terminate their commitments to loan money, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.   18 table of contents the terms of the indenture governing our notes and the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility will restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions.   the indenture governing our notes and the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to:     •   incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness;     •   pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock;     •   prepay certain debt;     •   issue certain preferred stock or similar equity securities;     •   make loans and investments;     •   sell assets;     •   incur liens;     •   enter into transactions with affiliates;     •   enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; and     •   consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.   in addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet them.   a breach of the covenants or restrictions under the indenture governing our notes or under the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, including our capital lease obligations. in addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility would permit the lenders under our revolving credit facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our revolving credit facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. in the event our lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. as a result of these restrictions, we may be:     •   limited in how we conduct our business;     •   unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or     •   unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.   these restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our strategy. in addition, our financial results, our substantial indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of our financing.   our common stock has a limited trading history and the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely.   our common stock began trading in may 2007 and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will be sustained in the future. we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control including, but not limited to: fluctuations in the price of gold; announcements   19 table of contents by us or competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the shares of other companies in the resource sector; changes in general economic and/or political conditions; the arrival or departure of key personnel; and overall market fluctuations and general economic conditions. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.   future sales of our common stock in the public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings.   future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public or private markets, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. as of december 31, 2012, 89,734,112 shares of our common stock were outstanding. we cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, will have on the trading price of our common stock.   we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.   we have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. we intend to retain all of our earnings for the foreseeable future to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. as a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. our board of directors retains the discretion to change this policy.   anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and under delaware law could make a third party acquisition of the company difficult.   our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. these provisions include the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock and the ability of our board of directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval. in addition, as a delaware corporation, we are subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which generally prohibits a delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in section 203. collectively, these provisions could make a third party acquisition of the company difficult or could discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities.   item 1b. unresolved