item 1a. risk factors an investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this form 10-k before deciding to invest or to continue holding your investment in our common stock. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us or otherwise associated with an investment in our common stock. additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. we have attempted to identify the major factors that could cause differences between actual and planned or expected results. if any of the following risks actually happen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. see “note regarding forward-looking statements” above. the market prices of gold and silver are volatile. low gold and silver prices could result in decreased revenues, decreased net income or losses and decreased cash flows, and may negatively affect our business. gold and silver are commodities. their prices fluctuate and are affected by many factors beyond our control, including interest rates, expectations regarding inflation, speculation, currency values, central bank activities, governmental decisions regarding the disposal of precious metals stockpiles, global and regional demand and production, political and economic conditions and other factors. the prices of gold and silver on the london bullion market on december 31, 2011 were $1,531.00 per ounce for gold and $28.18 per ounce for silver. the prices of gold and silver may decline in the future. a substantial or extended decline in gold or silver price would adversely impact our revenues, net income and cash flows, particularly in light of our strategy of not engaging in hedging transactions with respect to gold. in addition, sustained lower gold or silver prices can:     •   reduce revenues further through production declines due to cessation of the mining of deposits, or portions of deposits, that have become uneconomic at the then-prevailing gold or silver price;     •   reduce or eliminate the profit that we currently expect from ore stockpiles and ore on leach pads;     •   halt or delay the development of new projects;     •   cause us to recognize an impairment to the carrying values of mineral properties;     •   reduce funds available for exploration with the result that depleted reserves may not be replaced; and     •   reduce existing reserves by removing ores from reserves that can no longer be economically processed at prevailing prices. the estimation of the ultimate recovery of gold and silver from the hycroft mine, although based on standard industry sampling and estimating methods is subjective. actual recoveries can be expected to vary from estimations. the hycroft mine utilizes the heap leach process to extract gold and silver from ore. the heap leach process extracts gold and silver by placing ore on an impermeable pad and applying a diluted cyanide solution that dissolves a portion of the contained gold and silver, which are then recovered in metallurgical processes. we use several integrated steps in the process of extracting gold and silver to estimate the metal content of ore placed on the leach pad. although we refine our estimates as appropriate at each step in the process, the final amounts are not determined until a third-party smelter converts the doré and determines final ounces of gold and silver available for sale. we then review this end result and reconcile it to the estimates we developed and used throughout the production process. based on this review, we adjust our estimation procedures when appropriate. due to the complexity of the estimation process and the number of steps involved, among other things, actual recoveries can vary from estimates, and the amount of the variation could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. each of these factors also applies to any future development of properties not yet in production. in the case of mines that we may develop in the future, we will not have the benefit of actual experience in our estimates with respect to those mines, and there is a greater likelihood that actual results will vary from the estimates. reserve and mineralized material calculations are estimates only, and are subject to uncertainty due to factors including metal prices, inherent variability of the ore and recoverability of metal in the mining process. the calculation of mineral reserves, mineralized material and grading are estimates and depend upon geological interpretation and statistical inferences or assumptions drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which may prove to be unpredictable. there is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of reserves, resources and corresponding grades. until reserves and mineralized materials are actually mined and processed, the quantity of ore and grades must be considered as an estimate only. in addition, the   8 table of contents quantity of reserves and mineralized materials and ore may vary depending on metal prices. any material change in the quantity of reserves, mineralized materials, mineralization, grade or stripping ratio may affect the economic viability of our properties. in addition, there can be no assurance that gold recoveries or other metal recoveries in small-scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production. our gold and silver production may decline, reducing our revenues and negatively impacting our business. our future gold and silver production may decline as a result of an exhaustion of reserves and possible closure of mines. it is our business strategy to conduct gold and silver exploratory activities at the hycroft mine and the hasbrouck property and to consider the acquisition of gold and silver mining properties and businesses or reserves that possess minable ore reserves and are expected to become operational in the near future. we can provide no assurance that our gold and silver production in the future will not decline. accordingly, our revenues from the sale of gold and silver may decline, negatively affecting our results of operations. our ability to find and acquire new mineral properties and our prospects for the future growth of our business are uncertain. because mines have limited lives based on proven and probable ore reserves, we are continually seeking to replace and expand our ore reserves. identifying promising mining properties is difficult and speculative. furthermore, we encounter strong competition from other mining companies in connection with the acquisition of properties producing or capable of producing gold and silver. many of these companies have greater financial resources than we do. consequently, we may be unable to replace and expand current ore reserves through the acquisition of new mining properties or interests therein on terms we consider acceptable. as a result, our revenues from the sale of gold and silver may decline, resulting in lower income and reduced growth. to the extent that we seek to expand our operations and increase our reserves through acquisitions, we may experience issues in executing acquisitions or integrating acquired operations. from time to time, we may examine opportunities to make selective acquisitions in order to expand our operations and reported reserves. the success of any acquisition would depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to:     •   identifying suitable candidates for acquisition and negotiating acceptable terms for any such acquisition;     •   obtaining approval from regulatory authorities and potentially the company’s stockholders;     •   maintaining our financial and strategic focus and avoiding distraction of management during the process of integrating the acquired business; and     •   implementing our standards, controls, procedures and policies at the acquired business. there can be no assurance that we will be able to conclude any acquisitions successfully, or that any acquisition will achieve the anticipated synergies or other positive results. any material problems that we encounter in connection with such an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. compliance with current and future government regulations may cause us to incur significant costs. our operations are subject to extensive federal and state legislation governing matters such as mine safety, occupational health, labor standards, prospecting, exploration, production, exports, toxic substances, explosives, management of natural resources, price controls, land use, water use, air emissions, waste disposal, environmental review and taxes. compliance with this and other legislation could require us to make significant financial outlays. the enactment of new legislation or more stringent enforcement of current legislation may increase costs, which could have a negative effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. we cannot make assurances that we will be able to adapt to these regulatory developments on a timely or cost-effective basis. violations of these laws, regulations and other regulatory requirements could lead to substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions, including possible shut-downs of the hycroft mine or future operations, as applicable. our operations are subject to numerous governmental permits that are difficult to obtain and we may not be able to obtain or renew all of the permits we require, or such permits may not be timely obtained or renewed. in the ordinary course of business we are required to obtain and renew governmental permits for our operations, including in connection with our mining and exploration plans at the hycroft mine and our exploration plan at hasbrouck. obtaining or renewing the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving costly undertakings by us. the duration and success of our efforts to obtain and renew permits are contingent upon many variables not within our control, including the interpretation of applicable requirements implemented by the permitting authority and intervention by third parties in any required environmental review. we may not be able to obtain or renew permits that are necessary to our operations on a timely basis or at all, and the cost to obtain or renew permits may exceed our estimates. failure to comply with the terms of our permits may result in injunctions, fines, suspension or revocation of permits and other penalties. there can be no assurance that we have been or will at all times be in full compliance with all of the terms of our permits or that we have all required permits. the costs and delays associated   9 table of contents with compliance with these permits and with the permitting process could stop us from proceeding with the operation or development of a property or increase the costs of development or production and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we may not achieve our production estimates and our operating costs may be higher than our estimates. we prepare estimates of future production and operating costs for our operations. we develop our estimates based on, among other things, mining experience, reserve and mineralized material estimates, assumptions regarding ground conditions and physical characteristics of ores (such as hardness and presence or absence of certain metallurgical characteristics) and estimated rates and costs of mining and processing. all of our estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. our actual production may be lower than our production estimates and our actual operating costs may be higher than our operating cost estimates. we cannot be certain that our future exploration and development activities will be commercially successful. substantial expenditures are required to further explore our hycroft and hasbrouck properties, to establish reserves and mineralized materials through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal from the ore and, in the case of new properties or the expansion of our existing projects, to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. we cannot provide assurance that any reserves or mineralized materials discovered will be in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that the funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. a number of factors, including costs, actual mineralization, consistency and reliability of ore grades and commodity prices, affect successful project development. the reactivation and efficient operation of processing facilities, the existence of competent operational management, as well as the availability and reliability of appropriately skilled and experienced consultants also can affect successful project development. there can be no assurance that our exploration and development programs, including the advancement of the hycroft oxide operation, the feasibility study for the hycroft milling project and the preliminary economic assessment of hasbrouck, will result in economically viable mining operations or yield new mineral reserves or mineralized materials. cost estimates and timing of new projects are uncertain. the capital expenditures and time required to develop and explore our properties, including the hycroft and hasbrouck properties, are considerable and changes in costs, construction schedules or both, can affect project economics and expected profitability. there are a number of factors that can affect costs and construction schedules, including, among others:     •   availability of labor, power, transportation, equipment, and infrastructure;     •   changes in input commodity prices and labor costs;     •   fluctuations in currency exchange rates;     •   availability and terms of financing;     •   changes in anticipated tonnage, grade and metallurgical characteristics of the ore to be mined and processed;     •   recovery rates of gold and other metals from the ore;     •   difficulty of estimating construction costs over a period of years;     •   delays in completing any environmental review or in obtaining environmental or other government permits;     •   weather and severe climate impacts; and     •   potential delays related to social and community issues. the positive feasibility study on the hycroft mill expansion project announced by us in october 2011 primarily relates to the economic potential of the sulfide mineralization at the hycroft property and is not part of, and should be distinguished from, the current oxide heap leach mining operation. we do not currently use forward sale or other hedging arrangements to protect against low commodity prices and, as a result, our operating results are exposed to the impact of any significant drop in commodity prices. we do not currently enter into forward sales or other hedging arrangements to reduce the risk of exposure to volatility in commodity prices. accordingly, our future operations are exposed to the impact of any significant decrease in commodity prices. if such prices decrease significantly, we will realize reduced revenues. while it is not our current intention to enter into forward sales or other hedging arrangements, we are not restricted from entering into such arrangements at a future date.   10 table of contents mining development, exploration, and processing operations pose risks and costs that may negatively impact our business. mining development, exploration, and processing operations involve many hazards and uncertainties, including, among others:     •   unusual and unexpected rock formations or water conditions;     •   seismic activity;     •   ground or slope failures or underground cave-ins;     •   industrial accidents;     •   fires;     •   flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions or other acts of nature;     •   organized labor disputes or work slow-downs;     •   mechanical equipment failure and facility performance problems; and     •   the availability of critical materials, equipment and skilled labor. these occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, our properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, increased production costs, asset write downs, monetary losses and legal liability, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our insurance may not cover all of the risks associated with our business. mining, development, exploration and processing operations involve risks which could interrupt or impair our ability to operate as planned, including:     •   environmental contamination;     •   metallurgical and other processing problems;     •   organized labor disputes or work slow-downs;     •   mechanical equipment failure and facility performance problems; and     •   availability of critical materials, equipment and skilled labor. we cannot be certain that our insurance will cover all of the risks associated with mining and processing or that we will be able to maintain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums, which may increase our costs and decrease our profitability. we could also become subject to liability for hazards against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or commercial impracticality. such events could result in a prolonged interruption in operations that would have a negative effect on our ability to generate revenues, profits and cash flow. losses from such events may increase costs and decrease profitability. we may be adversely affected by challenges relating to slope stability. our open-pit mines get deeper as we mine them, presenting certain geotechnical challenges including the possibility of slope failure. if we are required to decrease pit slope angles or provide additional road access to prevent such a failure, our stated reserves could be negatively affected. further, hydrological conditions relating to pit slopes, renewal of material displaced by slope failures and increased stripping requirements could also negatively affect our stated reserves. we have taken actions in order to maintain slope stability, but we cannot provide any assurances that we will not have to take additional action in the future or that our actions taken to date will be sufficient. unexpected failure or additional requirements to prevent slope failure may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition, as well as have the effect of diminishing our stated ore reserves. we face intense competition in the mining industry. the mining industry is intensely competitive. as a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies with substantial capabilities and with greater financial and technical resources than ours, we may be unable to acquire additional attractive mining claims or financing on terms we consider acceptable, which may adversely impact our growth and development. this, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we also compete with other mining companies in the recruitment and retention of qualified managerial and technical employees. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain qualified employees, our exploration and development programs may be slowed down or suspended. we may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms or at all. the exploration and development of our properties, including the advancement of the hycroft milling project and the development of the hasbrouck project, as well as any acquisitions we may make, will require significant capital investment. failure to obtain sufficient financing may result in the delay or indefinite postponement of exploration activity, development or production on any of our properties or consummation of any acquisitions. there can be no assurance that additional financing will be available at all or on terms we consider acceptable.   11 table of contents environmental regulations could require us to make significant expenditures or expose us to potential liability. to the extent we may become subject to environmental liabilities, the payment of such liabilities or the costs that we may incur to remedy environmental pollution would reduce funds otherwise available to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. if we are unable to fully remedy an environmental problem, we might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy. the environmental standards that may ultimately be imposed at a mine site impact the cost of remediation and may exceed the financial accruals that have been made for such remediation. the potential exposure may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. moreover, governmental authorities and private parties may bring lawsuits based upon damage to property and injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our past and current operations, which could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, remediation costs, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions. substantial costs and liabilities, including for restoring the environment after the closure of mines, are inherent in our operations. although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot provide any assurance that any such law, regulation, enforcement or private claim will not have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our exploration and development operations are subject to extensive environmental regulations, which could result in the incurrence of additional costs and operational delays. all phases of our operations are subject to extensive federal and state environmental regulation, including:     •   comprehensive environmental, response, compensation, and liability act (cercla);     •   the federal resource conservation and recovery act (rcra);     •   the clean air act (caa);     •   the national environmental policy act (nepa);     •   the clean water act (cwa); and     •   the safe drinking water act (sdwa). these environmental regulations require us to obtain various operating approvals and licenses and also impose standards and controls relating to exploration, development and production activities. compliance with federal and state regulations could result in delays in beginning or expanding operations, incurring additional costs for cleanup of hazardous substances, payment of penalties for discharge of pollutants, and post-mining reclamation and bonding, all of which could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and results of operations. changes in environmental regulations could adversely affect our cost of operations or result in operational delays. the regulatory environment in which we operate is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. new environmental laws and regulations or changes in existing environmental laws and regulations could have a negative effect on exploration activities, operations, production levels and methods of production. there is no assurance that future changes in environmental laws and regulations will not adversely affect our projects. any changes to these laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and results of operations by, for example, requiring changes to operating constraints, technical criteria, fees or surety requirements. there are uncertainties as to title matters in the mining industry. any defects in such title could cause us to lose our rights in mineral properties and jeopardize our business operations. our mineral properties consist of private mineral rights, leases covering state and private lands, leases of patented mining claims and unpatented mining claims. many of our mining properties in the united states are unpatented mining claims located on lands administered by the u.s. bureau of land management (blm), nevada state office to which we have only possessory title. because title to unpatented mining claims is subject to inherent uncertainties, it is difficult to determine conclusively ownership of such claims. these uncertainties relate to such things as sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper location and posting and marking of boundaries, and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from descriptions of record. since a substantial portion of all mineral exploration, development and mining in the united states now occurs on unpatented mining claims, this uncertainty is inherent in the mining industry. the present status of our unpatented mining claims located on public lands allows us the right to mine and remove valuable minerals, such as precious and base metals, from the claims conditioned upon applicable environmental reviews and permitting programs. we also are allowed to use the surface of the land solely for purposes related to mining and processing the mineral-bearing ores. however, legal ownership of the land remains with the united states. we remain at risk that the mining claims may be forfeited either to the united states or to rival private claimants due to failure to comply with statutory requirements. prior to 1993, a mining claim locator who was able to prove the discovery of valuable, locatable minerals on a mining claim, and to meet all other applicable   12 table of contents federal and state requirements and procedures pertaining to the location and maintenance of federal unpatented mining claims, had the right to prosecute a patent application to secure fee title to the mining claim from the federal government. the right to pursue a patent, however, has been subject to a moratorium since october 1993, through federal legislation restricting the blm from accepting any new mineral patent applications. if we do not obtain fee title to our unpatented mining claims, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain compensation in connection with the forfeiture of such claims. there may be challenges to title to the mineral properties in which we hold a material interest. if there are title defects with respect to any properties, we might be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property. also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert our management’s time from ongoing exploration and development programs. legislation has been proposed that could, if enacted, significantly affect the cost of our operations on our unpatented mining claims. members of the u.s. congress have repeatedly introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the mining law of 1872. such bills have proposed, among other things, to either eliminate or greatly limit the right to a mineral patent and to impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims. such proposed legislation could change the cost of holding unpatented mining claims and could significantly impact our ability to develop mineralized material on unpatented mining claims. a majority of our mining claims are on unpatented claims. although we cannot predict what legislated royalties might be, the enactment of these proposed bills could adversely affect the potential for development of our unpatented mining claims and the economics of our existing operating mines on federal unpatented mining claims. passage of such legislation could adversely affect our financial performance. regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. a number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to various climate change interest groups and the potential impact of climate change. legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us, our venture partners and our suppliers, including costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. any adopted future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such regulations. given the emotion, political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change and how it should be dealt with, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or other companies in our industry could harm our reputation. climate change could have an adverse impact on our cost of operations. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. these may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities, water shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures. these changes in climate could have an impact on the cost of production at our mines and adversely affect the financial performance of our operations. a shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. we are dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out our mining exploration and development operations. the shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. if we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to establish and develop our business. our development in the future will be highly dependent on the efforts of key management employees, namely, robert buchan, our executive chairman, scott caldwell, our president and chief executive officer, hal kirby, our executive vice president and chief financial officer, and other key employees that we may hire in the future. although we have entered into employment agreements with key employees, we do not have and currently have no plans to obtain key man insurance with respect to any of our key employees. as well, we will need to recruit and retain other qualified managerial and technical employees to build and maintain our operations. if we are unable to successfully recruit and retain such persons, our development and growth could be significantly curtailed. some of our directors may have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. some of our directors are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies, or may be involved in related pursuits that could present conflicts of interest with their roles at allied nevada. in the event that any such conflict of interest   13 table of contents arises, a director who has such a conflict is required to disclose the conflict at a meeting of the directors of the company and to abstain from voting for or against approval of any matter in which such director may have a conflict. in appropriate cases, we will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which directors, or management, may have a conflict. future sales of our common stock in the public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public or private markets, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. as of february 23, 2012, 89,650,988 shares of our common stock were outstanding. we cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, will have on the trading price of our common stock. we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. we have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. we intend to retain all of our earnings for the foreseeable future to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. as a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. our board of directors retains the discretion to change this policy. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and under delaware law could make a third party acquisition of the company difficult. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. these provisions include the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock and the ability of our board of directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval. in addition, as a delaware corporation, we are subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which generally prohibits a delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in section 203. collectively, these provisions could make a third party acquisition of the company difficult or could discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that have increased both our compliance costs and the risk of noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. we are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of us and canadian governmental and self-regulated organizations, including the us securities and exchange commission, the canadian securities administrators, the nyse amex, the toronto stock exchange, and the financial accounting standards board. these rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many new requirements have been created in response to laws enacted by congress, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. for example, on july 21, 2010, congress passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. our efforts to comply with the dodd-frank act and other new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. joint ventures and other partnerships may expose us to risks. in the future, we may enter into joint ventures or other partnership arrangements with other parties in relation to the exploration, development and production of certain of the properties in which we have an interest. joint ventures can often require unanimous approval of the parties to the joint venture or their representatives for certain fundamental decisions such as an increase or reduction of registered capital, merger, division, dissolution, amendments of constituting documents, and the pledge of joint venture assets, which means that each joint venture party may have a veto right with respect to such decisions which could lead to a deadlock in the operations of the joint venture or partnership. further, we may be unable to exert control over strategic decisions made in respect of such properties. any failure of such other companies to meet their obligations to us or to third parties, or any disputes with respect to the parties’ respective rights and obligations, could have a material adverse effect on the joint ventures or their properties and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial performance, cash flows and the price of the common shares.   item 1b. unresolved