item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business our operating results may fluctuate from period to period due to many factors, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. our periodic operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include, among others: • a deterioration in general demand for electronic products, particularly the personal computing (pc) market, as a result of global or regional financial crises and associated macro-economic slowdowns, and/or the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry; • a deterioration in business conditions at our distributors and /or end customers; • adverse general economic conditions in the countries where our products are sold or used; • the emergence and growth of markets for products we are currently developing; • our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced products in a timely manner and the rate at which our new products replace declining orders for our older products; • the anticipation, announcement or introduction of new or enhanced products by us or our competitors; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures, including expenses related to the maintenance and expansion of our business operations and infrastructure; • the announcement of significant acquisitions, disposition or partnership arrangements; • changes in the utilization of our in-house manufacturing capacity; • supply and demand dynamics and the resulting price pressure on the products we sell; • the unpredictable volume and timing of orders, deferrals, cancellations and reductions for our products, which may depend on factors such as our end customers' sales outlook, purchasing patterns and inventory adjustments based on general economic conditions or other factors; • changes in the selling prices of our products and in the relative mix in the unit shipments of our products, which have different average selling prices and profit margins; • changes in costs associated with manufacturing of our products, including pricing of wafer, raw materials and assembly services; • our concentration of sales in consumer applications and changes in consumer purchasing patterns and confidence; and • the adoption of new industry standards or changes in our regulatory environment; any one or a combination of the above factors and other risk factors described in this section may cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period, making it difficult to predict our future performance. therefore, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. the decline of personal computing (“pc”) markets may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and our efforts to diversify our products may not be sufficient to mitigate the impact of the declining pc markets. a significant amount of our revenue is derived from sales of products in the pc markets such as notebooks, motherboards and notebook battery packs.  our revenue from the pc markets accounted for approximately 50.0%, 54.4% and 57.0% of our total revenue for the years ended 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the increasing popularity of smaller, mobile computing devices such as tablets and smartphones with touch interfaces is rapidly changing the pc markets both in the united states and abroad.  recently, we experienced a significant reduction in the demand for our products due to the declining pc markets, particularly from our distributors and customers in taiwan, which have negatively impacted our revenue and profitability. the decline of the pc markets may also adversely affect our ability to adjust inventory levels in response to the lower shipments, which may negatively impact our gross margins. during the quarter ended march 31, 2013, we recorded a non-cash, non-recurring inventory valuation charge of $5.7 million primarily related to excess and obsolete inventory consisting of  12 pc-related products that were not compatible with a particular oem's applications and were deemed not saleable. moreover, the continuing decline of the pc markets may reduce the capacity utilization of our manufacturing facilities or impair the value of our long-lived assets, including equipment and machinery used for the manufacturing and packaging of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. see the risk factor entitled “we may experience impairment of our long-lived assets, which would decrease our earnings and net worth” below. our diversification into different market segments may not materialize according to our expectations and may expose us to new risks and place significant strains on our management, operational, financial and other resources as part of the growth strategy to diversify our product portfolio and in response to the rapid decline of the pc markets, we have been developing new technologies and products designed to penetrate into other markets and applications, including power supplies, gaming consoles, smartphones, tablets, flat panel tvs, and industrial motor controls. we believe that this diversification strategy would mitigate the impact of reduced demand due to the declining pc markets. however, there is no guarantee that these diversification efforts will be successful. as a new entrant to some of these markets, we may face intense competition from existing and more established providers and encounter other unexpected difficulties, any of which may hinder or delay our efforts to achieve success. in addition, our new products may have long design and sales cycles, therefore if the rate of decline in the pc markets is faster than we expected, or if our diversification efforts fail to keep pace with the declining pc markets, we may not be able to alleviate its negative impact on our results of operations. our diversification into different market segments may place a significant strain on our management, operational, financial and other resources. to manage this diversification effectively, we will need to take various actions, including: • enhancing management information systems, including forecasting procedures; • further developing our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems and controls; • managing our working capital and sources of financing; • maintaining close coordination among our engineering, accounting, finance, marketing, sales and operations organizations; • retaining, training and managing our employee base; • enhancing human resource operations and improving employee hiring and training programs; • realigning our business structure to more effectively allocate and utilize our internal resources; • improving and sustaining our supply chain capability; and • managing both our direct and distribution sales channels in a cost-efficient and competitive manner. if we fail to implement or improve systems or controls or to manage any future growth and diversitication effectively, our business could suffer. our revenue may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to ordering patterns from our distributors and seasonality. demand for our products from our end customers fluctuates depending on their sales outlooks and market and economic conditions. accordingly, our distributors place purchase orders with us based on their forecasts of end customer demand. because these forecasts may not be accurate, channel inventory held at our distributors may fluctuate significantly due to the difference between the forecasts and actual demand. as a result, distributors adjust their purchase orders placed with us in response to changing channel inventory levels, as well as their assessment of the latest market demand trends. a significant decrease in our distributors' channel inventory in one period may lead to a significant rebuilding of channel inventory in subsequent periods, or vice versa, which may cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate significantly. in addition, because our power semiconductors are used in consumer electronics products, our revenue is subject to seasonality. our sales seasonality is affected by a number of factors, including global and regional economic conditions as well as the pc market conditions, revenue generated from new products, changes in distributor ordering patterns in response to channel inventory adjustments and end customer demand for our products and fluctuations in consumer purchase patterns prior to major holiday seasons. in recent year, broad fluctuations in the semiconductor markets and the global economic conditions, in particular the decline of the pc market conditions, have had a more significant impact on our results of operations, than seasonality, and have made it difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business.  13 if we are unable to introduce or develop new and enhanced products that meet or are compatible with our customer's product requirements in a timely manner, it may harm our business, financial position and operating results. our success depends upon our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that meet or are compatible with our customer's specifications, performance standards and other product requirements in a timely manner. the development of new and enhanced products involves highly complex processes, and at times we have experienced delays in the introduction of new products. successful product development and introduction of new products depends on a number of factors, including the accurate product specification; timely completion of design; achievement of manufacturing yields; timely response to changes in customers' product requirements; quality and cost-effective production; and effective marketing. since many of our products are designed for specific applications, we must frequently develop new and enhanced products jointly with our customers. if we are unable to develop or acquire new products that meet or are compatible with our customer's specification and other product requirements in a timely manner, we may lose revenue or market shares with our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and operating results. during the quarter ended march 31, 2013, we recorded a non-cash, non-recurring inventory valuation charge in the amount of $7.7 million for certain excess and obsolete inventory, consisting of products relating to pc applications, and to a lesser extent, products for power supplies.  approximately $5.7 million of the $7.7 million non-recurring inventory write-down was attributable to newly developed products for desktop pc applications for a major oem because these products were not compatible with its particular applications and were deemed not saleable. we have been working closely with the oem to address these issues and implement solutions to prevent future occurrences. while we have fully resolved this issue with the oem, similar product compatibility issues may arise with other products or oems, or that the solutions we implemented may not be fully effective in preventing future occurrences. our failure to prevent or mitigate product compatibility issues may adversely affect our ability to maintain revenue and market shares and harm our business, financial position and results of operations. we may not win sufficient designs, or our design wins may not generate sufficient revenue for us to maintain or expand our business. we invest significant resources to compete with other power semiconductor companies to obtain winning competitive bids for our products in selection processes, known as “design wins.” our effort to obtain design wins may detract us from or delay the completion of other important development projects, impair our relationships with existing end customers and negatively impact sales of products under development. in addition, we cannot be assured that these efforts would result in a design win, that our product would be incorporated into an end customer's initial product design, or that any such design win would lead to production orders and generate sufficient revenue. furthermore, even after we have qualified our products with a customer and made sales, subsequent changes to our products, manufacturing processes or suppliers may require a new qualification process, which may result in delay and excess inventory. if we cannot achieve sufficient design wins in the future, or if we fail to generate production orders following design wins, our ability to grow our business will be harmed. our success depends upon the ability of our oem end customers to successfully sell products incorporating our products. the consumer end markets, in particular the pc market, in which our products are used are highly competitive. our oem end customers may not successfully sell their products for a variety of reasons, including: • general global and regional economic conditions; • late introduction or lack of market acceptance of their products; • lack of competitive pricing; • shortage of component supplies; • excess inventory in the sales channels into which our end customers sell their products; • changes in the supply chain; and • changes as a result of regulatory restrictions applicable to china-exported products.  our success depends on the ability of our oem end customers to sell products incorporating our products. in addition, we have expanded our business model to include more oems in our customer base. the failure of our oem end customers to achieve or maintain commercial success for any reason could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.  14 we expect to incur significant fixed manufacturing costs in connection with the operation of our oregon fab, which may negatively impact our results of operations, and the operation of our own fabrication facility may subject us to additional risks and the need for additional capital expenditures.   the operation of our own fabrication facility requires significant fixed manufacturing cost. in order to manage the capacity of the wafer fabrication facility efficiently, we must perform a forecast of long-term market demand and general economic conditions for our products. because market conditions may vary significantly and unexpectedly, our forecast may change significantly at any time, and we may not be able to make timely adjustments to our fabrication capacity in response to these changes. during periods of continued decline in market demand, in particular the decline of the pc market, we may not be able to absorb the excess inventory and additional costs associated with operating the facility at higher capacity, which may adversely affect our operating results. similarly, during periods of unexpected increase in customer demand, we may not be able to ramp up production quickly to meet these demands, which may lead to the loss of significant revenue opportunities. the manufacturing processes of a fabrication facility are complex and subject to interruptions, and prior to the acquisition of the oregon fab, our experience in operating a wafer facility has been limited to active collaboration with third-party foundries. we may experience production difficulties, including lower manufacturing yields or products that do not meet our or our customers' specifications, and problems in ramping production and installing new equipment. these difficulties could result in delivery delays, quality problems and lost revenue opportunities. any significant quality problems could also damage our reputation with our customers and could take focus away from the development of new and enhanced products. these could have a significant negative impact on our financial results. in addition, semiconductor manufacturing has historically required an upgrading of process technology from time to time to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. accordingly, we may have to make substantial capital expenditures and install significant production capacity at our in-house fabrication facility to support new technologies and increased production volume, which may cause delay in our ability to deliver new products or negatively impact our results of operations. defects and poor performance in our products could result in loss of customers, decreased revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share, and we may face warranty and product liability claims arising from defective products. our products are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. products as complex as ours may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. errors, defects or poor performance can arise due to design flaws, defects in raw materials or components or manufacturing difficulties, which can affect both the quality and the yield of the product. it can also be potentially dangerous as defective power components, or improper use of our products by customers, may lead to power overloads, which could result in explosion or fire. as our products become more complex, we face higher risk of undetected defects, because our testing protocols may not be able to fully test the products under all possible operating conditions. in the past, we have experienced defects in our products and these products were returned to us and subsequently scrapped or sold at a discount. any actual or perceived errors, defects or poor performance in our products could result in the replacement or recall of our products, shipment delays, rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diversion of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts in order to address or remedy any defects and increases in customer service and support costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. furthermore, as our products are typically sold at prices much lower than the cost of the equipment or other devices incorporating our products, any defective, inefficient or poorly performing products, or improper use by customers of power components, may give rise to warranty and product liability claims against us that exceed any revenue or profit we receive from the affected products. historically, we have received claims from our customers for charges such as their labor and other costs replacing defective parts, their lost profit, and/or penalty. we could incur significant costs and liabilities if we are sued and if damages are awarded against us. there is no guarantee that our insurance policies will be available or adequate to protect against such claims. costs or payments we may make in connection with warranty and product liability claims or product recalls may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. if we do not forecast demand for our products accurately, we may experience product shortages, delays in product shipment, excess product inventory, or difficulties in planning expenses, which will adversely affect our business and financial condition. we manufacture our products according to our estimates of customer demand. this process requires us to make multiple forecasts and assumptions relating to the demand of our end customers, channel inventory, and general market conditions. because we sell most of our products to distributors, who in turn sell to our end customers, we have limited visibility as to end customer demand. furthermore, we do not have long-term purchase commitments from our distributors or end customers, and  15 our sales are generally made by purchase orders that may be cancelled, changed or deferred without notice to us or penalty. as a result, it is difficult to forecast future customer demand to plan our operations. the utilization of our manufacturing facilities and the provisions for inventory write-downs are important factors in our profitability. if we overestimate demand for our products, or if purchase orders are canceled or shipments delayed, we may have excess inventory, which may result in adjustments to our production plans. these adjustments to our productions may affect the utilization of our own wafer fabrication and packaging facilities. if we cannot sell certain portion of the excess inventory, it will affect our provisions for inventory write-downs. our inventory write-down provisions are subject to adjustment based on events that may not be known at the time the provisions are made, and such adjustments could be material. for example, during the quarter ended march 31, 2013, we recorded a non-cash, non-recurring inventory valuation charge of $5.7 million primarily related to excess and obsolete inventory consisting of pc-related products that were not compatible with a particular oem's applications and were deemed not saleable. we expect to record inventory write downs in the future in the normal course of our business. conversely, if we underestimate demand, we may not have sufficient inventory to meet end-customer demand, and we may lose market share and damage relationships with our distributors and end customers and we may have to forego potential revenue opportunities. obtaining additional supply in the face of product shortages may be costly or impossible, particularly in the short term, which could prevent us from fulfilling orders in a timely manner or at all. in addition, we plan our operating expenses, including research and development expenses, hiring needs and inventory investments, base in part on our estimates of customer demand and future revenue. if customer demand or revenue for a particular period is lower than we expect, we may not be able to proportionately reduce our fixed operating expenses for that period, which would harm our operating results for that period. we face intense competition and may not be able to compete effectively which could reduce our revenue and market share. the power semiconductor industry is highly competitive and fragmented. if we do not compete successfully against current or potential competitors, our market share and revenue may decline. our main competitors are primarily headquartered in the united states, japan, taiwan and europe. our major competitors for our power discretes include diodes incorporated, fairchild semiconductor international, inc., infineon technologies ag, international rectifier corporation, magnachip semiconductor corporation, on semiconductor corporation, renesas technology corp., stmicroelectronics n.v., toshiba corporation and vishay intertechnology, inc. our major competitors for our power ics include global mixed-mode technology inc., monolithic power systems, inc., richtek technology corp., semtech corporation and texas instruments inc. we expect to face competition in the future from our competitors, other manufacturers, designers of semiconductors and start-up semiconductor design companies. many of our competitors have competitive advantages over us, including: • significantly greater financial, technical, research and development, sales and marketing and other resources, enabling them to invest substantially more resources than us to respond to the adoption of new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements; • greater brand recognition and longer operating histories; • larger customer bases and longer, more established relationships with distributors or existing or potential end customers, which may provide them with greater reliability and information regarding future trends and requirements that may not be available to us; • the ability to provide greater incentives to end customers through rebates, and marketing development funds or similar programs; • more product lines, enabling them to bundle their products to offer a broader product portfolio or to integrate power management functionality into other products that we do not sell; and • captive manufacturing facilities, providing them with guaranteed access to manufacturing facilities in times of global semiconductor shortages. if we are unable to compete effectively for any of the foregoing or other reasons, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects will be harmed. we depend partly on third-party semiconductor foundries to manufacture our products and implement our fabrication processes, and any failure to maintain sufficient foundry capacity and control the cost of production could significantly delay our ability to ship our products, damage our relationships with customers, reduce our sales and increase expenses.  16 we have adopted a “fab lite” business model in which the allocation of our wafer production between in-house facility and third-party foundries may fluctuate from time to time. nevertheless, we expect to continue to rely in part on third party foundries to meet our wafer requirements. although we use several independent foundries, our primary third-party foundry is hhnec, which manufactured 37.7%, 49.9% and 68.7% of the wafers used in our products for the fiscal years ended june 30, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. we place our purchase orders with foundries based on sales forecasts for our products. if any third-party foundry does not provide competitive pricing or is not able to meet our required capacity for any reason, or if our business relationship with hhnec deteriorates, we may not be able to obtain the required capacity to manufacture our products timely or efficiently. if we cannot maintain sufficient capacity or control pricing with our existing third-party foundries, we may need to increase our own manufacturing capacity, and there is no assurance that we can ramp up the production of the oregon fab timely to meet the increased demand. if not, we may need to seek alternative foundries, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. in addition, the process for qualifying a new foundry is time consuming, difficult and may not be successful, particularly if we cannot integrate our proprietary process technology with the process used by the new foundry. using a foundry with which we have no established relationship could expose us to potentially unfavorable pricing, unsatisfactory quality or insufficient capacity allocation. in addition, even though we have been transferring more new product developments to our oregon fab, we still rely on third-party foundries significantly to effectively implement certain of our proprietary technology and processes and also require their cooperation in developing new fabrication processes. any failure to do so may impair our ability to introduce new products and on time delivery of wafers for our existing products. in order to maintain our profit margins and to meet our customer demand, we need to achieve acceptable production yields and timely delivery of silicon wafers. as is common in the semiconductor industry, we have experienced, and may experience from time to time, difficulties in achieving acceptable production yields and timely delivery from third-party foundry vendors. minute impurities in a silicon wafer can cause a substantial number of wafers to be rejected or cause numerous die on a wafer to be defective. low yields often occur during the production of new products, the migration of processes to smaller geometries or the installation and start up of new process technologies.   we face a number of other significant risks associated with outsourcing fabrication, including: • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control and production costs; • discretion of foundries to reduce deliveries to us on short notice, allocate capacity to other customers that may be larger or have long-term customer or preferential arrangements with foundries that we use; • unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies; • limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us; • damage to equipment and facilities, power outages, equipment or materials shortages that could limit manufacturing yields and capacity at the foundries; • potential unauthorized disclosure or misappropriation of intellectual property, including use of our technology by the foundries to make products for our competitors; • financial difficulties and insolvency of foundries; and • acquisition of foundries by third parties.  any of the foregoing risks could delay shipment of our products, result in higher expenses and reduced revenue, damage our relationships with customers and otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results. our operation of two in-house packaging and testing facilities are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business and financial results. we have two in-house packaging and testing facilities located in shanghai, china that handle most of our packaging and testing requirements. the operation of a high-volume packaging and testing facility and implementation of our advanced packaging technology are complex and demand a high degree of precision and may require modification to improve yields and product performance. we have committed substantial resources to ensure that our packaging and testing facilities operates  17 efficiently and successfully, including the acquisition of equipment and raw materials, and training and management of a large number of technical personnel and employees. if we are unable to utilize our in-house facilities at a desirable level of production, our gross margin and results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, semiconductor packaging and testing services historically required frequent upgrades of equipment to remain competitive as new and enhanced packaging and testing technologies are developed to allow manufacturing of smaller, thinner, cooler and more efficient power semiconductor devices. accordingly, we may have to invest substantial capital expenditures in our in-house packaging and testing facilities, which may adversely impact our financial conditions and cash requirements. similarly, if any equipment and machinery become obsolete faster than we expected, we may incur impairment charges which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, the operation of our packaging and testing facilities is subject to a number of risks, including the following: • unavailability of equipment, whether new or previously owned, at acceptable terms and prices; • facility equipment failure, power outages or other disruptions; • shortage of raw materials, including packaging substrates, copper, gold and molding compound; • failure to maintain quality assurance and remedy defects and impurities; • changes in the packaging requirements of customers; and • our limited experience in operating a high-volume packaging and testing facility.  any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our capacity to package and test our products, which could delay shipment of our products, result in higher expenses, reduce revenue, damage our relationships with customers and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. our reliance on distributors to sell a substantial portion of our products subjects us to a number of risks. we sell a substantial portion of our products to distributors, who in turn sell to our end customers. our distributors typically offer power semiconductor products from several different companies, including our direct competitors. the distributors assume collection risk and provide logistical services to end customers, including stocking our products. two distributors, wpg and promate, collectively accounted for 66.0%, 64.9% and 67.3% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended june 30, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. our agreement with frontek technology corporation, a member of wpg, was renewed in july 2010 with a one-year term and will be automatically renewed for each one-year period continuously unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions in the agreement. our agreement with promate was renewed in july 2010 with a five-year term and thereafter will be automatically renewed for each one-year period continuously unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions in the agreement. we believe that our success will continue to depend upon these distributors. our reliance on distributors subjects us to a number of risks, including: • write-downs in inventories associated with stock rotation rights and increases in provisions for price adjustments granted to certain distributors; • potential reduction or discontinuation of sales of our products by distributors; • failure to devote resources necessary to sell our products at the prices, in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; • focusing their sales efforts on products of our competitors; • dependence upon the continued viability and financial resources of these distributors, some of which are small organizations with limited working capital and all of which depend on general economic conditions and conditions within the semiconductor industry; • dependence on the timeliness and accuracy of shipment forecasts and resale reports from our distributors; • management of relationships with distributors, which can deteriorate as a result of conflicts with efforts to sell directly to our end customers; and • termination of our agreements with distributors which are generally terminable by either party on short notice. if any significant distributor becomes unable or unwilling to promote and sell our products, or if we are not able to renew our contracts with the distributors on acceptable terms, we may not be able to find a replacement distributor on reasonable terms or at all and our business could be harmed.  18 we have made and may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies, assets or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired assets or businesses, incurring additional debt, assuming contingent liabilities or diluting our existing shareholders. in order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions, mergers and alliances that involve significant risks and uncertainties. successful acquisitions and alliances in the semiconductor industry are difficult to accomplish because they require, among other things, efficient integration and aligning of product offerings and manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts. the difficulties of integration and alignment may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, the complexity of the technologies being integrated and aligned and the necessity of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. in addition, we may also issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or alliances, which could be dilutive to existing shareholders. we may also incur debt or assume contingent liabilities in connection with acquisitions and alliances, which could impose restrictions on our business operations and harm our operating results. if we are unable to obtain raw materials in a timely manner or if the price of raw materials increases significantly, production time and product costs could increase, which may adversely affect our business. our fabrication and packaging processes depend on raw materials such as silicon wafers, gold, copper, molding compound, petroleum and plastic materials and various chemicals and gases. from time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. if the prices of these raw materials rise significantly, we may be unable to pass on the increased cost to our customers. our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or at reasonable price. in addition, from time to time, we may need to reject raw materials that do not meet our specifications, resulting in potential delays or declines in output. furthermore, problems with our raw materials may give rise to compatibility or performance issues in our products, which could lead to an increase in customer returns or product warranty claims. errors or defects may arise from raw materials supplied by third parties that are beyond our detection or control, which could lead to additional customer returns or product warranty claims that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operations may be delayed or interrupted and our business may be adversely affected as a result of our efforts to comply with environmental regulations applicable to our in-house wafer manufacturing, packaging and testing facility. our in-house manufacturing operations, including wafer manufacturing, packaging and testing, are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, handling, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials. see “item 1. business - environmental matters.” compliance with environmental regulations could require us to acquire expensive pollution control equipment or to incur other substantial expenses or investigate and remediate contamination at our current facilities. any failure, or any claim that we have failed, to comply with these regulations could cause delays in our production and capacity expansion and affect our public image, either of which could harm our business. in addition, any failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to substantial fines or other liabilities, result in the suspension of our operating permit, or require us to terminate or adversely modify our in-house manufacturing operations. we may not be able to accurately estimate provisions at fiscal period end for price adjustment and stock rotation rights under our agreements with distributors, and our failure to do so may impact our operating results. we sell a majority of our products to distributors under arrangements allowing price adjustments and returns under stock rotation programs, subject to certain limitations. as a result, we are required to estimate allowances for price adjustments and stock rotation for our products as inventory at distributors at each reporting period end. our ability to reliably estimate these allowances enables us to recognize revenue upon delivery of goods to distributors instead of upon resale of goods by distributors to end customers. we estimate the allowance for price adjustment based on factors such as distributor inventory levels, pre-approved future distributor selling prices, distributor margins and demand for our products. our estimated allowances for price adjustments, which we offset against accounts receivable from distributors, were $13.2 million and $16.3 million at june 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively. our accruals for stock rotation are estimated based on historical returns and individual distributor agreement, and stock rotation rights, which are recorded as accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, are contractually capped based on  19 the terms of each individual distributor agreement. our estimated liabilities for stock rotation at june 30, 2013 and 2012 were $ 1.6 million and $2.0 million, respectively. our estimates for these allowances and accruals may be inaccurate. if we subsequently determine that any allowance and accrual based on our estimates is insufficient, we may be required to increase the size of our allowances and accrual in future periods, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we may experience impairment of our long-lived assets, which would decrease our earnings and net worth. accounting rules require that long-lived assets be tested for impairment under certain circumstances. the outcome of impairments testing could result in the write-down of all or a portion of the value of the long-lived assets. a write-down of our assets would, in turn, reduce our earnings and net worth. during the quarter ended march 31, 2013, and as a result of the accelerated declining pc markets, we recorded a non-cash charge of approximately $2.6 million in long-lived assets primarily related to our packaging service machinery and equipment for our pc related products (see "impairment of long-lived assets" in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 of part ii of this annual report for more details). it is possible that we may be required to incur additional write-downs in the future, resulting in significant reductions to our earnings and net worth. factors which may lead to additional material impairment of our long-lived assets include, but are not limited to:   • a significant decrease in the market value of the asset such as manufacturing and packaging equipment; • a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which the asset group is being used, or in its physical condition; • a significant adverse change in the legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, including an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; • an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct the asset; • a current period operating or cash flow loss or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the asset's use; and • a current expectation that more-likely-than-not, the asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. furthermore, our impairment review requires us to make estimates and projections regarding, but not limited to, future cash flows. if these estimates or projections change or proved to be incorrect, we may be required to record additional impairment charges on our long-lived assets. we depend on the continuing efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel, and if we lose a member of our senior management or are unable to successfully retain, recruit and train key personnel, our ability to develop and market our products could be harmed. our success depends upon the continuing services of members of our senior management team and various engineering and other technical personnel. in particular, our engineers and other technical personnel are critical to our future technological and product innovations. our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent and the pool of qualified candidates is limited. we have entered into employment agreements with certain senior executives, but we do not have employment agreements with most of our employees. many of these employees could leave our company with little or no prior notice and would be free to work for a competitor. if one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all and other senior management may be required to divert attention from other aspects of our business. in addition, we do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any member of our management team or other key personnel. the loss of any of these individuals or our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers and others, could adversely affect our product introductions, overall business growth prospects, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. our management may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may decline to issue an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or may issue a report that is qualified or adverse. during the course of the initial evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify control deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate prior to the date of our first assessment of internal control over financial reporting. our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of  20 our financial statements or prevent fraud, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our shares. failure to protect our patents and our other proprietary information could harm our business and competitive position. our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. we rely on a combination of patent, copyright (including mask work protection), trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements, license agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights, which may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. as of june 30, 2013, we owned 329 issued u.s. patents expiring between 2015 and 2031 and had 209 pending patent applications with the united states patent and trademark office. in addition, we own additional patents and have filed patent applications in several jurisdictions outside of the u.s, including china, taiwan, japan and korean.  our patents and patent applications may not provide meaningful protection from our competitors, and there is no guarantee that patents will be issued from our patent applications. the status of any patent or patent application involves complex legal and factual determinations and the breadth of a claim is uncertain. in addition, our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not succeed due to difficulties and risks associated with: • policing any unauthorized use of or misappropriation of our intellectual property, which is often difficult and costly and could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us; • others independently developing similar proprietary information and techniques, gaining authorized or unauthorized access to our intellectual property rights, disclosing such technology or designing around our patents; • the possibility that any patent or registered trademark owned by us may not be enforceable or may be invalidated, circumvented or otherwise challenged in one or more countries and the rights granted thereunder may not provide competitive advantages to us; • uncertainty as to whether patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all; and • intellectual property laws and confidentiality protections, which may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, including, for example, in china where enforcement of china intellectual property-related laws has historically been ineffective, primarily because of difficulties in enforcement and low damage awards.  we also rely on customary contractual protections with our customers, suppliers, distributors, employees and consultants, and we implement security measures to protect our trade secrets. we cannot assure you that these contractual protections and security measures will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our suppliers, employees or consultants will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of such contracts. in addition, we have a number of third-party patent and intellectual property license agreements, one of which requires us to make ongoing royalty payments. in the future, we may need to obtain additional licenses, renew existing license agreements or otherwise replace existing technology. we are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed or the technology can be replaced on acceptable terms, or at all. intellectual property disputes could result in lengthy and costly arbitration, litigation or licensing expenses or prevent us from selling our products. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we or our customers may receive claims of infringement from time to time or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties that may cover some of our technology, products and services or those of our end customers. the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights which has resulted in protracted and expensive arbitration and litigation for many companies. patent litigation has increased in recent years owing to increased assertions made by intellectual property licensing entities or non-practicing entities and increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in our markets. any litigation or arbitration regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. we have in the past and may from time to time in the future become involved in litigation that requires our management to commit significant resources and time. for example, in 2007, we commenced a patent litigation with fairchild semiconductor international, inc., or fairchild, in which we filed infringement claims against fairchild, and fairchild responded by filing infringement counterclaims against us. the litigation was vigorously prosecuted by both parties and diverted the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel before it was settled in october 2008. the settlement included a cross-license agreement between the parties. in december 2006, we initiated an arbitration proceeding against siliconix incorporated, or siliconix, to recover certain quarterly  21 royalty payments under our agreement with siliconix, and siliconix responded by filing a counterclaim against us for royalty payments under the agreement. the arbitration proceeding was settled in 2008. we incurred a total of $8.2 million of legal costs relating to these two intellectual property disputes.  in addition, as part of our strategy to diversify our serviceable markets, we recently launched several key product families and technologies to enable high efficiency power conversion solutions and we plan to develop and commercialize new products in other power semiconductor markets. our entry into the commercial markets for high-voltage power semiconductors and other markets as a result of our diversification strategy may subject us to additional and increased risk of disputes or litigation relating to these products. because of the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of litigation generally, any intellectual property arbitration or litigation involves significant risks. any claim of intellectual property infringement against us may require us to: • pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement; • refrain from further development or sale of our products; • attempt to develop non-infringing technology, which may be expensive and time consuming, if possible at all; • enter into costly royalty or license agreements that might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; • cross-license our technology with a competitor to resolve an infringement claim, which could weaken our ability to compete with that competitor; and • indemnify our distributors, end customers, licensees and others from the costs of and damages of infringement claims by our distributors, end customers, licensees and others, which could result in substantial expenses for us and damage our business relationships with them. any intellectual property claim or litigation could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. global or regional economic, political and social conditions could adversely affect our business and operating results. external factors such as potential terrorist attacks, acts of war, financial crises, such as the global or regional economic recession, or geopolitical and social turmoil in those parts of the world that serve as markets for our products could have significant adverse effect on our business and operating results in ways that cannot presently be predicted. any future economic downturn or recession in the global economy in general and, in particular, on the economies in china, taiwan and other countries where we market and sell our products, will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. recently, we experienced a significant reduction in the demand for our products due to the declining pc markets, particularly from our distributors and customers in taiwan, which have negatively impacted our revenue and profitability. our business operations could be significantly harmed by natural disasters or global epidemics. we have research and development facilities located in taiwan and the silicon valley in northern california. historically, these regions have been vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, fires and floods, which may disrupt the local economy and pose physical risks to our property. we also have sales offices located in taiwan and japan where similar natural disasters and other risks may disrupt the local economy and pose physical risks to our operations. we are not currently covered by insurance against business disruption caused by earthquakes. in addition, we currently do not have redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. in the event of such an occurrence, our business would suffer. our business could be adversely affected by epidemics or outbreaks such as avian flu or h1n1 flu, also known as swine flu. an outbreak of avian flu or h1n1 flu in the human population, or another similar health crisis, could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in asia. moreover, any related disruptions to transportation or the free movement of persons could hamper our operations and force us to close our offices temporarily. the occurrence of any of the foregoing or other natural or man-made disasters could cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, operations, distribution channels, markets and customers, which could result in significant delays in deliveries or substantial shortages of our products and adversely affect our business results of operations, financial condition or prospects. our insurance may not cover all losses, including losses resulting from business disruption or product liability claims.  22 we have limited product liability, business disruption or other business insurance coverage for our operations. in addition, we do not have any business insurance coverage for our operations to cover losses that may be caused by litigation or natural disasters. any occurrence of uncovered loss could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. our international operations subject our company to risks not faced by companies without international operations. we have adopted a global business model under which we maintain significant operations and facilities through our subsidiaries located in the u.s., china, taiwan and hong kong. our main research and development center is located in silicon valley, and our manufacturing and supply chain is located in china. we also have sales offices and customers throughout asia, the u.s. and elsewhere in the world. the following are some of the risks inherent in doing business on an international level that may not be applicable to domestic companies: • economic and political instability; • transportation and communication delays; • coordination of operations through multiple jurisdictions and time zones; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • trade restrictions, changes in laws and regulations relating to, amongst other things, import and export tariffs, taxation, environmental regulations, land use rights and property; and • the laws of, including tax laws, and the policies of the u.s. toward, countries in which we operate.   we are subject to the risk of increased income taxes and changes in existing tax rules. we conduct our business in multiple jurisdictions, including hong kong, macau, the u.s., china, taiwan, south korea and japan. any of these jurisdictions may assert that we have unpaid taxes. our effective tax rates have fluctuated significantly in recent years. our effective tax rate was -254.2%, 21.7% and 6.5% for the fiscal years ended june 30, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. any tax rate changes in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate could result in adjustments to our deferred tax assets, if applicable, which would affect our effective tax rate and results of operations. we base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. however, our tax position is subject to review and possible challenge by tax authorities and to possible changes in law, which may have a retroactive effect. in particular, various proposals over the years have been made to change certain u.s. tax laws relating to foreign entities with u.s. connections. in addition, the u.s. government has proposed various other changes to the u.s. international tax system, certain of which could adversely impact foreign-based multinational corporate groups, and increased enforcement of u.s. international tax laws. it is possible that these or other changes in the u.s. tax laws could significantly increase our u.s. income tax liability in the future. in addition, our subsidiaries provide products and services to, and may from time to time undertake certain significant transactions with, us and other subsidiaries in different jurisdictions. we have adopted transfer pricing arrangements for transactions among our subsidiaries. related party transactions are generally subject to close review by tax authorities, including requirements that transactions be priced at arm's length and be adequately documented. we have not been subject to any tax audit or challenge by any tax authorities with respect to any tax position taken during the past three fiscal years. if any of these tax authorities were successful in challenging our transfer pricing policies or other tax judgments, our income tax expense may be adversely affected and we could also be subject to interest and penalty charges which may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. the imposition of u.s. corporate income tax on our bermuda parent and non-u.s. subsidiaries could adversely affect our results of operations. we believe that our bermuda parent and non-u.s. subsidiaries each operate in a manner that they would not be subject to u.s. corporate income tax because they are not engaged in a trade or business in the united states. nevertheless, there is a risk that the u.s. internal revenue service may successfully assert that our bermuda parent and non-u.s. subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the united states. if our bermuda parent and non-u.s. subsidiaries were characterized as being so engaged, we would be subject to u.s. tax at regular corporate rates on our income that is effectively connected with u.s. trade or business, plus an additional 30% “branch profits” tax on the dividend equivalent amount, which is generally effectively connected income with certain adjustments, deemed withdrawn from the united states. any such tax could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  23 we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse u.s. federal income tax consequences for u.s. holders. based on the current and anticipated valuation of our assets and the composition of our income and assets, we do not expect to be considered a passive foreign investment company, or pfic, for u.s. federal income tax purposes for the foreseeable future. however, we must make a separate determination for each taxable year as to whether we are a pfic after the close of each taxable year and we cannot assure you that we will not be a pfic for our 2013 taxable year or any future taxable year. under current law, a non-u.s. corporation will be considered a pfic for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets, generally based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year, is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. pfic status depends on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets, including, among others, a pro rata portion of the income and assets of each subsidiary in which we own, directly or indirectly, at least 25% by value of the subsidiary's equity interests, from time to time. because we currently hold and expect to continue to hold a substantial amount of cash or cash equivalents, and because the calculation of the value of our assets may be based in part on the value of our common shares, which may fluctuate considerably given that market prices of technology companies historically often have been volatile, we may be a pfic for any taxable year. if we were treated as a pfic for any taxable year during which a u.s. holder held common shares, certain adverse u.s. federal income tax consequences could apply for such u.s. holder. the disclosure requirements under the new “conflict minerals” provisions of the dodd-frank act could increase our costs and limit the supply of certain metals used in our products and affect our reputation with customers and shareholders. under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, as amended, or the dodd-frank act, the sec adopted new disclosure requirements for public companies using certain minerals and metals, known as “conflict minerals”, in their products.  under these rules, we are required to perform due diligence and disclose our efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals from the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries.   these conflict minerals are commonly used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices.  as a result of these new regulations, we expect to incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the conflict minerals used in our products.  these new requirements could also adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of such minerals as used in the manufacture of our products, and the pool of suppliers who provide "conflict free" metals may be limited.  as a result, we may not be able to obtain materials for our products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. in addition, since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of all metals used in our products and confirm that they are “conflict free,” which may adversely affect our reputations with our customers and shareholders. risks related to our industry the average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross margins. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, the average selling price of a particular product has historically declined significantly over the life of the product. in the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. we expect that we will have to similarly reduce prices in the future for older generations of products. reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could also impact our average selling prices to all customers. a decline in average selling prices would harm our gross margins for a particular product. if not offset by sales of other products with higher gross margins, our overall gross margins may be adversely affected. our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs and developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis, with higher selling prices or gross margins. we may be adversely affected by the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry. our industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change such as the introduction of smartphones and tablets that contributed to the decline in the pc market, product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, uncertain product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. the industry has, from time to time, experienced significant and sometimes prolonged, downturns, and often connected with or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. these downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. any future  24 downturns, in particular the pc markets, may reduce our revenue and result in us having excess inventory. by contrast, any upturn in the semiconductor industry could result in increased competition for access to limited third-party foundry and packaging and testing capacity, which could prevent us from benefiting from such an upturn or reduce our profit margins. changes in industry standards, technology, customer requirements and government regulation could limit our ability to sell our products. the semiconductor industry is characterized by changing demand for new and advanced functions, long design and sales cycles, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, intense competition, evolving industry standards and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. changes in industry standards, or the development of new industry standards, or, when applicable, government approval or disapproval of industry standards may make our products obsolete or negate the cost advantages we believe we have in our products. we may be required to invest significant effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products in order to address relevant standards, technological developments, customer requirements or regulations but may not have the financial resources to respond to these changes effectively or in a timely manner. any inability to meet these standards, regulations and requirements could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. risks related to doing business in china china's economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business and growth. our financial results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by the economy in china. a slowdown of economic growth in china or other adverse developments could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. the china economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • higher level of government involvement; • early stage of development of a market-oriented economy; • rapid growth rate; • higher level of control over foreign currency exchange; and • less efficient allocation of resources.  the chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. although in recent years the china government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises, the china government continues to retain significant control over the business and productive assets in china. any changes in china's government policy or china's political, economic and social conditions, or in relevant laws and regulations, may adversely affect our current or future business, results of operation or financial condition. these changes in government policy may be implemented through various means, including changes in laws and regulations, implementation of anti-inflationary measures, changes in the tax rate or taxation system and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and imports. furthermore, given china's largely export-driven economy, any changes in the economies of the china's principal trading partners and other export-oriented nations may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. our ability to successfully expand our business operations in china depends on a number of factors, including macroeconomic and other market conditions, and credit availability from lending institutions. in response to the recent global and chinese economic recession, the china government has promulgated several measures aimed at expanding credit and stimulating economic growth. we cannot assure you that the various macroeconomic measures, monetary policies and economic stimulus package adopted by the china government to guide economic growth will be effective in maintaining or sustaining the growth rate of the chinese economy. if measures adopted by the china government fail to achieve further growth in the chinese economy, it may adversely affect our growth, business strategies and operating results. changes in china's laws, legal protections or government policies on foreign investment in china may harm our business. our business and corporate transactions are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in china as well as laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. these laws and regulations frequently change, and their interpretation and enforcement involves uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to us. regulations  25 and rules on foreign investments in china impose restrictions on the means that a foreign investor like us may apply to facilitate corporate transactions we may undertake. in addition, the chinese legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all, that may have a retroactive effect. as a result we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. if any of our past operations are deemed to be non-compliant with chinese law, we may be subject to penalties and our business and operations may be adversely affected. for instance, under the catalogue for the guidance of foreign investment industries, some industries are categorized as sectors which are encouraged, restricted or prohibited for foreign investment. as the catalogue for the guidance of foreign investment industries is updated every few years, there can be no assurance that the china government will not change its policies in a manner that would render part or all of our business to fall within the restricted or prohibited categories. if we cannot obtain approval from relevant authorities to engage in businesses which become prohibited or restricted for foreign investors, we may be forced to sell or restructure a business which has become restricted or prohibited for foreign investment. furthermore, the china government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. in particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. if we are forced to adjust our corporate structure or business as a result of changes in government policy on foreign investment or changes in the interpretation and application of existing or new laws, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be harmed. moreover, uncertainties in the chinese legal system may impede our ability to enforce contracts with our business partners, customers and suppliers, or otherwise pursue claims in litigation to recover damages or loss of property, which could adversely affect our business and operations. limitations on our ability to transfer funds to our china subsidiaries could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations, make investments that could benefit our businesses and otherwise fund and conduct our business. the transfer of funds from us to our china subsidiaries, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration with or approval by the china's governmental authorities, including the state administration of foreign exchange, or safe, or the relevant examination and approval authority. our subsidiaries may also experience difficulties in converting our capital contributions made in foreign currencies into rmb due to changes in the china's foreign exchange control policies. therefore, it may be difficult to change capital expenditure plans once the relevant funds have been remitted from us to our china subsidiaries. these limitations and the difficulties our china subsidiaries may experience on the free flow of funds between us and our china subsidiaries could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market situations in a timely manner. china's currency exchange control and government restrictions on investment repatriation may impact our ability to transfer funds outside of china. a significant portion of our business is conducted in china where the currency is the renminbi. regulations in china permit foreign owned entities to freely convert the renminbi into foreign currency for transactions that fall under the “current account,” which includes trade related receipts and payments, interest and dividends. accordingly, our chinese subsidiaries may use renminbi to purchase foreign exchange for settlement of such “current account” transactions without pre-approval. however, pursuant to applicable regulations, foreign‑invested enterprises in china may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with chinese accounting standards and regulations. in calculating accumulated profits, foreign investment enterprises in china are required to allocate at least 10% of their accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds, including mandated employee benefits funds, unless these reserves have reached 50% of the registered capital of the enterprises. other transactions that involve conversion of renminbi into foreign currency are classified as “capital account” transactions; examples of “capital account” transactions include repatriations of investment by or loans to foreign owners, or direct equity investments in a foreign entity by a china domiciled entity. “capital account” transactions require prior approval from china's state administration of foreign exchange (safe) or its provincial branch to convert a remittance into a foreign currency, such as u.s. dollars, and transmit the foreign currency outside of china. as a result of these and other restrictions under prc laws and regulations, our china subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to the parent; such restricted portion amounted to approximately $85.9 million, or 30.5% of our total consolidated net assets as of june 30, 2013. we have no assurance that the relevant chinese governmental authorities in the future will not limit further or eliminate the ability of our china subsidiaries to purchase foreign currencies and transfer such funds to us to meet our liquidity or other business needs. any inability to access funds in china, if and when needed for use by the company outside of china, could have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity and our business. controversies affecting china's trade with the united states could harm our business.  26 while china has been granted permanent most favored nation trade status in the u.s. through its entry into the world trade organization, controversies between the united states and china may arise that threaten the trading relationship between the two countries. at various times during recent years, the united states and china have had disagreements over political and economic issues. in addition, disagreements between the united states and china with respect to their political, military or economic policies toward taiwan may contribute to further controversies. these controversies and trade frictions could have a material adverse effect on our business by, among other things, making it more difficult for us to coordinate our operations between the united states and china or causing a reduction in the demand for our products by customers in the united states or china. relations between taiwan and china could negatively affect our business, financial condition and operating results and, therefore, the market value of our common shares. taiwan has a unique international political status. china does not recognize the sovereignty of taiwan. although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between taiwan and china, relations have often been strained. a substantial number of our key customers and some of our essential sales and engineering personnel are located in taiwan, and we have a large number of operational personnel and employees located in china. therefore, factors affecting military, political or economic relationship between china and taiwan could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. risks related to our corporate structure and our common shares our share price may be volatile and you may be unable to sell your shares at or above the purchase price, if at all. our common shares began trading on the nasdaq global market in april 2010. limited trading volumes and liquidity may limit the ability of shareholders to purchase or sell our common shares in the amounts and at the times they wish. in addition, the financial markets in the united states and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and market prices of technology companies have been and continue to be extremely volatile. the trading price of our common shares on the nasdaq global market ranged from a low of $7.02 to high of $17.91 since commencement of the public trading of our common shares on april 29, 2010. volatility in the price of our shares may be caused by factors outside our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating results. the market price for our common shares may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • general economic, industry, regional and global market conditions, including the economic conditions of specific market segments for our products; • our failure to meet analysts' expectations, including expectation regarding our revenue, gross margin and operating expenses; • changes in financial estimates and outlook by securities research analysts; • our ability to increase our gross margin; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • announcement of acquisition and major corporate transactions; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • our ability to enter into new market segments, gain market share, diversify our customer base and successfully secure manufacturing capacity; • announcements regarding intellectual property litigation involving us or our competitors; • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; • additions or departures of key personnel; • announcement of sales of our securities by us or by our major shareholders; • general economic or political conditions in china; and • and other factors.  27  in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in such company's share price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. these market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our shares if securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common shares or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, the trading price of our common shares could decline. the market price of our common shares is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. there is no guarantee that these analysts will understand our business and results, or that their reports will be accurate or correctly predict our operating results or prospects. if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the market price of our common shares or its trading volume to decline. moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrade our common shares or if our operating results or prospects do not meet their expectations, the market price of our common shares could decline. anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. certain provisions in our bye-laws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. in addition, by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of our board of directors, these provisions also may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team. these provisions include: • the ability of our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of our preferred shares and to issue the preferred shares without shareholder approval; • advance notice requirements for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at shareholder meetings; and • the requirement to remove directors by a resolution passed by at least two-thirds of the votes cast by the shareholders having a right to attend and vote at the shareholder meeting. these provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if the third-party's offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. insiders have substantial control over us, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares. our chief executive officer, certain members of our management and directors, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 21% of our outstanding common shares as of june 30, 2013. as a result, these shareholders will be able to exert significant control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us. this concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and may reduce the trading price of our shares. furthermore, the interests of these insiders could conflict with the interests of our other shareholders and, accordingly, any of them may take actions that favor their own interests and which may not be in the best interests of our other shareholders. these actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. we may need additional capital, and the sale of additional common shares or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. we believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. we may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. if our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. the sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. the incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. we cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all.  28 item 1b.      unresolved