item 1a.    risk factors you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this report before investing in our common stock. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in such a case, you may lose all or part of your investment. the risks described below are not the only we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to the oil and gas industry and our business drilling, exploring for and producing oil and gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our drilling, exploration and production activities. these activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in economic oil and gas production or increases in reserves. many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including:     •   decline in oil and gas prices;     •   inadequate capital resources;   14 table of contents   •   limited transportation services and infrastructure to deliver the oil and gas we produce to market;     •   unavailability or high cost of drilling and completion equipment, services or materials, including water, sand or other materials needed for hydraulic fracturing;     •   compliance with governmental regulations, which may include limitations on hydraulic fracturing or the discharge of greenhouse gases;     •   inability to attract and retain qualified personnel;     •   unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents;     •   lack of acceptable prospective acreage;     •   adverse weather conditions;     •   surface access restrictions;     •   title problems; and     •   mechanical difficulties. oil and gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil or gas prices could significantly affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure requirements and financial commitments. our revenues, profitability and cash flow depend substantially upon the prices and demand for oil and gas. the markets for these commodities are volatile, and even relatively modest drops in prices can affect significantly our financial results and impede our growth. prices for oil and gas fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as:     •   domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas;     •   domestic and foreign consumer demand for oil and gas;     •   overall united states and global economic conditions;     •   commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability and the availability of refining capacity;     •   price and availability of alternative fuels;     •   price and quantity of foreign imports;     •   domestic and foreign governmental regulations;     •   political conditions in or affecting other gas producing and oil producing countries;     •   the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls;     •   weather conditions, including unseasonably warm winter weather and tropical storms; and     •   technological advances affecting oil and gas consumption. further, oil and gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. because 39% of our estimated proved reserves as of december 31, 2011, were gas reserves, our financial results are also sensitive to movements in gas prices. recent gas prices have been low, and we expect low gas prices to continue. in 2011, nymex natural gas prices dropped from a high of $4.85 per mmbtu to a low of $2.99 per mmbtu.   15 table of contents the results of higher investment in the exploration for and production of oil and gas and other factors, such as global economic and financial conditions discussed below, may cause the price of oil and gas to fall. lower oil and gas prices may not only cause our revenues to decrease but also may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. substantial decreases in oil and gas prices would render uneconomic some or all of our drilling locations. this may result in our having to impair our estimated proved reserves and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, if oil, ngl or gas prices significantly decline for an extended period of time, we may, among other things, be unable to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future debt or obtain additional capital on attractive terms, all of which can affect the value of our common stock. future economic conditions in the u.s. and international markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the u.s. and other world economies continue to experience the effects of a global recession and credit market crisis. more volatility may occur before a sustainable growth rate is achieved either domestically or globally. even if such growth rate is achieved, such a rate may be lower than the u.s. and international economies have experienced in the past. global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including fossil fuels. a lower, future economic growth rate will result in decreased demand for our oil, ngl and gas production and lower commodity prices, which will reduce our revenues, cash flows from operations and our profitability. our future reserve and production growth is highly dependent on the success of our wolffork oil shale resource play, which has a limited operational history and is subject to change. we began drilling wells in the wolffork play only recently. the wells that have been drilled or recompleted in these areas represent a very small sample of our large acreage position, and we cannot assure you that our new horizontal or vertical wells or recompletions of existing wells will be successful. as of december 31, 2011, we had proved reserves of 24.2 mmboe attributable to this play. accordingly, we have limited information on the amount of reserves that will ultimately be recovered from our wolffork wells. our drilling plans in the wolffork are flexible and depend on a number of factors, including the extent to which our initial pilot wells are successful. the determination of whether we continue to drill prospects in the wolffork will, among other things, depend on any one or a combination of the following factors:     •   our ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation for the wolffork play;     •   the extent of our success in drilling and completing horizontal wells;     •   our ability to control costs and manage drilling and completion risks; and     •   the costs and availability of drilling and completion services and equipment, particularly fracture stimulation services, equipment and materials. we continue to gather data about our prospects in the wolffork play, and it is possible that additional information may cause us to change our drilling schedule or determine that prospects in some portion of our acreage position should not be developed at all. our business requires significant capital expenditures and we may not be able to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all. our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. for example, according to our year-end 2011 reserve report, the estimated capital required to develop our current proved oil and gas reserves is $626 million. historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations, borrowings under our credit facility and public equity financings. future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, including the production from existing wells, prices of oil,   16 table of contents gas and ngls and our success in developing and producing new reserves. we do not expect our cash flow from operations to be sufficient to cover our current expected capital expenditure budget and we may have limited ability to obtain the additional capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on favorable terms or at all. the failure to obtain additional financing could cause us to scale back our exploration and development operations, which in turn could lead to a decline in our oil and gas production and reserves, and in some areas a loss of properties. market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder our access to oil, ngl and gas markets or delay our production or sales. market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and gas processing and transportation services may hinder our access to oil and gas markets or delay our production or sales. although currently we control the gathering systems for our operations in the permian basin, we do not have such control over the regional or downstream pipelines in and out of the permian basin. the availability of a ready market for our oil, ngl and gas production depends on a number of factors, including market demand and the proximity of our reserves to pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. in addition, the amount of oil, ngls and gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to maintenance, excessive pressure, ability of downstream processing facilities to accept unprocessed gas, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. the curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases we are provided with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. as a result, we may not be able to sell, or may have to transport by more expensive means, the oil, ngl and gas that we produce, or we may be required to shut in oil or gas wells or delay initial production until the necessary gathering and transportation systems are available. any significant curtailment in gathering system, transportation, pipeline capacity or significant delay in construction of necessary gathering and transportation facilities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, materials, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our drilling and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. during these periods, the costs and delivery times of equipment, oilfield services and supplies are substantially greater. in addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling and completion crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. increasing levels of exploration and production will increase the demand for oilfield services, and the costs of these services may increase, while the quality of these services may suffer. our primary area of operation, the permian basin, continues to experience increased demand for drilling rigs, fracture stimulation crews, materials and services, and the availability of such crews, materials and services has been severely restricted. if the availability of equipment, crews, materials and services in the permian basin remains particularly severe, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in the permian basin. competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have resources that are greater than ours. we operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. many of our competitors are major and large independent oil and gas companies that possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. our ability to acquire additional prospects and discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties,   17 table of contents consummate transactions and hire and retain qualified personnel in a highly competitive environment. also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and gas industry. larger competitors may be better able to withstand sustained periods of unsuccessful drilling and absorb the burden of changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. we may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing oil, ngls and gas, attracting and retaining qualified personnel and raising additional capital. we are subject to complex governmental laws and regulations that may adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. our oil and gas drilling, production and gathering operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. to operate in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. we may incur substantial costs in order to comply with these existing laws and regulations. in addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations apply to our operations. such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations, including any evolving interpretation and enforcement by government authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see “business — regulation” for a further description of the laws and regulations that affect us. federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could stop or delay drilling projects and result in materially increased costs and additional operating restrictions. hydraulic fracturing is a practice that is used to stimulate production of oil and gas from tight formations, such as shale rock. the process involves the injection of water, sand and chemical additives under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. nearly all of our proved non-producing and proved undeveloped reserves associated with future drilling and recompletion projects, or approximately 62% of our total estimated proved reserves as of december 31, 2011, will require hydraulic fracturing. see item 1. “ business — hydraulic fracturing” for a discussion of the importance of hydraulic fracturing to our business, and item 1. “ business — regulation — hydraulic fracturing” for a discussion of regulatory developments regarding hydraulic fracturing. if these or any other new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to drill and produce from as well as make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings. in addition, if hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level, fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, plugging and abandonment requirements and also to permitting delays and increases in costs. these developments, as well as new laws or regulations, could cause us to incur substantial compliance costs, and compliance or the consequences of failure to comply by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we are unable to use hydraulic fracturing in completing our wells or the hydraulic fracturing process becomes prohibited or significantly regulated or restricted, we could lose the ability to drill and complete the projects for our proved reserves, and maintain our current leasehold acreage, which would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and operating results. our ability to produce oil and gas economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our hydraulic fracturing operations or are unable to dispose of or recycle the water we use at a reasonable cost and in accordance with applicable environmental laws, rules and regulations. the hydraulic fracturing process that we use to produce oil and gas from the wolffork oil shale play in the permian basin requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. our inability to secure sufficient   18 table of contents amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in our operations, could adversely impact our operations in this region. moreover, new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and gas. compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements for the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of our wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or cessation of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, and all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of ghgs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and gas we produce. both houses of congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs, and some states have already taken measures to reduce emissions of ghgs, primarily through the planned development of ghg emission inventories and/or regional ghg cap and trade programs. most of these cap and trade programs require either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall ghg emission reduction goal is achieved. these allowances are expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. in addition, in december 2009, the epa determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other ghgs present an endangerment to human health and the environment, because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. these findings by the epa allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal clean air act. in response to its endangerment finding, the epa recently adopted two sets of rules regarding possible future regulation of ghg emissions under the clean air act, one of which purports to regulate emissions of ghgs from motor vehicles and the other of which would regulate emissions of ghgs from large stationary sources of emissions such as power plants or industrial facilities. the motor vehicle rule was finalized in april 2010 and became effective in january 2011 but it does not require immediate reductions in ghg emissions. the stationary source rule was adopted in may 2010 and also became effective january 2011 and is the subject of several pending lawsuits filed by industry groups. the epa also plans to implement ghg emissions standards for power plants in may 2012 and for refineries in november 2012. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce ghg emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory requirements. any ghg emissions legislation or regulatory programs applicable to power plants or refineries could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce ghg emissions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. environmental laws and regulations may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. there is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in our oil and gas operations due to the handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and generated wastes, the occurrence of air emissions and water discharges from work-related activities and the legacy of pollution from historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. we may incur joint and several or strict liability under these environmental laws and regulations in connection with spills, leaks or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for exploration, production or development activities for many years, often by third parties not under our control. private parties, including the owners of properties where we conduct drilling and production activities as well as facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for   19 table of contents personal injury or property damage. in addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. our identified potential drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could prevent them from being drilled or delay their drilling. in certain instances, this could prevent drilling and production before the expiration date of leases for such locations. our management team has identified potential drilling locations as an estimation of our future drilling activities on our existing acreage. these potential drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. our ability to drill and develop these potential drilling locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system, marketing and transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors. because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. in addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the potential locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. therefore, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified. the use of geoscientific, petrophysical and engineering analyses and other technical or operating data to evaluate drilling prospects is uncertain and does not guarantee drilling success or recovery of economically producible reserves. our decisions to explore, develop and acquire prospects or properties targeting wolffork and other zones in the permian basin and other areas depend on data obtained through geoscientific, petrophysical and engineering analyses, the results of which can be uncertain. even when properly used and interpreted, data from whole cores, regional well log analyses and 3-d seismic only assist our technical team in identifying hydrocarbon indicators and subsurface structures and estimating hydrocarbons in place. they do not allow us to know conclusively the amount of hydrocarbons in place and if those hydrocarbons are producible economically. in addition, the use of advanced drilling and completion technologies for our wolffork development, such as horizontal drilling and multi-stage fracture stimulations, requires greater expenditures than our traditional development drilling strategies. our ability to commercially recover and produce the hydrocarbons that we believe are in place and attributable to the wolffork and other zones will depend on the effective use of advanced drilling and completion techniques, the scope of our drilling program (which will be directly affected by the availability of capital), drilling and production costs, availability of drilling and completion services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, regulatory approval and geological and mechanical factors affecting recovery rates. our estimates of unproved reserves, estimated ultimate recoveries per well, hydrocarbons in place and resource potential may change significantly as development of our oil and gas assets provides additional data. unless we replace our oil and gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline. our future oil and gas production depends on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. if we fail to replace reserves through drilling or acquisitions, our production, revenues and cash flows will be adversely affected. in general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. our total proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct other successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and gas reserves would be limited to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. we may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves.   20 table of contents we have leases and options for undeveloped acreage that may expire in the near future. as of december 31, 2011, we held mineral leases or options in each of our areas of operations that are still within their original lease term and are not currently held by production. unless we establish commercial production on the properties subject to these leases, most of these leases will expire between 2012 and 2016. if these leases or options expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. see item 2. “properties —undeveloped acreage expirations” for a table summarizing the expiration schedule of our undeveloped acreage over the next three years. our actual production, revenues and expenditures related to our reserves are likely to differ from our estimates of our proved reserves. we may experience production that is less than estimated and drilling costs that are greater than estimated in our reserve reports. these differences may be material. the proved oil, ngl and gas reserves data included in this report are estimates. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil, ngl and gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including:     •   historical production from the area compared with production from other similar producing areas;     •   the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies;     •   assumptions concerning future oil, ngl and gas prices; and     •   assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs. because all reserves estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves:     •   the quantities of oil, ngl and gas that are ultimately recovered;     •   the production and operating costs incurred;     •   the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and     •   future oil, ngl and gas prices. as of december 31, 2011, approximately 56% of our proved reserves were proved undeveloped. estimates of proved undeveloped reserves are even less reliable than estimates of proved developed reserves. furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and future net revenues based on the same available data. our actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely be different from estimates and the differences may be material. the pv-10 included in this report should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to our properties. pv-10 is based on the average of the closing price on the first day of the month for the 12-month period prior to fiscal year end, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. if oil, ngl and gas prices decline by 10% from $96.22 per bbl of oil, $49.63 per bbl of ngls and $4.12 per mmbtu of gas, to $86.60 per bbl of oil, $44.67 per bbl of ngls and $3.71 per mmbtu of gas, then our pv-10 as of december 31, 2011, would decrease from $679.1 million to $537.3 million. the average market price received for our production for the month of december 2011 was $90.35 per bbl of oil, $50.01 per bbl of ngls and $3.11 per mcf of gas (after basis differential and btu adjustments). actual future net revenues also will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual production, supply and demand for oil and gas, increases or decreases in consumption and changes in governmental regulations or taxation.   21 table of contents we depend on our management team and other key personnel. accordingly, the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business, financial condition and the results of operations and future growth. our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our management team and other key personnel. the loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or of our other employees with critical skills needed to operate our business could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth. in january 2011, we entered into amended and restated employment agreements with j. ross craft, p.e., our president and chief executive officer; and steven p. smart, our executive vice president and chief financial officer; and new employment agreements with qingming yang, our executive vice president — business development and geosciences; j. curtis henderson, our executive vice president and general counsel; and ralph p. manoushagian, our executive vice president — land. if any of these officers or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified personnel. competition for these types of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. if gas prices remain low or decline further, or if oil and ngl prices decline, we may be required to write down the carrying values of our properties. current sec rules also could require us to write down our proved undeveloped reserves in the future. accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. based on prevailing commodity prices and specific market factors and circumstances at the time of impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties. a write-down is a non-cash charge to earnings. we may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. in addition, current sec rules require that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years. such a write-down could result in a non-cash charge to earnings that could be material to our results of operations for the period in which the charge is taken. this rule may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill those wells within the required timeframe. changes in the differential between nymex or other benchmark prices of oil and gas and the reference or regional index price used to price our actual oil and gas sales could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the reference or regional index prices that we use to price our oil and gas sales sometimes reflect a discount to the relevant benchmark prices, such as nymex. the difference between the benchmark price and the price we reference in our sales contracts is called a differential. we cannot accurately predict oil and gas differentials. changes in differentials between the benchmark price for oil and gas and the reference or regional index price we reference in our sales contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our lenders can limit our borrowing capabilities, which may materially impact our operations. at december 31, 2011, we had $43.8 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility, and our borrowing base was $260 million. the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is redetermined semi-annually based upon a number of factors, including commodity prices and reserve levels. in addition to such   22 table of contents semi-annual redeterminations, our lenders may request one additional redetermination during any 12-month period. upon a redetermination, our borrowing base could be substantially reduced, and if the amount outstanding under our credit facility at any time exceeds the borrowing base at such time, we may be required to repay a portion of our outstanding borrowings. we use cash flow from operations and bank borrowings to fund our exploration, development and acquisition activities. a reduction in our borrowing base could limit those activities. in addition, we may significantly change our capital structure to make future acquisitions or develop our properties. changes in capital structure may significantly increase our debt. if we incur additional debt for these or other purposes, the related risks that we now face could intensify. a higher level of debt also increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of debt depends on our future performance, which is affected by general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. we engage in commodity derivative transactions which involve risks that can harm our business. to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our production, we enter into oil, ngl and gas price and basis differential commodity derivative agreements. while intended to reduce the effects of volatile commodity prices and basis differentials, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if commodity prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the commodity derivative, or if the basis spread changes substantially from the basis differential established by the commodity derivative. in addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which our production is less than expected, there is change of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the commodity derivative arrangement or the counterparties to the commodity derivative agreements fail to perform under the contracts. the derivatives reform legislation adopted by congress could have a material adverse impact on our ability to hedge commodity price risks associated with our business. congress adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. the new legislation, known as the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (“dodd-frank”), was signed into law on july 21, 2010, and requires the commodities futures trading commission (the “cftc”) and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment, though final rules have yet to be issued. in its rulemaking under dodd-frank, the cftc has proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and options contracts and swaps in the major energy markets. certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. in december 2011, the cftc extended the potential expiration date of the exemptive relief to july 16, 2012. it is not possible at this time to predict when the cftc will finalize these regulations. dodd-frank may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivatives activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. dodd-frank may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. the new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivatives contracts (including requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against commodity price risks, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivatives contracts and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. if we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of dodd-frank and its regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of dodd-frank and its regulations is to lower our realized commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   23 table of contents changes in tax laws may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. the president’s proposed budget for fiscal year 2013 contains proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to u.s. tax laws, including the elimination of certain key united states federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. these changes include, but are not limited to, (i) repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling costs; (iii) elimination of the deduction for certain u.s. production activities; and (iv) extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. it is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. the passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in u.s. federal income tax laws could eliminate or otherwise limit certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. currently, substantially all of our producing properties are located in two counties in texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with having our production concentrated in a small area. substantially all of our producing properties and estimated proved reserves are concentrated in two counties in texas, crockett and schleicher. as a result of this concentration, we are disproportionately exposed to the natural decline of production from these fields as well as the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailments of production, service delays, natural disasters or other events that impact this area. our customer base is concentrated, and the loss of our key customers could, therefore, adversely affect our financial results. in 2011, wtg, shell, dcp, eastex and bml collectively accounted for 93.1% of our total oil, ngl and gas sales, excluding realized commodity derivative settlements. to the extent that any of our major purchasers reduces their purchases of oil, ngls or gas or defaults on their obligations to us, we would be adversely affected unless we were able to make comparably favorable arrangements with other purchasers. these purchasers’ default or non-performance could be caused by factors beyond our control. a default could occur as a result of circumstances relating directly to one or more of these customers, or due to circumstances related to other market participants with which the customer has a direct or indirect relationship. severe weather could have a material adverse impact on our business. our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. repercussions of severe weather conditions may include:     •   curtailment of services;     •   weather-related damage to drilling rigs, resulting in suspension of operations;     •   weather-related damage to our producing wells or facilities;     •   inability to deliver materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules; and     •   loss of production. operating hazards or other interruptions of our operations could result in potential liabilities, which may not be fully covered by our insurance. the oil and gas business involves certain operating hazards such as well blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of gas, oil or well fluids, fires, pollution and releases of toxic gas. the occurrence of one of   24 table of contents the above may result in injury, loss of life, suspension of operations, environmental damage and remediation and/or governmental investigations and penalties. consistent with insurance coverage generally available to the industry, our insurance policies provide limited coverage for losses or liabilities relating to pollution, with broader coverage for sudden and accidental occurrences. our insurance might be inadequate to cover our liabilities. the insurance market in general and the energy insurance market in particular have been difficult markets over the past several years. insurance costs are expected to continue to increase over the next few years and we may decrease coverage and retain more risk to mitigate future cost increases. if we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. our results are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations. our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and could be negatively impacted in the future as a result of a number of factors, including seasonal variations in oil, ngl and gas prices, variations in levels of production and the completion of exploration and production projects. we have renounced any interest in specified business opportunities, and certain members of our board of directors and certain of our stockholders generally have no obligation to offer us those opportunities. in accordance with delaware law, we have renounced any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity, transaction or other matter in which our outside directors and certain of our stockholders, each referred to as a designated party, participates or desires to participate in that involves any aspect of the exploration and production business in the oil and gas industry. if any such business opportunity is presented to a designated party who also serves as a member of our board of directors, the designated party has no obligation to communicate or offer that opportunity to us, and the designated party may pursue the opportunity as he sees fit, unless:     •   it was presented to the designated party solely in that person’s capacity as a director of our company and with respect to which, at the time of such presentment, no other designated party has independently received notice of or otherwise identified the business opportunity; or     •   the opportunity was identified by the designated party solely through the disclosure of information by or on behalf of us. as a result of this renunciation, our outside directors should not be deemed to have breached any fiduciary duty to us if they or their affiliates or associates pursue opportunities as described above and our future competitive position and growth potential could be adversely affected. item 1b.    unresolved