item 1a.   risk factors.   you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this report before investing in our common stock. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in such a case, you may lose all or part of your investment. the risks described below are not the only we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   risks related to the oil and natural gas industry and our business   our future reserve and production growth is highly dependent on the success of our wolffork oil shale resource play, which has a limited operational history and is subject to change.   we began drilling wells in the wolffork play only recently. the wells that have been drilled or recompleted in these areas only represent a very small sample of our large acreage position, and we cannot assure you that our new vertical or horizontal wells or recompletions of existing wells will be successful. as of december 31, 2010, we had no proved reserves attributable to this play. accordingly, we have limited information on the amount of reserves that will ultimately be recovered from our wolffork wells. our drilling plans in the wolffork are flexible and depend on a number of factors, including the extent to which our initial pilot wells are successful. the determination of whether we continue to drill prospects in the wolffork may, among other things, depend on any one or a combination of the following factors:     •  our ability to determine the most effective and economic fracture stimulation for the wolffork play;     •  changes in the estimates of costs to drill or complete wells;     •  the extent of our success in drilling and completing horizontal wells;     •  our ability to reduce our exposure to costs and drilling risks; and     •  the costs and availability of drilling and completion services and equipment, particularly fracture stimulation services and equipment.   we continue to gather data about our prospects in the wolffork play, and it is possible that additional information may cause us to change our drilling schedule or determine that prospects in some portion of our acreage position should not be developed at all.   the use of geoscientific, petrophysical and engineering analyses and other technical or operating data to evaluate drilling prospects is uncertain and does not guarantee drilling success or recovery of economically producible reserves.   our decisions to explore, develop and acquire prospects or properties targeting wolffork and other zones in the permian basin and other areas depend on data obtained through geoscientific, petrophysical and engineering analyses, the results of which can be uncertain. even when properly used and interpreted, data from whole cores, regional well log analyses and 3-d seismic only assist our technical team in identifying hydrocarbon indicators and subsurface structures and estimating hydrocarbons in place. they do not allow us to know conclusively the amount of hydrocarbons in place and if those hydrocarbons are producible economically. in addition, the use of advanced drilling and completion technologies for our wolffork development, such as horizontal drilling and multi-stage fracture stimulations, requires greater expenditures than our traditional development drilling strategies. our ability to commercially recover and produce the hydrocarbons that we believe are in place and attributable to the wolffork and other zones will depend on the effective use of advanced drilling and completion techniques, the scope of our drilling program (which will be directly affected by the availability of capital), drilling and production costs, availability of drilling and completion services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, regulatory approval and geological and mechanical factors affecting recovery rates. our estimates of unproved reserves, estimated ultimate recoveries per well, hydrocarbons in place and resource potential may change significantly as development of our oil and gas assets provides additional data. 11 table of contents oil and gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil or gas prices could significantly affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure requirements and financial commitments.   our revenues, profitability and cash flow depend substantially upon the prices and demand for oil and gas. the markets for these commodities are volatile, and even relatively modest drops in prices can affect significantly our financial results and impede our growth. prices for oil and gas fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as:     •  domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas;     •  domestic and foreign consumer demand for oil and gas;     •  overall united states and global economic conditions;     •  commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability and the availability of refining capacity;     •  price and availability of alternative fuels;     •  price and quantity of foreign imports;     •  domestic and foreign governmental regulations;     •  political conditions in or affecting other gas producing and oil producing countries;     •  the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls;     •  weather conditions, including unseasonably warm winter weather and tropical storms; and     •  technological advances affecting oil and gas consumption.   further, oil and gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. because 49% of our estimated proved reserves as of december 31, 2010, were gas reserves, our financial results are also sensitive to movements in gas prices. recent gas prices have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. for example, from january 1, 2010 to december 31, 2010, nymex natural gas prices ranged from a high of $6.01 per mmbtu to a low of $3.29 per mmbtu.   the results of higher investment in the exploration for and production of oil and gas and other factors, such as global economic and financial conditions discussed below, may cause the price of oil and gas to fall. lower oil and gas prices may not only cause our revenues to decrease but also may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. substantial decreases in oil and gas prices would render uneconomic some or all of our drilling locations. this may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, if oil, gas and ngl prices significantly decline for an extended period of time, we may, among other things, be unable to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future debt or obtain additional capital on attractive terms, all of which can affect the value of our common stock.   a substantial portion of our estimated proved reserves at december 31, 2010, are ngls. a decline in the price of ngls or a disruption in our ability to transport ngls to a market could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   at december 31, 2010, 41% of our estimated proved reserves were ngl reserves. accordingly, our financial results are sensitive to movements in ngl prices, which are impacted by, among other things, ngl supply, transportation capacity of midstream operators and demand for ngls from downstream processing facilities. in addition, ngls can be subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, ability of downstream processing facilities to 12 table of contents accept ngls, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. the curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months or longer, and in many cases we are provided with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration.   changes in the differential between nymex or other benchmark prices of oil and gas and the reference or regional index price used to price our actual oil and gas sales could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   the reference or regional index prices that we use to price our oil and gas sales sometimes reflect a discount to the relevant benchmark prices, such as nymex. the difference between the benchmark price and the price we reference in our sales contracts is called a differential. we cannot accurately predict oil and gas differentials. changes in differentials between the benchmark price for oil and gas and the reference or regional index price we reference in our sales contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   future economic conditions in the u.s. and international markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   the u.s. and other world economies continue to experience the effects of a global recession and credit market crisis. more volatility may occur before a sustainable growth rate is achieved either domestically or globally. even if such growth rate is achieved, such a rate may be lower than the u.s. and international economies have experienced in the past. global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including fossil fuels. a lower, future economic growth rate will result in decreased demand for our oil, gas and ngl production and lower commodity prices, which will reduce our cash flows from operations and our profitability.   difficult conditions in the credit and capital markets may limit our ability to obtain funding under our current revolving credit facility or other sources of debt or equity financing. the inability to obtain funding could prevent us from meeting our future capital needs to fund our development program.   credit and capital markets have experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption. although domestic markets continued to recover in 2010, they may remain volatile and unpredictable, particularly if weaker than expected economic growth persists. we have a significant inventory of development properties that will require substantial future investment. we will need financing to fund these and other activities. our future access to capital could be limited if the credit or broader capital markets are constrained. this could prevent or significantly delay development of our assets.   our lenders can limit our borrowing capabilities, which may materially impact our operations.   at december 31, 2010, we had no outstanding debt under our revolving credit facility, and our borrowing base was $150 million. at february 28, 2011, we had $67 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility, primarily as a result of financing the $76 million working interest acquisition. the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is redetermined semi-annually based upon a number of factors, including commodity prices and reserve levels. in addition to such semi-annual redeterminations, our lenders may request one additional redetermination during any 12-month period. upon a redetermination, our borrowing base could be substantially reduced, and if the amount outstanding under our credit facility at any time exceeds the borrowing base at such time, we may be required to repay a portion of our outstanding borrowings. we use cash flow from operations and bank borrowings to fund our exploration, development and acquisition activities. a reduction in our borrowing base could limit those activities. in addition, we may significantly change our capital structure to make future acquisitions or develop our properties. changes in capital structure may significantly increase our debt. if we incur additional debt for these or other purposes, the related risks that we now face could intensify. a higher level of debt also increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of debt 13 table of contents depends on our future performance, which is affected by general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.   drilling and exploring for, and producing, oil and gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   drilling and exploration are the main methods we use to replace our reserves. however, drilling and exploration operations may not result in any increases in reserves for various reasons. exploration activities involve numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be discovered. in addition, the future cost and timing of drilling, completing and producing wells is often uncertain. furthermore, drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including:     •  reductions in oil and gas prices;     •  limitations in the market for oil and gas;     •  inadequate capital resources;     •  unavailability or high cost of drilling and completion equipment, materials or labor;     •  compliance with governmental regulations;     •  unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents;     •  lack of acceptable prospective acreage;     •  adverse weather conditions;     •  surface access restrictions;     •  title problems; and     •  mechanical difficulties.   currently, substantially all of our producing properties are located in two counties in texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with having our production concentrated in a small area.   substantially all of our producing properties and estimated proved reserves are geographically concentrated in two counties in texas, crockett and schleicher. our current production is primarily attributable to two areas in crockett and schleicher counties, ozona northeast and the angus field in cinco terry. as a result of this concentration, we are disproportionately exposed to the natural decline of production from these fields, and particularly ozona northeast, as well as the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailments of production, natural disasters, interruption of transportation of gas produced from the wells in these areas or other events that impact these areas.   potential identified drilling locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil or gas in commercially viable quantities and are susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling.   our drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from locations that are ready to be drilled to locations that will require substantial additional evaluation and interpretation. there is no way to predict before drilling and testing whether any particular drilling location will yield oil or gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. the use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively before drilling whether oil or gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or gas will be present in commercial quantities. the analysis that we perform may not be useful in predicting the characteristics and potential reserves associated with our drilling locations. as a result, we may not find commercially viable quantities of oil and gas. 14 table of contents our potential drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including oil and gas prices, costs and availability of drilling and completion services and equipment, the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals and drilling results. because of these uncertainties, we do not know when the drilling locations we have identified will be drilled or if they will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or gas from these or any proved drilling locations. as such, our actual drilling activities may be materially different from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.   unless we replace our oil and gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline.   our future oil and gas production depends on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. if we fail to replace reserves through drilling or acquisitions, our level of production and cash flows will be adversely affected. in general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. our total proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct other successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and gas reserves would be limited to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. we may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves.   our actual production, revenues and expenditures related to our reserves are likely to differ from our estimates of our proved reserves. we may experience production that is less than estimated and drilling costs that are greater than estimated in our reserve reports. these differences may be material.   the proved oil, ngl and gas reserve data included in this report are estimates. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil, ngl and gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including:     •  historical production from the area compared with production from other similar producing areas;     •  the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies;     •  assumptions concerning future oil, ngl and gas prices; and     •  assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs.   because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves:     •  the quantities of oil, ngl and gas that are ultimately recovered;     •  the production and operating costs incurred;     •  the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and     •  future oil, ngl and gas prices.   as of december 31, 2010, approximately 49% of our proved reserves were proved undeveloped. estimates of proved undeveloped reserves are even less reliable than estimates of proved developed reserves. furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and future net revenues based on the same available data. our actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely be different from estimates and the differences may be material. the pv-10 included in this report should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to our properties. pv-10 is based on the average of the closing price on the first day of the month for the 12-month period prior to fiscal year end, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. if natural gas, oil and ngl prices decline by 10% from $4.38 per mmbtu, $79.40 per bbl of oil and $39.25 per 15 table of contents bbl of ngls to $3.94 per mmbtu, $71.46 per bbl of oil and $35.33 per bbl of ngls, then our pv-10 as of december 31, 2010, would decrease from $325.8 million to $263 million. the average market price received for our production for the month of december 2010 was $4.31 per mcf (after basis differential and btu adjustments), $85.05 per bbl of oil and $45.85 per bbl of ngls.   actual future net revenues also will be affected by factors such as:     •  the amount and timing of actual production;     •  supply and demand for oil and gas;     •  increases or decreases in consumption; and     •  changes in governmental regulations or taxation.   the unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, materials, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget.   our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. during these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. in addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling and completion crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. increasing levels of exploration and production will increase the demand for oilfield services, and the costs of these services may increase, while the quality of these services may suffer. our primary area of operation, the permian basin, is currently experiencing increased demand for fracture stimulation materials, crews and services and the availability of such crews, materials and services has been severely restricted. if the availability of fracture stimulation crews, materials and services in the permian basin remains particularly severe, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in the permian basin.   we have leases and options for undeveloped acreage that may expire in the near future.   as of december 31, 2010, we held mineral leases or options in each of our areas of operations that are still within their original lease term and are not currently held by production. unless we establish commercial production on the properties subject to these leases, most of these leases will expire between 2011 and 2015. if these leases or options expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. see item 2. “properties — undeveloped acreage expirations” for a table summarizing the expiration schedule of our undeveloped acreage over the next three years.   competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have resources that are greater than ours.   we operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. many of our competitors are major and large independent oil and gas companies that possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. our ability to acquire additional prospects and discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and gas industry. larger competitors may be better able to withstand sustained periods of unsuccessful drilling and absorb the burden of changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. we may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. 16 table of contents our customer base is concentrated, and the loss of our key customers could, therefore, adversely affect our financial results.   in 2010, ozona pipeline, shell and wtg accounted for approximately 34.3%, 32.4% and 31.8%, respectively, of our total oil, ngl and gas sales, excluding realized commodity derivative settlements. in addition, in january 2011, we entered into an agreement with dcp midstream lp to purchase gas and process ngls from ozona northeast when our agreement with ozona pipeline expires, which will be march 31, 2011. to the extent that any of our major purchasers reduces their purchases in gas or oil or defaults on their obligations to us, we would be adversely affected unless we were able to make comparably favorable arrangements with other customers. these purchasers’ default or non-performance could be caused by factors beyond our control. a default could occur as a result of circumstances relating directly to one or more of these customers, or due to circumstances related to other market participants with which the customer has a direct or indirect relationship.   we depend on our management team and other key personnel. accordingly, the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business, financial condition and the results of operations and future growth.   our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our management team and other key personnel. the loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or of our other employees with critical skills needed to operate our business could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth. in january 2011, we entered into amended and restated employment agreements with j. ross craft, p.e., our president and chief executive officer; and steven p. smart, our executive vice president and chief financial officer; and new employment agreements with j. curtis henderson, our executive vice president and general counsel; qingming yang, our executive vice president — business development and geosciences; and ralph p. manoushagian, our executive vice president — land. if any of these officers or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified personnel. competition for these types of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably.   we have three affiliated stockholders who, together with our board and management, have a 24.4% interest in our company, whose interests may differ from your interests and who will be able to control or substantially influence the outcome of matters voted upon by our stockholders.   at december 31, 2010, yorktown energy partners v, l.p., yorktown energy partners vi, l.p. and yorktown energy partners vii, l.p. (collectively “yorktown”), which are under common management, beneficially owned approximately 14.6% of our outstanding common stock in the aggregate, together with a yorktown representative who serves on our board of directors. in addition, our non-yorktown directors and management team beneficially own or control approximately 9.8% of our common stock outstanding. as a result of this ownership and control, yorktown, together with our board and management, has the ability to control or substantially influence the vote in any election of directors. yorktown, together with our board and management, also has control or substantial influence over our decisions to enter into significant corporate transactions and, in their capacity as our majority stockholders, these stockholders may have the ability to effectively block any transactions that they do not believe are in yorktown’s or management’s best interest. as a result, yorktown, together with our board and management, is able to control, directly or indirectly and subject to applicable law, or substantially influence all matters affecting us, including the following:     •  any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers;     •  any determinations with respect to mergers, business combinations or dispositions of assets;     •  our capital structure; 17 table of contents     •  compensation, equity programs and other human resources policy decisions;     •  changes to other agreements that may adversely affect us; and     •  the payment, or nonpayment, of dividends on our common stock.   yorktown, together with our board and management, also may have an interest in pursuing transactions that, in their judgment, enhance the value of their respective equity investments in our company, even though those transactions may involve risks to you as a minority stockholder. in addition, circumstances could arise under which their interests could be in conflict with the interests of our other stockholders or you, a minority stockholder. also, yorktown and their affiliates have and may in the future make significant investments in other companies, some of which may be competitors. yorktown and its affiliates are not obligated to advise us of any investment or business opportunities of which they are aware, and they are not restricted or prohibited from competing with us.   we have renounced any interest in specified business opportunities, and certain members of our board of directors and certain of our stockholders generally have no obligation to offer us those opportunities.   in accordance with delaware law, we have renounced any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity, transaction or other matter in which our outside directors and certain of our stockholders, each referred to as a designated party, participates or desires to participate in that involves any aspect of the exploration and production business in the oil and industry. if any such business opportunity is presented to a designated party who also serves as a member of our board of directors, the designated party has no obligation to communicate or offer that opportunity to us, and the designated party may pursue the opportunity as he sees fit, unless:     •  it was presented to the designated party solely in that person’s capacity as a director of our company and with respect to which, at the time of such presentment, no other designated party has independently received notice of or otherwise identified the business opportunity; or     •  the opportunity was identified by the designated party solely through the disclosure of information by or on behalf of us.   as a result of this renunciation, our outside directors should not be deemed to have breached any fiduciary duty to us if they or their affiliates or associates pursue opportunities as described above and our future competitive position and growth potential could be adversely affected.   we are subject to complex governmental laws and regulations that may adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.   our operations and facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the exploration for, and the development, production and transportation of, oil and gas, operating safety and protection of the environment, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, land use, storage and disposal of wastes and remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater. future laws or regulations, any adverse changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations or our failure to comply with existing legal requirements may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may encounter reductions in reserves or be required to make large and unanticipated capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations, such as:     •  price control;     •  taxation;     •  lease permit restrictions;     •  drilling bonds and other financial responsibility requirements, such as plug and abandonment bonds;     •  spacing of wells;     •  unitization and pooling of properties; 18 table of contents     •  safety precautions; and     •  permitting requirements.   under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for:     •  personal injuries;     •  property and natural resource damages;     •  well reclamation costs, soil and groundwater remediation costs; and     •  governmental sanctions, such as fines and penalties.   our operations could be significantly delayed or curtailed, and our cost of operations could significantly increase as a result of environmental safety and other regulatory requirements or restrictions. we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. we may be unable to obtain all necessary licenses, permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects. intricate and changing environmental and other regulatory requirements may require substantial expenditures to obtain and maintain permits. if a project is unable to function as planned, for example, due to costly or changing requirements or local opposition, it may create expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project. see item 1. “business — regulation.”   environmental laws and regulations may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.   there is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in our oil and gas operations due to the handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and generated wastes, the occurrence of air emissions and water discharges from work-related activities and the legacy of pollution from historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. we may incur joint and several or strict liability under these environmental laws and regulations in connection with spills, leaks or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for exploration, production or development activities for many years, oftentimes by third parties not under our control. private parties, including the owners of properties upon which we conduct drilling and production activities as well as facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. in addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. see item 1., “business — regulation.”   climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of ghgs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and gas we produce.   both houses of congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs, and many states have already taken measures to reduce emissions of ghgs, primarily through the planned development of ghg emission inventories and/or regional ghg cap and trade programs. most of these cap and trade programs require either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall ghg emission reduction goal is achieved. these allowances are expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. any law that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on demand for the oil and gas that we produce.   in december 2009, the epa published its findings that ghgs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gasses are, according to the epa, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes. these findings allow the epa to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal clean air act. the epa has adopted two sets of regulations under the clean air act pertaining to ghgs. the first limits 19 table of contents emissions of ghgs from motor vehicles beginning with the 2012 model year. the epa has asserted that these final motor vehicle ghg emission standards trigger clean air act construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources, commencing when the motor vehicle standards took effect in january 2011. in june 2010, the epa published its final rule to address the permitting of ghg emissions from stationary sources under the prevention of significant deterioration (“psd”) and title v permitting programs. this rule “tailors” these permitting programs to apply to certain stationary sources of ghg emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. it is widely expected that facilities required to obtain psd permits for their ghg emissions also will be required to reduce those emissions according to “best available control technology” standards for ghgs that have yet to be developed. the epa’s rules and regulations regarding ghgs could have an adverse effect on demand for the oil and gas that we produce.   in december 2010, the epa enacted final rules on mandatory reporting of ghgs. under the final rules, owners or operators of facilities that contain petroleum and natural gas systems and emit 25,000 metric tons or more of ghgs per year (expressed as carbon dioxide equivalent or co2e) from processing operations, stationary combustion, miscellaneous use of carbonates and other source categories will report ghg emissions from all source categories located at the facility for which emission calculation methods are defined in the rule. beginning in 2011, operators are required to collect emission data, calculate ghg emissions and follow specified procedures for quality assurance, missing data, recordkeeping and reporting. our operations in the permian basin are subject to the epa’s mandatory reporting rules. as a result, we will be required to incur increased capital and operating costs to monitor and report ghg emissions.   federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in our production of oil and gas and lower returns on our capital investments.   bills were introduced in the previous u.s. congress to regulate hydraulic fracturing operations and related injection of fracturing fluids and propping agents used in fracturing fluids by the oil and natural gas industry under the federal safe drinking water act (“sdwa”) and to require the disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process under the sdwa, emergency planning and community right-to-know act (“epcra”) or other authority. hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of unconventional oil and natural gas wells in shale and tight sand formations. hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. we engage third parties to provide hydraulic fracturing or other well stimulation services to us for many of the wells that we drill and operate. sponsors of such bills have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies, surface waters, and other natural resources, and threaten health and safety. in addition, in march 2010, the epa announced its intention to conduct a comprehensive research study on the potential adverse impacts that hydraulic fracturing may have on water quality and public health and, in february 2011, the epa issued a draft study plan on hydraulic fracturing. certain states have also considered or imposed reporting obligations relating to the use of hydraulic fracturing techniques.   additional legislation or regulation could make it easier for parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. there has also been increasing public controversy regarding hydraulic fracturing with regard to use of fracturing fluids, impacts on drinking water supplies, use of water and the potential for impacts to surface water, groundwater and the environment generally. a number of lawsuits and enforcement actions have been initiated in texas and other states implicating hydraulic fracturing practices.   legislation, regulation, litigation and enforcement actions at the federal, state or local level that restrict the provision of hydraulic fracturing services could limit the availability and raise the cost of such services, delay completion of new wells and production of our oil and gas, lower our return on capital expenditures and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and quantities of oil and gas reserves that may be economically produced. 20 table of contents changes in tax laws may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.   president obama’s proposed fiscal year 2011 and 2012 budgets include proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to u.s. tax laws, including the elimination of certain key united states federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. these changes include, but are not limited to:     •  repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties;     •  elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling costs;     •  elimination of the domestic manufacturing deduction for oil and gas companies; and     •  extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures.   it is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. the passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in u.s. federal income tax laws could eliminate or otherwise limit certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.   the adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.   the u.s. congress has passed, and the president has signed into law, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (“dodd-frank act”). the dodd-frank act provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including oil and gas hedging transactions. certain transactions will be required to be cleared on exchanges, and cash collateral will be required for these transactions. the dodd-frank act provides for a potential exception from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users, and it includes a number of defined terms that will be used in determining how this exception applies to particular derivative transactions and to the parties to those transactions. the dodd-frank act requires the sec and the commodities futures and trading commission (“cftc”) to promulgate rules to define these terms in detail, and in december 2010, the sec and cftc proposed such rules.   we enter into financial swaps and options from time to time in order to hedge against commodity price uncertainty and enhance the predictability of cash flows from oil and gas sales. depending on the rules and definitions ultimately adopted by the sec and cftc, we might in the future be required to provide cash collateral for our commodities hedging transactions. posting of cash collateral could cause significant liquidity issues for us by reducing our ability to use our cash for capital expenditures or other corporate purposes. a requirement to post cash collateral could therefore significantly reduce our ability to execute strategic hedges to reduce commodity price uncertainty and thus protect cash flows.   we are at risk until the sec and cftc adopt final rules and definitions that confirm that companies such as ourselves are not required to post cash collateral for our derivative hedging contracts. in addition, even if we are not required to post cash collateral for our derivative contracts, the banks and other derivatives dealers who are our contractual counterparties will be required to comply with the dodd-frank act’s new requirements, and the costs of their compliance will likely be passed on to customers such as ourselves, thus decreasing the benefits to us of hedging transactions and reducing our profitability.   operating hazards, natural disasters or other interruptions of our operations could result in potential liabilities, which may not be fully covered by our insurance.   the oil and gas business involves certain operating hazards such as:     •  well blowouts;     •  cratering; 21 table of contents     •  explosions;     •  uncontrollable flows of gas, oil or well fluids;     •  fires;     •  pollution; and     •  releases of toxic gas.   the occurrence of one of the above may result in injury, loss of life, suspension of operations, environmental damage and remediation and/or governmental investigations and penalties.   in addition, our operations in texas are especially susceptible to damage from natural disasters such as tornados and involve increased risks of personal injury, property damage and marketing interruptions. any of these operating hazards could cause serious injuries, fatalities or property damage, which could expose us to liabilities. the payment of any of these liabilities could reduce, or even eliminate, the funds available for exploration, development and acquisition, or could result in a loss of our properties. consistent with insurance coverage generally available to the industry, our insurance policies provide limited coverage for losses or liabilities relating to pollution, with broader coverage for sudden and accidental occurrences. our insurance might be inadequate to cover our liabilities. the insurance market in general and the energy insurance market in particular have been difficult markets over the past several years. insurance costs are expected to continue to increase over the next few years and we may decrease coverage and retain more risk to mitigate future cost increases. if we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   our results are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations.   our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and could be negatively impacted in the future as a result of a number of factors, including:     •  seasonal variations in oil, ngl and gas prices;     •  variations in levels of production; and     •  the completion of exploration and production projects.   market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder our access to oil, ngl and gas markets or delay our production.   market conditions and the unavailability of satisfactory oil and gas processing and transportation may hinder our access to oil and gas markets or delay our production. although currently we control the gathering system operations for some of our production in the permian basin, we do not have such control over the regional or downstream pipelines in the permian basin or in other areas where we operate or expect to conduct operations. the availability of a ready market for our oil, ngl and gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil, ngls and gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. in addition, the amount of oil, ngls and gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, ability of downstream processing facilities to accept unprocessed gas, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. the curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases we are provided with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. as a result, we may not be able to sell, or may have to transport by more expensive means, the oil, ngl and gas production from wells or we may be required to shut in oil or gas wells or delay initial production until the necessary gathering and transportation systems are available. any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity, or significant delay in construction of 22 table of contents necessary gathering and transportation facilities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   our growth strategy could fail or present unanticipated problems for our business in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to make acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits of those acquisitions.   our growth strategy includes acquiring oil and gas businesses and properties. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or finance and complete any particular acquisition successfully. furthermore, acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including:     •  diversion of management’s attention;     •  the need to integrate acquired operations;     •  potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies;     •  potential lack of operating experience in a geographic market of the acquired business; and     •  an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements.   any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows from the acquired businesses or realize other anticipated benefits of those acquisitions.   joint drilling ventures and similar arrangements could expose us to risks.   as the operator in a joint drilling venture, we could be exposed to a risk of loss if a non-operating participant fails to meet its obligations to fund its portion of the drilling and operating costs as agreed under a joint operating or other applicable agreement. in addition, as a non-operator in a joint drilling venture, we could have limited or no ability to influence or control the future development of non-operated properties or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund. the failure of an operator to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in ways that are in our best interest could reduce our production and revenues and increase our capital expenditures and operating costs. if we are a non-operator, our dependence on an operator and our limited ability to influence or control operations and future development could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   severe weather could have a material adverse impact on our business.   our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. repercussions of severe weather conditions may include:     •  curtailment of services;     •  weather-related damage to drilling rigs, resulting in suspension of operations;     •  weather-related damage to our producing wells or facilities;     •  inability to deliver materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules; and     •  loss of production.   a terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business.   terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflict involving the united states may adversely affect the united states and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. if any of these events occurs or escalates, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and gas, potentially putting downward pressure on demand for our services and causing a reduction in our revenue. oil and gas related facilities could be direct targets for terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if significant infrastructure or facilities we use for the production, transportation or marketing of our oil and gas production are destroyed or damaged. 23 table of contents costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become difficult to obtain, if available at all.   risks related to our financial condition   we will require additional capital to fund our future activities. if we fail to obtain additional capital, we may not be able to fully implement our business plan, which could lead to a decline in reserves.   we depend on our ability to obtain financing beyond our cash flow from operations. historically, we have financed our business plan and operations primarily with internally generated cash flows, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and issuances of common stock. we also require capital to fund our exploration and development budget. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 49% of our total estimated proved reserves were proved undeveloped. recovery of such reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. according to our year-end 2010 reserve report, the estimated capital required to develop our current proved developed and proved undeveloped oil and gas reserves is $259 million. we will be required to meet our needs from our internally-generated cash flows, debt financings and equity financings.   if our revenues decrease as a result of lower commodity prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. we may, from time to time, need to seek additional financing. our revolving credit facility contains covenants restricting our ability to incur additional indebtedness without lender consent. there can be no assurance that our bank lenders will provide this consent or as to the availability or terms of any additional financing. if we incur additional debt, the related risks that we now face could intensify.   even if additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. if cash generated by operations and available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our projects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our oil and gas reserves.   our bank lenders can limit our borrowing capabilities, which may materially impact our operations.   at december 31, 2010, we had no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, and our borrowing base was $150 million. at february 28, 2011, we had $67 million in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, primarily as a result of financing the $76 million working interest acquisition. the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is redetermined semi-annually. redeterminations are based upon information contained in an annual reserves report prepared by an independent petroleum engineering firm and a mid-year report prepared by our own engineers. in addition, as is typical in the oil and gas industry, our bank lenders have substantial flexibility to reduce our borrowing base on the basis of subjective factors. upon a redetermination, we could be required to repay a portion of our outstanding borrowings, including the amount of all unpaid reimbursement obligations, to the extent such amounts exceed the redetermined borrowing base. we may not have sufficient funds to make such required repayment, which could result in a default under the terms of the revolving credit facility and an acceleration of the loan. we intend to finance our development, exploration and acquisition activities with cash flow from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other financing activities. in addition, we may significantly alter our capital structure to make future acquisitions or develop our properties. changes in our capital structure may significantly increase our level of debt. if we incur additional debt for these or other purposes, the related risks that we now face could intensify. a higher debt level also increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of debt depends on our future performance which will be affected by general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. many of these factors are beyond our control. our level of debt affects our operations in several important ways, including the following:     •  a portion of our cash flow from operations is used to pay interest on borrowings; 24 table of contents     •  the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt limit our ability to borrow additional funds, pay dividends, dispose of assets or issue shares of preferred stock and otherwise may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions;     •  a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;     •  a leveraged financial position would make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and     •  any debt that we incur under our revolving credit facility will be at variable rates which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates.   we engage in commodity derivative transactions which involve risks that can harm our business.   to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our gas production, we enter into gas price and basis differential commodity derivative agreements. while intended to reduce the effects of volatile gas prices and basis differentials, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the commodity derivative, or if the basis spread changes substantially from the basis differential established by the commodity derivative. in addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which our production is less than expected, there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the commodity derivative arrangement or the counterparties to the commodity derivative agreements fail to perform under the contracts. in addition, as discussed above in this item 1a. “risk factors,” proposed legislation relating to derivatives transactions may restrict our ability to execute transactions to protect against risks of fluctuating commodity prices.   risks related to our common stock   the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which could negatively affect us and holders of our common stock.   the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. for instance, if our financial or operating results, particularly related to the development of our wolffork play, are below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. other factors that may affect the market price of our common stock include:     •  announcements relating to significant corporate transactions;     •  fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial or operating results;     •  operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; and     •  changes in government regulation or proposals relating to us.   in addition, the u.s. securities markets have recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. these fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets. market fluctuations and broad market, economic and industry factors may negatively affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. any volatility of or a significant decrease in the market price of our common stock could also negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions using common stock. further, if we were to be the object of securities class action litigation as a result of volatility in our common stock price or for other reasons, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business financial results and results of operations. 25 table of contents common stockholders will be diluted if additional shares are issued.   in our initial public offering in november 2007, we sold 8.8 million shares of common stock to repay borrowings outstanding on our revolving credit facility, repurchase 2 million shares of common stock from a selling stockholder and acquire the 30% working interest in ozona northeast that we did not already own. in november 2010, we sold 6.6 million shares of common stock. we intend to use proceeds from the 2010 offering to fund our capital expenditures for the wolffork oil shale resources play, working interest and leasehold acquisitions in the permian basin and general working capital needs. pending these uses, we used a portion of the proceeds to repay all outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility. we may issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants, rights, units and debt securities for general corporate purposes, including repayment or refinancing of borrowings, working capital, capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions. we continue to actively seek to expand our business through complementary or strategic acquisitions of assets, and we may issue shares of common stock in connection with those acquisitions. we also issue restricted stock to our executive officers, employees and independent directors as part of their compensation. if we issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our current outstanding stockholders.   because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us.   we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. we currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. covenants contained in our revolving credit facility restrict the payment of dividends. investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock.   the equity trading markets may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders.   the equity trading markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. the market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition.   item 1b.   unresolved