item 1a. risk factors we operate in a market and regulatory environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows and liquidity. risks related to our industry and business our utility operations are subject to extensive economic regulation. decisions by state pucs and other regulatory agencies can significantly affect our business and results of operations. our regulated businesses provide water and wastewater services to our customers through subsidiaries that are economically regulated by state pucs. economic regulation affects the rates we charge our customers and has a significant impact on our business and results of operations. generally, the state pucs authorize us to charge rates that they determine are sufficient to recover our prudently incurred operating expenses, to enable us to finance the addition of new, or the replacement of existing, water and wastewater infrastructure and to provide us the opportunity to earn what they determine to be an appropriate rate of return on our invested capital and a return of our invested capital.   21 table of contents our ability to successfully implement our business plan and strategy depends upon the rates authorized by the various state pucs. we periodically file rate increase applications with state pucs. the ensuing administrative process may be lengthy and costly. we can provide no assurances that our rate increase requests will be approved, or that any approval will be given in a timely manner. moreover, a puc may not approve a rate request to an extent that is sufficient to cover our expenses, including purchased water and costs of chemicals, fuel and other commodities used in our operations; enable us to recover our investment; and provide us an opportunity to earn an appropriate rate of return on our investment, in which case our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity may be adversely affected. even if rates are sufficient, we face the risk that we will not achieve the rates of return on our invested capital and a return of our invested capital to the extent permitted by state pucs. this could occur if water usage is less than anticipated in establishing rates, as billings to customers are, to a considerable extent, based on usage in addition to a base rate, or if our investments or expenses prove to be higher than was estimated in establishing rates. our operations and the quality of water we supply are subject to extensive environmental, water quality and health and safety laws and regulations. compliance with increasingly stringent laws and regulations could impact our operating costs; and violations of such laws and regulations could subject the company to substantial liabilities and costs. our water and wastewater operations are subject to extensive united states federal, state and local laws and regulations and, in the case of our canadian operations, canadian laws and regulations that govern the protection of the environment, health and safety, the quality of the water we deliver to our customers, water allocation rights, and the manner in which we collect, treat, discharge and dispose of wastewater. these requirements include the united states clean water act of 1972, which we refer to as the clean water act, and the united states safe drinking water act of 1974, which we refer to as the safe drinking water act, and similar state and canadian laws and regulations. we are also required to obtain various environmental permits from regulatory agencies for our operations. in addition, state pucs also set conditions and standards for the water and wastewater services we deliver. if we deliver water or wastewater services to our customers that do not comply with regulatory standards, or otherwise violate environmental laws, regulations or permits, or other health and safety and water quality regulations, we could incur substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions or costs, as well as damage to our reputation. in the most serious cases, regulators could force us to discontinue operations and sell our operating assets to another utility or to a municipality. given the nature of our business which, in part, involves supplying water for human consumption, any potential non-compliance with, or violation of, environmental, water quality and health and safety laws or regulations would likely pose a more significant risk to us than to a company not similarly involved in the water and wastewater industry. we incur substantial operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental, water quality and health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations, and their enforcement, generally have become more stringent over time, and new or stricter requirements could increase our costs. although we may seek to recover ongoing compliance costs in our rates, there can be no guarantee that the various state pucs or similar regulatory bodies that govern our regulated businesses would approve rate increases to recover such costs or that such costs will not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. we may also incur liabilities if, under environmental laws and regulations, we are required to investigate and clean up environmental contamination at our properties, including potential spills of hazardous chemicals, such as chlorine, which we use to treat water, or at off-site locations where we have disposed of waste or caused an adverse environmental impact. the discovery of previously unknown conditions, or the imposition of cleanup obligations in the future, could result in significant costs and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. such remediation costs may not be covered by insurance and may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future.   22 table of contents the current regulatory rate setting structure may result in a significant delay, or “regulatory lag,” from the time that we invest in infrastructure improvements, incur increased operating expenses or experience declining water usage, to the time at which we can address these events through the rate case application process; our inability to minimize regulatory lag could adversely affect our business. there is typically a delay, or regulatory lag, between the time one of our regulated subsidiaries makes a capital investment or incurs an operating expense increase and the time when those costs are reflected in rates. in addition, billings permitted by state pucs typically are, to a considerable extent, based on the volume of water usage in addition to a minimum base rate. thus, we may experience a regulatory lag between the time our revenues are affected by declining usage and the time we are able to adjust the rate per gallon of usage to address declining usage. our inability to reduce this regulatory lag could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. several state pucs are permitting rates to be adjusted outside of the rate case application process through surcharges that address capital investments to replace aging infrastructure, and increases in costs beyond the utility’s control, such as purchased water costs, property taxes and other expenditures. these surcharge mechanisms enable us to adjust rates closer to the time costs have been incurred than would be the case under the rate case application process. currently, seven states permit us to use infrastructure surcharges related to our capital investments to replace aging infrastructure. these surcharges periodically are adjusted based on factors such as project completion or future budgeted expenditures, and specific surcharges are eliminated once the related capital investment is incorporated in new puc-approved base rates. in addition to the infrastructure surcharges, three states have permitted us to add surcharges for purchased water costs, one state has permitted us to add surcharges for power and conservation costs, and one state has permitted us to add surcharges for expenses such as utility and chemical costs. while these surcharges have been a positive development, some state pucs have not approved surcharges for infrastructure improvement, no state puc has enabled us to add a surcharge for all of the operating expenses described above, and no state puc has enabled us to address declining water usage through a surcharge. although we intend to expand our efforts to obtain state puc approval of surcharges to address infrastructure investments, increases in operating expenses and declining water usage, our efforts may not be successful, in which case our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity may be adversely affected. availability of water supplies, restrictions on use, natural hazards, severe weather conditions, competing uses and economic conditions may adversely affect our access to sources of water, the demand for water services or our ability to supply water to customers. our ability to meet the existing and future demand of our customers depends on the availability of an adequate supply of water. as a general rule, sources of public water supply, including rivers, lakes, streams and groundwater aquifers, are held in the public trust and are not owned by private interests. as a result, we typically do not own the water that we use in our operations, and the availability of our water supply is established through allocation rights (determined by legislation or court decisions) and passing-flow requirements set by governmental entities. passing-flow requirements set minimum volumes of water that must pass through specified water sources, such as rivers and streams, in order to maintain environmental habitats and meet water allocation rights of downstream users. allocation rights are imposed to ensure sustainability of major water sources and passing-flow requirements are most often imposed on source waters from smaller rivers, lakes and streams. these requirements, which can change from time to time, may adversely impact our water supply. drought, overuse of sources of water, the protection of threatened species or habitats, or other factors may limit the availability of ground and surface water. for example, in our monterey county, california operations, we are seeking to augment our sources of water supply, principally to comply with an order of the california state water resources control board that our subsidiary, california-american water company (“cawc”), significantly decrease its diversion from the carmel river in accordance with a reduction schedule running through december 31, 2016. we are also required to augment our monterey county sources of water supply to comply with the requirements of the endangered species act. we have implemented conservation rates and other programs to address demand and are utilizing aquifer storage and recovery facilities to store winter water   23 table of contents for summer use. we were hopeful that we could address the water supply issues in a meaningful way through a regional desalination project (the “project”) that was to be implemented through a water purchase agreement and ancillary agreements (the “agreements”) among the marina coast water district (“mcwd”), the monterey county water resources agency (“mcwra”) and cawc. as part of the project, cawc was to construct a conveyance pipeline from the desalination facility. we also planned to construct four additional pipelines and two pump stations (the “ancillary facilities”). however, the project was subject to considerable delay and disputes among the parties. in july 2011, mcwra advised mcwd and cawc that the agreements were void. by letter delivered to mcwd and mcwra on september 28, 2011, cawc terminated the agreements based on mcwra’s repudiation of the agreements (mcwd has continued to assert that the agreements remain in effect). nevertheless, the parties agreed to participate in mediation in an attempt to resolve issues relating to the project and the agreements. in october 2011, during the pendency of the mediation, cawc filed a petition (the “petition”) with the california public utility commission (“cpuc”) seeking clarification that it may go forward with constructing the ancillary facilities regardless of the status of the project. mcwd and the california division of ratepayer advocates are opposing the petition. ultimately, the mediation was not successful and ended on january 16, 2012. on january 17, 2012, cawc announced that it had withdrawn support of the agreements. in a prehearing conference with respect to the petition, cawc advised the administrative law judge assigned to the matter that it will seek cpuc approval of an alternate proposal. the administrative law judge directed cawc to file, jointly with the mcwd and mcwra if possible, a status report addressing various issues relating to the project, and to submit a compliance filing to address cawc’s plans to move forward on a new project. the filings are due by march 1, 2012. we cannot predict the ultimate effect of the events described above on cawc’s efforts to secure alternative sources of water. if cawc is unable to secure an alternative source of water, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. government restrictions on water use may also result in decreased use of water services, even if our water supplies are sufficient to serve our customers, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. seasonal drought conditions that would impact our water services are possible across all of our service areas. if a regional drought were to occur, governmental restrictions may be imposed on all systems within a region independent of the supply adequacy of any individual system. there were voluntary conservation efforts or water use restrictions implemented during certain periods of 2011 in pennsylvania and new jersey. following drought conditions, water demand may not return to pre-drought levels even after restrictions are lifted. decreased use of water services resulting from any of these events may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. service interruptions due to severe weather events are possible across all our service areas. these include winter storms and freezing conditions, high wind conditions, tornados, earthquakes, high water conditions in or near designated flood plains, hurricanes and severe electrical storms. these weather events may affect the condition or operability of our facilities, limiting or preventing us from delivering water or wastewater services to our customers, or requiring us to make substantial capital expenditures to repair any damage. in the third quarter of 2011, our new jersey and pennsylvania subsidiaries experienced service interruptions in certain of our operating areas and, in some cases, a loss in customers as a result of the extreme weather, including hurricane irene and other severe storms in the northeast. in addition, the devastating tornado that struck joplin, missouri on may 22, 2011 caused extensive damage to our infrastructure and the water distribution system. among other things, we lost our service center and plant storage buildings and suffered damage to the roof and windows at our water treatment plant, as well as to many of our vehicles. in addition, while our water treatment plant remained operational, the lack of electricity forced us to operate on generator power until electric power was restored within the next two days. we also had to address more than 4,000 leaking customer service lines and 25 torn fire service lines. because it was not possible to maintain system pressure initially, the missouri department of natural resources issued a boil water order. the order was lifted after we restored full pressure to the system, flushed the entire system and completed sampling tests, all within six days after the order was issued. any interruption in our ability to supply water or to collect, treat and properly dispose of wastewater, or any costs associated with restoring service, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.   24 table of contents furthermore, losses from business interruptions or damage to our facilities might not be covered by our insurance policies and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. adverse economic conditions can cause our customers, particularly industrial customers, to curtail operations. a curtailment of operations by an industrial customer would typically result in reduced water usage. in more severe circumstances, the decline in usage could be permanent. any decrease in demand resulting from difficult economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. regulatory and environmental risks associated with the collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater may impose significant costs. the wastewater collection, treatment and disposal operations of our subsidiaries are subject to substantial regulation and involve significant environmental risks. if collection or treatment systems fail, overflow, or do not operate properly, untreated wastewater or other contaminants could spill onto nearby properties or into nearby streams and rivers, causing damage to persons or property, injury to aquatic life and economic damages, which may not be recoverable in rates. this risk is most acute during periods of substantial rainfall or flooding, which are the main causes of sewer overflow and system failure. liabilities resulting from such damage could adversely and materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. moreover, if we are deemed liable for any damage caused by overflow, our losses might not be covered by insurance, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. our inability to efficiently implement our business transformation project, could result in higher than expected costs or otherwise adversely impact our operations and profitability. we have undertaken a “business transformation” project, which is intended to improve our business processes and upgrade our antiquated core information technology systems. this multi-year, enterprise-wide initiative is intended to support our broader strategic initiatives. the project is intended to optimize workflow throughout our field operations, improve our back-office operations and enhance our customer service capabilities. the scale and anticipated future costs associated with the business transformation project are significant and we could incur costs significantly in excess of budgeted costs. any technical or other difficulties in developing or implementing this initiative may increase the costs of the project and have an adverse effect on our operations and reporting processes, including our internal control over financial reporting. when we make adjustments to our operations, we may incur incremental expenses prior to realizing the benefits of a more efficient workforce and operating structure. further, we may not realize anticipated cost improvements and greater efficiencies from the project. we can provide no guarantee that we will be able to achieve timely or adequate rate recovery of any increased costs associated with the business transformation project. as of december 31, 2011, expenditures on the project totaled $139.7 million. we anticipate that total expenditures of as much as $280 million will be required to complete the project. currently, we operate numerous information technology systems that have varying degrees of integration, sometimes leading to inefficiencies. therefore, delays in completion of the business transformation project will also delay cost savings and efficiencies expected to result from the project. we may also experience difficulties consolidating our current systems, moving to a common set of operational processes and implementing a successful change management process. these difficulties may impact our ability to meet customer needs efficiently. any such delays or difficulties may have a material and adverse impact on our business, client relationships and financial results. our regulated businesses require significant capital expenditures and may suffer if we fail to secure appropriate funding to make investments, or if we experience delays in completing major capital expenditure projects. the water and wastewater utility business is very capital intensive. we invest significant amounts of capital to add, replace and maintain property, plant and equipment. in 2011, we invested $924.9 million in net   25 table of contents company-funded capital improvements. the level of capital expenditures necessary to maintain the integrity of our systems could increase in the future. we fund capital improvement projects using cash generated from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper programs and issuances of long-term debt and equity securities. we can provide no assurance that we will be able to access the debt and equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all. in addition, we believe that our dividend policy could limit our ability to pursue growth. in particular, the use of cash to pay dividends could affect our ability to make large acquisitions or pursue other growth opportunities that require cash investments in amounts greater than our available cash and external financing resources. in order to fund construction expenditures, acquisitions (including tuck-in acquisitions), principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, and dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy, we expect that we will need additional financing. however, we intend to retain sufficient cash from operating activities after the distribution of dividends to fund a portion of our capital expenditures. if we do not obtain sufficient capital, we may be unable to maintain our existing property, plant and equipment, realize our capital investment strategies, meet our growth targets and successfully expand the rate base upon which we are able to earn future returns on our investment and a return of our investment. even if we have adequate resources to make required capital expenditures, we face the additional risk that we will not complete our major capital expenditures on time, as a result of construction delays or other obstacles. each of these outcomes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our water service and our revenues. demand for our water during the warmer months is generally greater than during cooler months due primarily to additional requirements for water in connection with irrigation systems, swimming pools, cooling systems and other outside water use. throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, demand tends to vary with temperature, rainfall levels and rainfall frequency. in the event that temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than normal, or if there is more rainfall than normal, the demand for our water may decrease and adversely affect our revenues. our inability to access the capital or financial markets could affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs at reasonable cost and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to cash from operations, we rely on our revolving credit facility, commercial paper programs, and the capital markets to satisfy our liquidity needs. in this regard, our principal external source of liquidity is our revolving credit facility. we regularly use our commercial paper program as a principal source of short-term borrowing due to the generally more attractive rates we obtain in the commercial paper market. however, disruptions in the capital markets could limit our ability to access capital. for example, in september 2008, we were unable to access short-term liquidity through our commercial paper program, and were compelled to borrow under our credit facilities with a syndicate of banks. this resulted in an increase in our borrowing costs until the time we again were able to access the commercial paper market. although our difficulties in accessing capital were resolved as the severity of the recent financial crisis subsided, we cannot assume that similar adverse events in the financial markets will not occur again in the future. moreover, while our credit facility lending banks have met all of their obligations, disruptions in the credit markets, changes in our credit ratings, or deterioration of the banking industry’s financial condition could discourage or prevent lenders from meeting their existing lending commitments, extending the terms of such commitments, or agreeing to new commitments. in order to meet our short-term liquidity needs, particularly if borrowings through the commercial paper market are unavailable, we maintain an $840 million revolving credit facility. commitments of $685 million under this revolving credit facility mature on september 15, 2013, and the remaining $155 million of commitments expire on september 15, 2012. our inability to renew or replace these commitments could materially increase our cost of capital and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.   26 table of contents american water capital corp. (“awcc”), our financing subsidiary, had no outstanding borrowings under the credit facilities and $32.0 million of outstanding letters of credit under this credit facility as of february 21, 2012. awcc had $94.7 million of outstanding commercial paper as of february 21, 2012. we cannot assure that our lenders will meet their existing commitments or that we will be able to access the commercial paper or loan markets in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all. longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, reduced financing alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our business. any significant disruption in the capital and credit markets, or financial institution failures could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the market stabilizes or until alternative financing can be arranged. such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, reducing or suspending dividend payments, and reducing other discretionary expenditures. any impediments to our access to the capital markets, failure of our lenders to meet their commitments, increased interest expense, or cash conservation measures resulting from financial market disruptions or otherwise could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, and liquidity. market conditions may unfavorably impact the value of benefit plan assets and liabilities, as well as assumptions related to the benefit plans, which may require us to provide significant additional funding. the performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy significant future obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. these assets are subject to market fluctuations, which may cause investment returns to fall below our projected return rates. a decline in the market value of the pension and postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements under our pension and postretirement benefit plans if future returns on these assets are insufficient to offset the decline in value. additionally, the company’s pension and postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. as interest rates decrease, thereby reducing returns, our liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit expense and funding requirements. further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or increases in life expectancy assumptions may also increase the funding requirements of our obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets may not be fully recoverable in rates, and our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. in addition, market factors can affect assumptions we use in determining funding requirements with respect to our pension and postretirement plans. for example, a relatively modest change in our assumptions regarding discount rates can materially affect our calculation of funding requirements. to the extent that market data compels us to reduce the discount rate used in our assumptions, our benefit obligations could be materially increased, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. our indebtedness could affect our business adversely and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our liquidity needs. as of december 31, 2011, our indebtedness (including preferred stock with mandatory redemption requirements) was $5,905.0 million, and our working capital (defined as current assets less current liabilities) was in a deficit position. our indebtedness could have important consequences, including:     •   limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital requirements or capital expenditures;     •   exposing us to interest rate risk with respect to the portion of our indebtedness that bears interest at a variable rate;     •   limiting our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or make payments in connection with our other obligations;   27 table of contents   •   impairing our access to the capital markets for debt and equity     •   likely requiring that an increasing portion of our cash flows from operations be dedicated to the payment of the principal of and interest on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for future operations, acquisitions, dividends on our common stock or capital expenditures;     •   limiting our ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; and     •   placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that have less debt. in order to meet our capital expenditure needs, we may be required to make additional borrowings under our credit facilities or issue new debt securities in the capital markets. moreover, additional borrowings may be required to refinance outstanding indebtedness. debt maturities and sinking fund payments in 2012 and 2013 are $28.9 million and $112.6 million, respectively. we can provide no assurances that we will be able to access the debt capital markets on favorable terms, if at all. if new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could intensify, limiting our ability to refinance existing debt on favorable terms. we will depend primarily on operations to fund our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt. therefore, our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt service obligations depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. if we do not have sufficient cash flows to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow additional funds or sell additional equity. in addition, if our business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or if we are unable to incur indebtedness sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, we may be unable to plan for or respond to changes in our business, which could cause our operating results and prospects to be affected adversely. work stoppages and other labor relations matters could adversely affect our results of operations. currently, approximately 49% of our workforce is represented by unions. we have 83 collective bargaining agreements in place with 19 different unions representing our unionized employees. we might not be able to renegotiate labor contracts on terms that are favorable to us. any negotiations or dispute resolution processes undertaken in connection with our labor contracts could be delayed or affected by labor actions or work stoppages. labor actions, work stoppages or the threat of work stoppages, and our failure to obtain favorable labor contract terms during renegotiations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. in september 2010, we declared “impasse” in negotiations of our national benefits agreement with most of the labor unions representing employees in our regulated businesses. the prior agreement expired on july 31, 2010; however, negotiations did not produce a new agreement. we implemented our “last, best and final” offer on january 1, 2011 in order to provide health care coverage for our employees in accordance with the terms of the offer. the unions have challenged our right to implement our last, best, and final offer. in this regard, following the filing by the utility workers union of america of an unfair labor practice charge, the national labor relations board (“nlrb”) issued a complaint against us in january 2012, claiming that we implemented the last, best and final offer without providing sufficient notice of the existence of a dispute with the federal mediation and conciliation service, a state mediation agency, and several state departments of labor. we have asserted that we did, in fact, provide sufficient notice. a hearing date on the matter has not been set. in addition, six local unions filed grievances or demands for arbitration under their respective local collective bargaining agreements regarding our implementation of the last, best and final offer. in response, we filed a declaratory judgment action against the local unions in united states district court for the district of new jersey seeking, among other things, an injunction preventing the unions from filing grievances or demanding arbitration under the local collective bargaining agreements with respect to the implementation of our last, best and final offer. three of the unions were removed from the litigation after they agreed to a dismissal with prejudice. two of the unions were removed from the new jersey district court action, and the company is pursuing similar declaratory judgment actions against the unions in united states district courts in pennsylvania and west virginia. we will continue to defend our position in any challenge presented by the unions. in addition to   28 table of contents the expired national benefit agreement, five local union contracts covering approximately 700 employees expired without a new agreement being reached prior to december 31, 2011. one contract relating to employees in st. louis, missouri was negotiated to impasse and our last, best, and final offer was implemented on july 11, 2011. in addition, over one-quarter of our local union contracts will expire during 2012. although no work stoppages have occurred with respect to the expired contracts described above, we cannot provide assurance that a work stoppage or strike will not occur. while we have developed contingency plans to be implemented as necessary if a work stoppage or strike does occur, we cannot assure that a strike or work stoppage would not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.   contamination of our sources of water could result in service interruptions and human exposure to hazardous substances and subject our subsidiaries to civil or criminal enforcement actions, private litigation and cleanup obligations. our water supplies are subject to contamination, including contamination from naturally-occurring compounds, chemicals in groundwater systems, pollution resulting from man-made sources, such as perchlorate and methyl tertiary butyl ether (“mtbe”), and possible terrorist attacks. if one of our water supplies is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the use of that water supply and locate an adequate supply of water from another water source, including, in some cases, through the purchase of water from a third-party supplier. if we are unable to access a substitute water supply in a cost-effective manner, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and reputation may be adversely affected. in addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat the contaminated source through expansion of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. we might not be able to recover costs associated with treating or decontaminating water supplies through rates, or recovery of these costs may not occur in a timely manner. moreover, we could be held liable for environmental damage as well as damages arising from toxic tort or other lawsuits, criminal enforcement actions, contractual obligations or other consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances in our drinking water supplies. the failure of, or the requirement to repair, upgrade or dismantle, any of our dams may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we own approximately 100 dams. a failure of any of those dams could result in injuries and downstream property damage for which we may be liable. the failure of a dam would also adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. any losses or liabilities incurred due to a failure of one of our dams might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. we also are required from time to time to decommission, repair or upgrade the dams that we own. the cost of such repairs can be and has been material. we might not be able to recover such costs through rates. the inability to recover these higher costs or delayed recovery of the costs as a result of regulatory lag can affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. the federal and state agencies that regulate our operations may adopt rules and regulations requiring us to dismantle our dams. in monterey county, california, cawc filed an application with the cpuc in september, 2010 to seek approval for a project to reroute the carmel river and remove the san clemente dam, which is owned by cawc. as part of the application, cawc is seeking recovery of certain historical costs, totaling approximately $26.9 million, related to studies to determine whether the dam could withstand significant flooding and severe earthquakes meeting defined criteria, efforts to develop a project to address seismic issues, the identification and analysis of possible alternative project options, and activities undertaken pursuant to the directives of federal and state government agencies, including the california department of water resources, division of safety of dams (“dsod”), which is acting as the lead agency under the state and federal environmental review laws. on november 10, 2011, a proposed decision (“pd”) was issued by the administrative law judge assigned to the matter. in the pd, the administrative law judge recommended that recovery of virtually all of the historical costs should be denied.   29 table of contents cawc has filed comments with the cpuc contending that the pd is unreasonable, unsupported by and contrary to the evidence, and contrary to law and policy. the pd is currently under review by the cpuc, which has delayed issuing a decision on several occasions and most recently has indicated that it will not vote on a decision until april 19, 2012. while we believe there are sound reasons for the cpuc to modify the pd to permit recovery of the historical costs, in the event recovery is not permitted, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected for the period in which we incur a charge with respect to the write off of the historical costs, most of which currently are recorded as regulatory assets, and our cash flows in future years would be adversely affected. any failure of our network of water and wastewater pipes and water reservoirs could result in losses and damages that may affect our financial condition and reputation. our operating subsidiaries distribute water and collect wastewater through an extensive network of pipes and store water in reservoirs located across the united states. a failure of major pipes or reservoirs could result in injuries and property damage for which we may be liable. the failure of major pipes and reservoirs may also result in the need to shut down some facilities or parts of our network in order to conduct repairs. such failures and shutdowns may limit our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and to meet the water and wastewater delivery requirements prescribed by government regulators, including state pucs with jurisdiction over our operations, and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and reputation. any business interruption or other losses might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. moreover, to the extent such business interruptions or other losses are not covered by insurance, they may not be recovered through rate adjustments. risks associated with our portfolio optimization efforts may adversely affect us. under our portfolio optimization initiative, we will continue to seek to acquire or invest in additional water and/or wastewater systems while disposing of other systems. these transactions are designed to enable us to achieve a more rationalized portfolio, cost structure improvements and an enhanced financial profile. we will consider acquiring systems in markets in the united states where we do not currently operate our regulated businesses and through tuck-ins. we also will continue to seek to enter into related market-based businesses and services that complement our businesses. acquisition transactions may result in:     •   incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities;     •   dilutive issuances of our equity securities;     •   failure to realize anticipated benefits;     •   failure of acquired entities to have or to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting;     •   fluctuations in quarterly results;     •   exposure to unknown risks and liabilities, such as environmental liabilities; and     •   other acquisition-related expenses. with respect to dispositions, we may be unable to sell, on acceptable terms, systems that we no longer believe are suitable for our portfolio. we may also experience difficulty in obtaining required regulatory approvals for acquisitions or dispositions, and any regulatory approvals we obtain may require us to agree to costly and restrictive conditions imposed by regulators. we may not identify all significant risks when reviewing a potential transaction, and we could be exposed to potential liabilities for which we will not be indemnified or, in the case of dispositions, we may be required to continue to assume liabilities with respect to systems that we sell. we also may encounter difficulties in integrating new businesses, including bringing newly acquired businesses up to the necessary level of regulatory compliance, retaining and integrating key personnel, achieving strategic objectives and integrating   30 table of contents acquired assets and technological systems. the demands of identifying and transitioning newly acquired businesses or pursuing investment opportunities may also divert management’s attention from other business concerns and otherwise disrupt our business. any of these risks may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in laws and regulations over which we have no control and changes in certain agreements can significantly affect our business and results of operations. new legislation, regulations, government policies or court decisions can materially affect our operations. the individuals who serve as regulators are elected or are political appointees. therefore, elections which result in a change of political administration or new appointments may also result in changes in the individuals who serve as regulators and the policies of the regulatory agencies that they serve. new laws or regulations, new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, changes in agency policy, including those made in response to shifts in public opinion, or conditions imposed during the regulatory hearing process may affect our business in a number of ways that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity, including the following:     •   making it more difficult for us to raise our rates and, as a consequence, to recover our costs or earn our expected rates of return;     •   changing the determination of the costs, or the amount of costs, that would be considered recoverable in rate cases;     •   changing water quality or delivery service standards or wastewater collection, treatment, discharge and disposal standards with which we must comply;     •   restricting our ability to terminate our services to customers who owe us money for services previously provided or limiting our bill collection efforts;     •   requiring us to provide water services at reduced rates to certain customers;     •   restricting our ability to buy or sell assets or issue securities;     •   changing regulations that affect the benefits we expected to receive when we began offering services in a particular area;     •   changing or placing additional limitations on change in control requirements relating to any concentration of ownership of our common stock;     •   making it easier for governmental entities to convert our assets to public ownership via eminent domain;     •   placing limitations, prohibitions or other requirements on the sharing of information and transactions by or between a regulated utility and its affiliates, including us, our service company and any of our other subsidiaries;     •   restricting or prohibiting our extraction of water from rivers, streams, reservoirs or aquifers; and     •   revoking or altering the terms of the certificates of public convenience and necessity (or similar authorizations) issued to us by state pucs. we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets, causing us to record impairments that may negatively affect our results of operations. our total assets include substantial goodwill. at december 31, 2011, our goodwill totaled $1,195.1 million. the goodwill is primarily associated with the acquisition of american water by an affiliate of our previous owner in 2003 and the acquisition of e’town corporation by a predecessor to our previous owner in 2001. goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price the purchaser paid over the fair value of the net tangible and   31 table of contents intangible assets acquired. goodwill is recorded at fair value on the date of an acquisition and is reviewed annually or more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. as required by the applicable accounting rules, we have taken significant non-cash charges to operating results for goodwill impairments in the past. in the first quarter of 2009, we recorded a non-cash charge to our financial results for a goodwill impairment in the amount of $450.0 million, which reduced net income by $443.0 million. in the aggregate, goodwill impairment charges including those recognized in our discontinued operations taken in each year from 2006 through 2009 totaled approximately $1.93 billion and reduced net income by approximately $1.91 billion. we may be required to recognize an impairment of goodwill in the future due to market conditions or other factors related to our performance. these market events could include a decline over a period of time of our stock price, a decline over a period of time in valuation multiples of comparable water utilities, the lack of an increase in our market price consistent with our peer companies, or decreases in control premiums. a decline in the forecasted results in our business plan, such as changes in rate case results or capital investment budgets or changes in our interest rates, could also result in an impairment charge. recognition of impairments of a significant portion of goodwill would negatively affect our reported results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material and could make it more difficult to maintain its credit ratings, secure financing on attractive terms, maintain compliance with debt covenants and meet expectations of our regulators. the assets of our regulated businesses are subject to condemnation through eminent domain. municipalities and other government subdivisions have historically been involved in the provision of water and wastewater services in the united states, and organized efforts may arise from time to time in one or more of the service areas in which our regulated businesses operate to convert our assets to public ownership and operation through exercise of the governmental power of eminent domain. should a municipality or other government subdivision seek to acquire our assets through eminent domain, we may resist the acquisition. contesting an exercise of condemnation through eminent domain may result in costly legal proceedings and may divert the attention of the affected regulated business’s management from the operation of its business. moreover, out efforts to resist the acquisition may not be successful. if a municipality or other government subdivision succeeds in acquiring the assets of one or more of our regulated businesses through eminent domain, there is a risk that we will not receive adequate compensation for the business, that we will not be able to keep the compensation, or that we will not be able to divest the business without incurring significant one-time charges. we may not be able to fully utilize our u.s. and state net operating loss carryforwards. as of december 31, 2011, we had u.s. federal and state net operating loss (“nol”) carryforwards of approximately $1,187.4 million and $739.8 million, respectively. our federal nol carryforwards begin to expire in 2024, and our state nol carryforwards will expire between 2012 and 2031. our ability to utilize our nol carryforwards is primarily dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient taxable income. moreover, because our previous owner’s divestiture of its stock was considered an “ownership change” under section 382 of the internal revenue code, the amount of nol carryforwards that may be utilized in any year is limited. our management believes the federal nol carryforwards are more likely than not to be recovered and therefore currently require no valuation allowance. at december 31, 2011, $196.1 million of the state nol carryforwards have been offset by a valuation allowance because the company does not believe these nols will more likely than not be realized in the future, and we have, in the past, been unable to utilize certain of our nols. the establishment or increase of a valuation allowance in the future would reduce our deferred income tax assets and our net income.   our actual results may differ from those estimated by management in making its assessment as to our ability to use the nol carryforwards. moreover, changes in income tax laws, the economy and general business environment could affect the future utilization of the nol carryforwards. if we are unable to fully utilize our nol carryforwards to offset taxable income generated in the future, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.   32 table of contents our market-based operations, through american water (excluding our regulated subsidiaries) provide performance guarantees, including financial guarantees or deposits, to our public-sector and public clients, who may seek to enforce the guarantees if our market-based operations do not satisfy certain obligations. under the terms of some of our agreements for the provision of services to water and wastewater facilities with municipalities, other governmental entities and other customers, american water (excluding our regulated subsidiaries) provides guarantees of specified performance obligations of our market-based operations, including financial guarantees or deposits. in the event our market-based operations fail to perform these obligations, the entity holding the guarantees may seek to enforce the performance commitments against us or proceed against the deposit. in that event, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity could be adversely affected. at december 31, 2011, we had remaining performance commitments as measured by remaining contract revenue totaling approximately $3,113.0 million, and this amount is likely to increase if our market-based operations grow. the presence of these commitments may adversely affect our financial condition and make it more difficult for us to secure financing on attractive terms. our market-based operations’ long-term contracts with the department of defense may be terminated for the convenience of the u.s. government and are subject to periodic contract price redetermination. all of our contracts with the department of defense for the operation and maintenance of water and wastewater systems may be terminated, in whole or in part, prior to the end of the 50-year term for convenience of the u.s. government or as a result of default or non-performance by the subsidiary performing the contract. in addition, the contract price for each of these military contracts is subject to redetermination two years after commencement of operations and every three years thereafter. price redetermination is a contract mechanism to periodically adjust the service fee in the next period to reflect changes in contract obligations and anticipated market conditions. any early contract termination or unfavorable price redetermination could adversely affect our results of operations. we operate a number of water and wastewater systems under o&m contracts and face the risk that the owners of those systems may fail to maintain those systems, which may negatively affect us as the operators of the systems. we operate a number of water and wastewater systems under o&m contracts. pursuant to these contracts, we operate the system according to the standards set forth in the applicable contract, and it is generally the responsibility of the owner to undertake capital improvements. in some cases, we may not be able to convince the owner to make needed improvements in order to maintain compliance with applicable regulations. although violations and fines incurred by water and wastewater systems may be the responsibility of the owner of the system under these contracts, those non-compliance events may reflect poorly on us as the operator of the system and damage our reputation, and in some cases, may result in liability to the same extent as if we were the owner. our market-based operations are party to long-term contracts to operate and maintain water and wastewater systems under which we may incur costs in excess of payments received. some of our market-based operations enter into long-term contracts pursuant to which they agree to operate and maintain a municipality’s, federal government’s or other party’s water or wastewater treatment and delivery facilities, which includes responsibility for certain major maintenance for some of those facilities, in exchange for an annual fee. our market-based operations are generally subject to the risk that costs associated with operating and maintaining the facilities, including production costs such as purchased water, electricity, fuel and chemicals used in water treatment, may exceed the fees received from the municipality or other contracting party. in addition, directly or through our market-based subsidiaries, we often guarantee our market-based operations’ obligations under those contracts. losses under these contracts or guarantees may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.   33 table of contents we rely on our information technology (“it”) systems to assist with the management of our business and customer and supplier relationships, and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business. our it systems are an integral part of our business, and a serious disruption of our it systems could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently, which, in turn, could cause our business and competitive position to suffer and adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on our it systems to bill customers, process orders, provide customer service, manage construction projects, manage our financial records, track assets, remotely monitor certain of our plants and facilities and manage human resources, inventory and accounts receivable collections. our it systems also enable us to purchase products from our suppliers and bill customers on a timely basis, maintain cost-effective operations and provide service to our customers. a number of our current it systems are antiquated, and it is increasingly difficult to obtain upgrades to, and support for, these systems. while we intend to replace these systems through the business transformation process described above, for the time being we remain subject to risks that are underscored by the age of our it systems. specifically, our it systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:     •   power loss, computer systems failures, and internet, telecommunications or data network failures;     •   operator negligence or improper operation by, or supervision of, employees;     •   physical and electronic loss of customer data due to security breaches, misappropriation and similar events;     •   computer viruses;     •   intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; and     •   hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters. these events may result in physical and electronic loss of customer or financial data, security breaches, misappropriation and other adverse consequences. in addition, the lack of redundancy for certain of our it systems, including billing systems, could exacerbate the impact of any of these events on us. in addition, we may not be successful in developing or acquiring technology that is competitive and responsive to the needs of our business, and we might lack sufficient resources to make the necessary upgrades or replacements of our outdated existing technology to allow us to continue to operate at our current level of efficiency. we may be required to adopt international financial reporting standards (“ifrs”) or changes in generally accepted accounting principles in the united states (“gaap”) that, among other things, could limit our ability to defer recognition of costs deemed material or otherwise could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. currently, our accounting and financial reporting is based on gaap. in 2008, the sec proposed a series of milestones, sometimes referred to as the “proposed roadmap,” that would guide the sec in determining whether to transition from gaap to ifrs. among matters considered by the sec was a staged transition into ifrs reporting for public companies, beginning for fiscal years ending on or after december 15, 2014 for the largest public companies. however, persons commenting on the proposed roadmap expressed differing views about the proposed approach. in response, the sec issued a statement in february 2010 that, while expressing the sec’s continued support for a single set of high-quality global accounting standards, directed the sec staff to execute a work plan to aid the sec in evaluating the impact that the use of ifrs by u.s. companies would have on the securities market. the sec staff has not yet issued a final report on the work plan. recent statements by the sec staff have indicated that the final report on the work plan may be expected in 2012. it is unclear whether the sec will decide whether, and if so when, ifrs would be incorporated into financial reporting by u.s. public companies. another initiative that has affected financial reporting by u.s. public companies is efforts by the u.s. financial accounting standards board, or the “fasb,” and the international accounting standards board, or the   34 table of contents “iasb,” to develop compatible accounting standards for use in both domestic and cross-border financial reporting. the fasb and iasb have worked on a number of projects to achieve accounting convergence with respect to specific accounting topics, which have resulted in the adoption of some new standards and continuing efforts on other topics. under gaap, we are subject to the accounting procedures to address the effects of certain types of regulation, which, among other things, allow us to defer recognition of certain costs and record them on the balance sheet as regulatory assets if we believe it is probable that we will be allowed to recover those costs through future rate increases. currently, ifrs does not contain provisions equivalent to the current gaap accounting procedures. the adoption of the ifrs standards or the adoption of other new accounting or financial reporting standards, either through the convergence efforts of the fasb and iasb or otherwise, could affect our reported performance, which in turn could unfavorably impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, the transition to and application of new accounting or financial reporting standards could result in increased administrative costs.   item 1b. unresolved