item 1a. risk factors we operate in a market and regulatory environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows and liquidity. risks related to our industry and business our utility operations are subject to extensive economic regulation. decisions by state pucs and other regulatory agencies can significantly affect our business and results of operations. our regulated businesses provide water and wastewater services to our customers through subsidiaries that are economically regulated by state pucs. economic regulation affects the rates we charge our customers and has a significant impact on our business and results of operations. generally, the state pucs authorize us to charge rates that they determine are sufficient to recover our prudently incurred operating expenses, to enable us to finance the addition of new, or the replacement of existing, water and wastewater infrastructure and to provide us the opportunity to earn what they determine to be an appropriate rate of return on our invested capital and a return of our invested capital.   20 table of contents our ability to successfully implement our business plan and strategy depends upon the rates authorized by the various state pucs. we periodically file rate increase applications with state pucs. the ensuing administrative process may be lengthy and costly. we can provide no assurances that our rate increase requests will be approved, or that any approval will be given in a timely manner. moreover, a puc may not approve a rate request to an extent that is sufficient to cover our expenses, including purchased water and costs of chemicals, fuel and other commodities used in our operations; enable us to recover our investment; and provide us an opportunity to earn an appropriate rate of return on our investment, in which case our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity may be adversely affected. even if rates are sufficient, we face the risk that we will not achieve the rates of return on our invested capital and a return of our invested capital to the extent permitted by state pucs. this could occur if water usage is less than anticipated in establishing rates, as billings to customers are, to a considerable extent, based on usage in addition to a base rate, or if our investments or expenses prove to be higher than was estimated in establishing rates. our operations and the quality of water we supply are subject to extensive environmental, water quality and health and safety laws and regulations. compliance with increasingly stringent laws and regulations could impact our operating costs; and violations of such laws and regulations could subject the company to substantial liabilities and costs. our water and wastewater operations are subject to extensive united states federal, state and local laws and regulations and, in the case of our canadian operations, canadian laws and regulations that govern the protection of the environment, health and safety, the quality of the water we deliver to our customers, water allocation rights, and the manner in which we collect, treat, discharge and dispose of wastewater. these requirements include the united states clean water act of 1972, which we refer to as the clean water act, and the united states safe drinking water act of 1974, which we refer to as the safe drinking water act, and similar state and canadian laws and regulations. we are also required to obtain various environmental permits from regulatory agencies for our operations. in addition, state pucs also set conditions and standards for the water and wastewater services we deliver. if we deliver water or wastewater services to our customers that do not comply with regulatory standards, or otherwise violate environmental laws, regulations or permits, or other health and safety and water quality regulations, we could incur substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions or costs, as well as damage to our reputation. in the most serious cases, regulators could force us to discontinue operations and sell our operating assets to another utility or to a municipality. given the nature of our business which, in part, involves supplying water for human consumption, any potential non-compliance with, or violation of, environmental, water quality and health and safety laws or regulations would likely pose a more significant risk to us than to a company not similarly involved in the water and wastewater industry. we incur substantial operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental, water quality and health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations, and their enforcement, generally have become more stringent over time, and new or stricter requirements could increase our costs. although we may seek to recover ongoing compliance costs in our rates, there can be no guarantee that the various state pucs or similar regulatory bodies that govern our regulated businesses would approve rate increases to recover such costs or that such costs will not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. we may also incur liabilities if, under environmental laws and regulations, we are required to investigate and clean up environmental contamination at our properties, including potential spills of hazardous chemicals, such as chlorine, which we use to treat water, or at off-site locations where we have disposed of waste or caused an adverse environmental impact. the discovery of previously unknown conditions, or the imposition of cleanup obligations in the future, could result in significant costs and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. such remediation costs may not be covered by insurance and may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future.   21 table of contents the current regulatory rate setting structure may result in a significant delay, or “regulatory lag,” from the time that we invest in infrastructure improvements, incur increased operating expenses or experience declining water usage, to the time at which we can address these events through the rate case application process; our inability to minimize regulatory lag could adversely affect our business. there is typically a delay, or regulatory lag, between the time one of our regulated subsidiaries makes a capital investment or incurs an operating expense increase and the time when those costs are reflected in rates. in addition, billings permitted by state pucs typically are, to a considerable extent, based on the volume of water usage in addition to a minimum base rate. thus, we may experience a regulatory lag between the time our revenues are affected by declining usage and the time we are able to adjust the rate per gallon of usage to address declining usage. our inability to reduce this regulatory lag could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. the company endeavors to reduce regulatory lag by pursuing positive regulatory policies. for example, six state pucs permit rates to be adjusted outside of the rate case application process through surcharges that address certain capital investments, such as replacement of aging infrastructure. these surcharges are adjusted periodically based on factors such as project completion or future budgeted expenditures, and specific surcharges are eliminated once the related capital investment is incorporated in new puc approved rates. other examples of such programs include states that allow us to increase rates for certain cost increases that are beyond the utility’s control, such as purchased water costs or property taxes, or power, conservation, chemical or other expenditures. these surcharge mechanisms enable us to adjust rates closer to the time costs have been incurred than would be the case under the rate case application process. while these programs have been a positive development and we continue to work for expansion of programs to mitigate regulatory lag, some state pucs have not approved such programs and there is no assurance that any puc will adopt any of them in the future or that existing programs will continue in their current form, or at all, in the future. furthermore, no state has adopted surcharge programs that include all elements of cost that may change between general rate proceedings. for example, no state puc has enabled us to address declining water usage through a surcharge. although we intend to continue our efforts to expand state puc approval of surcharges to address issues of regulatory lag, our efforts may not be successful, in which case our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity may be adversely affected. availability of water supplies, restrictions on use, natural hazards, severe weather conditions, climate variability, competing uses and economic conditions may adversely affect our access to sources of water, the demand for water services or our ability to supply water to customers. our ability to meet the existing and future demand of our customers depends on the availability of an adequate supply of water. as a general rule, sources of public water supply, including rivers, lakes, streams and groundwater aquifers, are held in the public trust and are not owned by private interests. as a result, we typically do not own the water that we use in our operations, and the availability of our water supply is established through allocation rights (determined by legislation or court decisions) and passing-flow requirements set by governmental entities. passing-flow requirements set minimum volumes of water that must pass through specified water sources, such as rivers and streams, in order to maintain environmental habitats and meet water allocation rights of downstream users. allocation rights are imposed to ensure sustainability of major water sources and passing-flow requirements are most often imposed on source waters from smaller rivers, lakes and streams. these requirements, which can change from time to time, may adversely impact our water supply. supply issues, brought on by climate variability, such as drought, overuse of sources of water, the protection of threatened species or habitats, or other factors may limit the availability of ground and surface water. for example, in our monterey county, california operations, we are seeking to augment our sources of water supply, principally to comply with an october 20, 2009 order of the california state water resources control board (the “2009 order”) that our subsidiary, california-american water company (“cawc”), significantly decrease its diversion from the carmel river in accordance with a reduction schedule running through december 31, 2016. we are also required to augment our monterey county sources of water supply to comply with the requirements   22 table of contents of the endangered species act. we have implemented conservation rates and other programs to address demand and are utilizing aquifer storage and recovery facilities to store winter water for summer use. we were hopeful that we could address the water supply issues in a meaningful way through a regional desalination project (the “project”) that was to be implemented through a water purchase agreement and ancillary agreements (the “agreements”) among the marina coast water district (“mcwd”), the monterey county water resources agency (“mcwra”) and cawc. however, the project was subject to considerable delay and disputes among the parties. on july 7, 2011, mcwra advised mcwd and cawc that the agreements were void, and on january 17, 2012, cawc publicly announced that it had withdrawn support of the project. finally, on july 12, 2012, the california public utility commission (“cpuc”) closed the proceedings relating to the project. nevertheless, disputes among the parties with respect to the project continued throughout 2012, and, while cawc and mcwra have entered into a settlement agreement to resolve their disputes, the terms of the settlement agreement are largely contingent on approval, by the cpuc of the settlement agreement, as well as cwac’s recovery through rates of its provision to mcwra of $1.9 million in loan forgiveness and up to approximately $1.5 million in additional payments. moreover cawc’s disputes with mcwd remain unresolved and subject to ongoing litigation. following its withdrawal of support for the project, cawc filed an application with the cpuc on april 23, 2012 for approval of the monterey peninsula water supply project (the “new project”). the new project involves construction of a desalination plant and related facilities, all to be owned by cawc. in addition, the new project may encompass cawc’s purchase of water from the proposed monterey peninsula groundwater replenishment project, a joint project between the monterey regional water pollution control agency and the monterey peninsula water management district (“mpwmd”). in its application, cawc seeks approval to construct a desalination plant that can accommodate 9.6 million gallons per day. however, if the groundwater replenishment project meets certain specified timing and reasonable cost criteria, cawc would make the appropriate filing to reduce the size of the desalination plant so that it accommodates 6.4 million gallons per day. cawc has estimated the total project capital cost for the 9.6 million gallons per day desalination plant and related facilities to be approximately $384 million ($330 million if the size of the plant is reduced to 6.4 million gallons per day). the application also seeks cpuc approval of ratemaking mechanisms designed to enable cawc to recover its costs related to construction and operation of the new project, including funding for principal and interest on a state revolving fund loan that cawc believes it is eligible to receive. cawc’s ability to move forward on the new project will be subject to extensive administrative review, including public hearings before the cpuc and testimony from intervening parties. in addition, a large number of federal, state and local approvals must also be obtained. moreover, on january 29, 2013, cawc provided a letter to the california state water resources control board stating that even if the cpuc were to adhere to its schedule for a final cpuc action with respect to the new project application in december 2013 or january 2014, cawc does not expect to have an operational water supply project that will enable cawc to terminate its unpermitted diversions from the carmel river by december 31, 2016, as required by the 2009 order. we cannot predict the ultimate effect of the events described above on cawc’s efforts to secure alternative sources of water, or on cawc’s exposure to liabilities as a result of its ongoing disputes relating to the project or its inability to meet the december 2016 deadline under the 2006 order. if cawc is unable to secure an alternative source of water, or if other adverse consequences result from the events described above, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. government restrictions on water use may also result in decreased use of water services, even if our water supplies are sufficient to serve our customers, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. seasonal drought conditions that would impact our water services are possible across all of our service areas. if a regional drought were to occur, governmental restrictions may be imposed on all systems within a region independent of the supply adequacy of any individual system. following drought conditions, water demand may not return to pre-drought levels even after restrictions are lifted. decreased use of water services resulting from any of these events may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   23 table of contents service interruptions due to severe weather events are possible across all our service areas. these include winter storms and freezing conditions, high wind conditions, tornados, earthquakes, floods or high water conditions in or near designated flood plains, hurricanes and severe electrical storms. these weather events may affect the condition or operability of our facilities, limiting or preventing us from delivering water or wastewater services to our customers, or requiring us to make substantial capital expenditures to repair any damage. in the third quarter of 2011, our new jersey and pennsylvania subsidiaries experienced service interruptions in certain of our operating areas and, in some cases, a loss in customers as a result of the extreme weather, including hurricane irene and other severe storms in the northeast. in october 2012, our east coast subsidiaries were impacted by the weather conditions from hurricane sandy. although we continue to assess the situation, the damage to our facilities and infrastructure within the states of maryland, new jersey, new york, pennsylvania, virginia and west virginia was quickly addressed. the most significant impact to our business was caused by the widespread power outages caused by the storm’s heavy winds, rain and snow. upon completion of the evaluation of the damages and any associated business interruption losses, claims will be submitted to our insurance carriers. we anticipate expenses that are not covered by insurance are likely recoverable through the rate making process on a state-by-state basis. in addition, the devastating tornado that struck joplin, missouri on may 22, 2011 caused extensive damage to our infrastructure and the water distribution system. among other things, we lost our service center and plant storage buildings and suffered damage to the roof and windows at our water treatment plant, as well as to many of our vehicles. in addition, while our water treatment plant remained operational, the lack of electricity forced us to operate on generator power until electric power was restored within the next two days. we also had to address more than 4,000 leaking customer service lines and 25 torn fire service lines. because it was not possible to maintain system pressure initially, the missouri department of natural resources issued a boil water order. the order was lifted after we restored full pressure to the system, flushed the entire system and completed sampling tests, all within six days after the order was issued. any interruption in our ability to supply water or to collect, treat and properly dispose of wastewater, or any costs associated with restoring service, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, losses from business interruptions or damage to our facilities might not be covered by our insurance policies and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. adverse economic conditions can cause our customers, particularly industrial customers, to curtail operations. a curtailment of operations by an industrial customer would typically result in reduced water usage. in more severe circumstances, the decline in usage could be permanent. any decrease in demand resulting from difficult economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. regulatory and environmental risks associated with the collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater may impose significant costs. the wastewater collection, treatment and disposal operations of our subsidiaries are subject to substantial regulation and involve significant environmental risks. if collection or treatment systems fail, overflow, or do not operate properly, untreated wastewater or other contaminants could spill onto nearby properties or into nearby streams and rivers, causing damage to persons or property, injury to aquatic life and economic damages, which may not be recoverable in rates. this risk is most acute during periods of substantial rainfall or flooding, which are the main causes of sewer overflow and system failure. liabilities resulting from such damage could adversely and materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. moreover, if we are deemed liable for any damage caused by overflow, our losses might not be covered by insurance, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. our inability to efficiently implement our business transformation project, could result in higher than expected costs or otherwise adversely impact our internal controls environment, operations and profitability. we have undertaken a “business transformation” project, which is intended to improve our business processes and upgrade our antiquated core information technology systems. this multi-year, enterprise-wide   24 table of contents initiative is intended to support our broader strategic initiatives. the project is intended to optimize workflow throughout our field operations, improve our back-office operations and enhance our customer service capabilities. the scale and anticipated future costs associated with the business transformation project are significant and we could incur costs significantly in excess of budgeted costs. any technical or other difficulties in developing or implementing this initiative may increase the costs of the project and have an adverse effect on our operations and reporting processes, including our internal control over financial reporting. in august 2012, our new business systems associated with phase i of our business transformation project became operational. phase i consisted of the roll-out of the enterprise resource planning systems (“erp”), which encompass applications that will handle human resources, finance, and supply chain/procurement management activities. phase ii consists of the roll-out of a new enterprise asset management system, which will manage an asset’s lifecycle, and a customer information system, which will contain all billing and data pertaining to american water’s customers for our regulated segment. phase ii is expected to be substantially completed by december 31, 2013. as we make adjustments to our operations as a result of this project, we may incur incremental expenses prior to realizing the benefits of a more efficient workforce and operating structure. although efforts have been made to minimize any adverse impact on our controls, we cannot assure that all such impacts have been mitigated. we can provide no guarantee that we will be able to achieve timely or adequate rate recovery of any increased costs associated with the business transformation project. as of december 31, 2012, we have spent $257.8 million on the project, with $118.1 million spent in 2012. as we make adjustments to our operations, we may incur incremental expenses prior to realizing the benefits of a more efficient workforce and operating structure. further, we may not realize anticipated cost improvements and greater efficiencies from the project. we operate numerous information technology systems that have varying degrees of integration, sometimes leading to inefficiencies. therefore, delays in completion of the business transformation project will also delay cost savings and efficiencies expected to result from the project. we may also experience difficulties consolidating our current systems, moving to a common set of operational processes and implementing a successful change management process. these difficulties may impact our ability to meet customer needs efficiently. any such delays or difficulties may have a material and adverse impact on our business, client relationships and financial results. our regulated businesses require significant capital expenditures and may suffer if we fail to secure appropriate funding to make investments, or if we experience delays in completing major capital expenditure projects. the water and wastewater utility business is very capital intensive. we invest significant amounts of capital to add, replace and maintain property, plant and equipment. in 2012, we invested $928.6 million in net company-funded capital improvements. the level of capital expenditures necessary to maintain the integrity of our systems could increase in the future. we fund capital improvement projects using cash generated from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper programs and issuances of long-term debt and equity securities. we can provide no assurance that we will be able to access the debt and equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all. in addition, we believe that our dividend policy could limit our ability to pursue growth. in particular, the use of cash to pay dividends could affect our ability to make large acquisitions or pursue other growth opportunities that require cash investments in amounts greater than our available cash and external financing resources. in order to fund construction expenditures, acquisitions (including tuck-in acquisitions), principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, and dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy, we expect that we will need additional financing. however, we intend to retain sufficient cash from operating activities after the distribution of dividends to fund a portion of our capital expenditures.   25 table of contents if we do not obtain sufficient capital, we may be unable to maintain our existing property, plant and equipment, realize our capital investment strategies, meet our growth targets and successfully expand the rate base upon which we are able to earn future returns on our investment and a return of our investment. even if we have adequate resources to make required capital expenditures, we face the additional risk that we will not complete our major capital expenditures on time, as a result of construction delays or other obstacles. each of these outcomes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our water service and our revenues. demand for our water during the warmer months is generally greater than during cooler months due primarily to additional requirements for water in connection with irrigation systems, swimming pools, cooling systems and other outside water use. throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, demand tends to vary with temperature, rainfall levels and rainfall frequency. in the event that temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than normal, or if there is more rainfall than normal, the demand for our water may decrease and adversely affect our revenues. market conditions may unfavorably impact the value of benefit plan assets and liabilities, as well as assumptions related to the benefit plans, which may require us to provide significant additional funding. the performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy significant future obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. these assets are subject to market fluctuations, which may cause investment returns to fall below our projected return rates. a decline in the market value of the pension and postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements under our pension and postretirement benefit plans if future returns on these assets are insufficient to offset the decline in value. additionally, the company’s pension and postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. as interest rates decrease, thereby reducing returns, our liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit expense and funding requirements. further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or increases in life expectancy assumptions may also increase the funding requirements of our obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets may not be fully recoverable in rates, and our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. in addition, market factors can affect assumptions we use in determining funding requirements with respect to our pension and postretirement plans. for example, a relatively modest change in our assumptions regarding discount rates can materially affect our calculation of funding requirements. to the extent that market data compels us to reduce the discount rate used in our assumptions, our benefit obligations could be materially increased, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. our indebtedness could affect our business adversely and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our liquidity needs. as of december 31, 2012, our indebtedness (including preferred stock with mandatory redemption requirements) was $5,595.3 million, and our working capital (defined as current assets less current liabilities) was in a deficit position. our indebtedness could have important consequences, including:     •   limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital requirements or capital expenditures;     •   exposing us to interest rate risk with respect to the portion of our indebtedness that bears interest at a variable rate;     •   limiting our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or make payments in connection with our other obligations;   26 table of contents   •   impairing our access to the capital markets for debt and equity     •   likely requiring that an increasing portion of our cash flows from operations be dedicated to the payment of the principal of and interest on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for future operations, acquisitions, dividends on our common stock or capital expenditures;     •   limiting our ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; and     •   placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that have less debt. in order to meet our capital expenditure needs, we may be required to make additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility or issue new debt securities in the capital markets. moreover, additional borrowings may be required to refinance outstanding indebtedness. debt maturities and sinking fund payments in 2013 and 2014 are $116.0 million and $12.8 million, respectively. we can provide no assurances that we will be able to access the debt capital markets on favorable terms, if at all. if new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could intensify, limiting our ability to refinance existing debt on favorable terms. we will depend primarily on operations to fund our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt. therefore, our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt service obligations depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. if we do not have sufficient cash flows to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow additional funds or sell additional equity. in addition, if our business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or if we are unable to incur indebtedness sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, we may be unable to plan for or respond to changes in our business, which could cause our operating results and prospects to be affected adversely. work stoppages and other labor relations matters could adversely affect our results of operations. approximately 50% of our workforce is represented by unions. we have 77 collective bargaining agreements in place with 18 different unions representing our unionized employees. we might not be able to renegotiate labor contracts on terms that are favorable to us. any negotiations or dispute resolution processes undertaken in connection with our labor contracts could be delayed or affected by labor actions or work stoppages. labor actions, work stoppages or the threat of work stoppages, and our failure to obtain favorable labor contract terms during renegotiations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. in september 2010, we declared “impasse” in negotiations of our national benefits agreement with most of the labor unions representing employees in our regulated businesses. the prior agreement expired on july 31, 2010; however, negotiations did not produce a new agreement. we implemented our “last, best and final” offer on january 1, 2011 in order to provide health care coverage for our employees in accordance with the terms of the offer. the unions have challenged our right to implement our last, best, and final offer. in this regard, following the filing by the utility workers union of america of an unfair labor practice charge, the national labor relations board (“nlrb”) issued a complaint against us in january 2012, claiming that we implemented the last, best and final offer without providing sufficient notice of the existence of a dispute with the federal mediation and conciliation service, a state mediation agency, and several state departments of labor. we have asserted that we did, in fact, provide sufficient notice. on october 16, 2012, the nlrb administrative law judge hearing the matter ruled that, although we did provide sufficient notification to the federal mediation and conciliation service, we did not provide notice to state agencies, in violation of the national labor relations act. the administrative law judge ordered, among other things, that we cease and desist from implementing the terms of our last, best and final offer and make whole all affected employees for losses suffered as a result of our implementation of our last, best and final offer. the “make whole” order, if upheld on appeal, would require us to provide backpay plus interest, from january 1, 2011 through the date of the final determination. based on current estimates and assumptions, we estimate the cash impact could be in the range of $2.5 to $3.5 million per year, with the total impact dependent on the length of time the issue remains   27 table of contents unresolved. in november 2012, we filed an exception to the decision of the administrative law judge in order to obtain a review by the full nlrb. although no work stoppages have occurred with respect to the expired contracts described above, we cannot provide assurance that a work stoppage or strike will not occur. while we have developed contingency plans to be implemented as necessary if a work stoppage or strike does occur, we cannot assure that a strike or work stoppage would not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. contamination of our sources of water could result in service interruptions and human exposure to hazardous substances and subject our subsidiaries to civil or criminal enforcement actions, private litigation and cleanup obligations. our water supplies are subject to contamination, including contamination from naturally-occurring compounds, chemicals in groundwater systems, pollution resulting from man-made sources, such as perchlorate and methyl tertiary butyl ether (“mtbe”), and possible terrorist attacks. if one of our water supplies is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the use of that water supply and locate an adequate supply of water from another water source, including, in some cases, through the purchase of water from a third-party supplier. if we are unable to access a substitute water supply in a cost-effective manner, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and reputation may be adversely affected. in addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat the contaminated source through expansion of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. we might not be able to recover costs associated with treating or decontaminating water supplies through rates, or recovery of these costs may not occur in a timely manner. moreover, we could be held liable for environmental damage as well as damages arising from toxic tort or other lawsuits, criminal enforcement actions, contractual obligations or other consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances in our drinking water supplies. the failure of, or the requirement to repair, upgrade or dismantle, any of our dams may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we own approximately 90 dams. a failure of any of those dams could result in injuries and downstream property damage for which we may be liable. the failure of a dam would also adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. any losses or liabilities incurred due to a failure of one of our dams might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. we also are required from time to time to decommission, repair or upgrade the dams that we own. the cost of such repairs can be and has been material. we might not be able to recover such costs through rates. the inability to recover these higher costs or delayed recovery of the costs as a result of regulatory lag can affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. the federal and state agencies that regulate our operations may adopt rules and regulations requiring us to dismantle our dams. any failure of our network of water and wastewater pipes and water reservoirs could result in losses and damages that may affect our financial condition and reputation. our operating subsidiaries distribute water and collect wastewater through an extensive network of pipes and store water in reservoirs located across the united states. a failure of major pipes or reservoirs could result in injuries and property damage for which we may be liable. the failure of major pipes and reservoirs may also result in the need to shut down some facilities or parts of our network in order to conduct repairs. such failures and shutdowns may limit our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and to meet the water and wastewater delivery requirements prescribed by government regulators, including state pucs with jurisdiction over our operations, and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and reputation. any business interruption or other losses might not be covered by insurance policies or   28 table of contents be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. moreover, to the extent such business interruptions or other losses are not covered by insurance, they may not be recovered through rate adjustments. our inability to access the capital or financial markets could affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs at reasonable cost and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to cash from operations, we rely on our revolving credit facility, commercial paper programs, and the capital markets to satisfy our liquidity needs. in this regard, our principal external source of liquidity is our revolving credit facility. we regularly use our commercial paper program as a principal source of short-term borrowing due to the generally more attractive rates we obtain in the commercial paper market. however, disruptions in the capital markets could limit our ability to access capital. while our credit facility lending banks have met all of their obligations, disruptions in the credit markets, changes in our credit ratings, or deterioration of the banking industry’s financial condition could discourage or prevent lenders from meeting their existing lending commitments, extending the terms of such commitments, or agreeing to new commitments. in order to meet our short-term liquidity needs, particularly if borrowings through the commercial paper market are unavailable, we maintain a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility. commitments under this revolving credit facility mature in october 2017 (subject to up to two 1-year extensions at our request). our inability to maintain, renew or replace these commitments could materially increase our cost of capital and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. american water capital corp. (“awcc”), our financing subsidiary, had no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and $27.6 million of outstanding letters of credit under the credit facility as of february 21, 2013. awcc had $295.1 million of outstanding commercial paper as of february 21, 2013. we cannot assure that our lenders will meet their existing commitments or that we will be able to access the commercial paper or loan markets in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all. longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, reduced financing alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our business. any significant disruption in the capital and credit markets, or financial institution failures could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the market stabilizes or until alternative financing can be arranged. such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, reducing or suspending dividend payments, and reducing other discretionary expenditures. any impediments to our access to the capital markets, failure of our lenders to meet their commitments, increased interest expense, or cash conservation measures resulting from financial market disruptions or otherwise could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, and liquidity. changes in laws and regulations over which we have no control and changes in certain agreements can significantly affect our business and results of operations. new legislation, regulations, government policies or court decisions can materially affect our operations. the individuals who serve as regulators are elected or are political appointees. therefore, elections which result in a change of political administration or new appointments may also result in changes in the individuals who serve as regulators and the policies of the regulatory agencies that they serve. new laws or regulations, new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, changes in agency policy, including those made in response to shifts in public opinion, or conditions imposed during the regulatory hearing process may affect our business in a number of ways that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity, including the following:     •   making it more difficult for us to raise our rates and, as a consequence, to recover our costs or earn our expected rates of return;     •   changing the determination of the costs, or the amount of costs, that would be considered recoverable in rate cases;   29 table of contents   •   changing water quality or delivery service standards or wastewater collection, treatment, discharge and disposal standards with which we must comply;     •   restricting our ability to terminate our services to customers who owe us money for services previously provided or limiting our bill collection efforts;     •   requiring us to provide water services at reduced rates to certain customers;     •   restricting our ability to buy or sell assets or issue securities;     •   changing regulations that affect the benefits we expected to receive when we began offering services in a particular area;     •   changing or placing additional limitations on change in control requirements relating to any concentration of ownership of our common stock;     •   making it easier for governmental entities to convert our assets to public ownership via eminent domain;     •   placing limitations, prohibitions or other requirements on the sharing of information and transactions by or between a regulated utility and its affiliates, including us, our service company and any of our other subsidiaries;     •   restricting or prohibiting our extraction of water from rivers, streams, reservoirs or aquifers; and     •   revoking or altering the terms of the certificates of public convenience and necessity (or similar authorizations) issued to us by state pucs. we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets, causing us to record impairments that may negatively affect our results of operations. our total assets include substantial goodwill. at december 31, 2012, our goodwill totaled $1,207.3 million. the goodwill is primarily associated with the acquisition of american water by an affiliate of our previous owner in 2003 and the acquisition of e’town corporation by a predecessor to our previous owner in 2001. goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price the purchaser paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. goodwill is recorded at fair value on the date of an acquisition and is reviewed annually or more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. as required by the applicable accounting rules, we have taken significant non-cash charges to operating results for goodwill impairments in the past. in the aggregate, goodwill impairment charges including those recognized in our discontinued operations taken in each year from 2006 through 2009 totaled approximately $1.93 billion and reduced net income by approximately $1.91 billion. we may be required to recognize an impairment of goodwill in the future due to market conditions or other factors related to our performance. these market events could include a decline over a period of time of our stock price, a decline over a period of time in valuation multiples of comparable water utilities, the lack of an increase in our market price consistent with our peer companies, or decreases in control premiums. a decline in the forecasted results in our business plan, such as changes in rate case results or capital investment budgets or changes in our interest rates, could also result in an impairment charge. recognition of impairments of a significant portion of goodwill would negatively affect our reported results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material and could make it more difficult to maintain our credit ratings, secure financing on attractive terms, maintain compliance with debt covenants and meet expectations of our regulators. the assets of our regulated businesses are subject to condemnation through eminent domain. municipalities and other government subdivisions have historically been involved in the provision of water and wastewater services in the united states, and organized efforts may arise from time to time in one or more of the service areas in which our regulated businesses operate to convert our assets to public ownership and   30 table of contents operation through exercise of the governmental power of eminent domain. should a municipality or other government subdivision seek to acquire our assets through eminent domain, we may resist the acquisition. for example, over the last several years threats of condemnation have been made with respect to certain parts of our water system near chicago, illinois. in 2008, the governing bodies of two illinois municipalities, homer glen and bolingbrook, passed resolutions to pursue a detailed valuation study of the water pipeline that delivers water in those communities. several nearby municipalities joined in this study. homer glen has also commissioned a study to determine the cost and feasibility of condemning illinois-american’s retail distribution system serving that community. five municipalities passed ordinances enabling them to form a water agency to pursue eminent domain, and the agency was officially formed in june 2012. in august 2012, the agency made an offer of $34 million for our pipeline. the water agency later sent a letter increasing its offer to $37.6 million, and provided a copy of an appraisal. in december 2012, the water agency voted in favor of filing an eminent domain lawsuit. in january 2013, the water agency filed an eminent domain case. contesting an exercise of condemnation through eminent domain may result in costly legal proceedings and may divert the attention of the affected regulated business’s management from the operation of its business. moreover, our efforts to resist the acquisition may not be successful. if a municipality or other government subdivision succeeds in acquiring the assets of one or more of our regulated businesses through eminent domain, there is a risk that we will not receive adequate compensation for the business, that we will not be able to keep the compensation, or that we will not be able to divest the business without incurring significant one-time charges. we may not be able to fully utilize our u.s. and state net operating loss carryforwards. as of december 31, 2012, we had u.s. federal and state net operating loss (“nol”) carryforwards of approximately $1,047.8 million and $663.4 million, respectively. our federal nol carryforwards begin to expire in 2028, and our state nol carryforwards will expire between 2013 and 2032. our ability to utilize our nol carryforwards is primarily dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient taxable income. moreover, because our previous owner’s divestiture of its stock was considered an “ownership change” under section 382 of the internal revenue code, the amount of nol carryforwards that may be utilized in any year is limited. our management believes the federal nol carryforwards are more likely than not to be recovered and therefore currently require no valuation allowance. at december 31, 2012, $192.6 million of the state nol carryforwards have been offset by a valuation allowance because the company does not believe these nols will more likely than not be realized in the future, and we have, in the past, been unable to utilize certain of our nols. the establishment or increase of a valuation allowance in the future would reduce our deferred income tax assets and our net income. our actual results may differ from those estimated by management in making its assessment as to our ability to use the nol carryforwards. moreover, changes in income tax laws, the economy and general business environment could affect the future utilization of the nol carryforwards. if we are unable to fully utilize our nol carryforwards to offset taxable income generated in the future, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our market-based operations, through american water (excluding our regulated subsidiaries) provide performance guarantees, including financial guarantees or deposits, to our public-sector and public clients, who may seek to enforce the guarantees if our market-based operations do not satisfy certain obligations. under the terms of some of our agreements for the provision of services to water and wastewater facilities with municipalities, other governmental entities and other customers, american water (excluding our regulated subsidiaries) provides guarantees of specified performance obligations of our market-based operations, including financial guarantees or deposits. in the event our market-based operations fail to perform these obligations, the entity holding the guarantees may seek to enforce the performance commitments against us or proceed against the deposit. in that event, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity could be adversely affected.   31 table of contents at december 31, 2012, we had remaining performance commitments as measured by remaining contract revenue totaling approximately $2,952.4 million, and this amount is likely to increase if our market-based operations grow. the presence of these commitments may adversely affect our financial condition and make it more difficult for us to secure financing on attractive terms. our market-based operations’ long-term contracts with the department of defense may be terminated for the convenience of the u.s. government and are subject to periodic contract price redetermination. all of our contracts with the department of defense for the operation and maintenance of water and wastewater systems may be terminated, in whole or in part, prior to the end of the 50-year term for convenience of the u.s. government or as a result of default or non-performance by the subsidiary performing the contract. in addition, the contract price for each of these military contracts is typically subject to redetermination two years after commencement of operations and every three years thereafter. price redetermination is a contract mechanism to periodically adjust the service fee in the next period to reflect changes in contract obligations and anticipated market conditions. any early contract termination or unfavorable price redetermination could adversely affect our results of operations. we operate a number of water and wastewater systems under o&m contracts and face the risk that the owners of those systems may fail to maintain those systems, which may negatively affect us as the operators of the systems. we operate a number of water and wastewater systems under o&m contracts. pursuant to these contracts, we operate the system according to the standards set forth in the applicable contract, and it is generally the responsibility of the owner to undertake capital improvements. in some cases, we may not be able to convince the owner to make needed improvements in order to maintain compliance with applicable regulations. although violations and fines incurred by water and wastewater systems may be the responsibility of the owner of the system under these contracts, those non-compliance events may reflect poorly on us as the operator of the system and damage our reputation, and in some cases, may result in liability to the same extent as if we were the owner. risks associated with our portfolio optimization efforts may adversely affect us. under our portfolio optimization initiative, we will continue to seek to acquire or invest in additional water and/or wastewater systems while disposing of other systems. these transactions are designed to enable us to achieve a more rationalized portfolio, cost structure improvements and an enhanced financial profile. we will consider acquiring systems in markets in the united states where we do not currently operate our regulated businesses and through tuck-ins. we also will continue to seek to enter into related market-based businesses and services that complement our businesses. acquisition transactions may result in:     •   incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities;     •   dilutive issuances of our equity securities;     •   failure to realize anticipated benefits;     •   failure of acquired entities to have or to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting;     •   fluctuations in quarterly results;     •   exposure to unknown risks and liabilities, such as environmental liabilities; and     •   other acquisition-related expenses. with respect to dispositions, we may be unable to sell, on acceptable terms, systems that we no longer believe are suitable for our portfolio.   32 table of contents we may also experience difficulty in obtaining required regulatory approvals for acquisitions or dispositions, and any regulatory approvals we obtain may require us to agree to costly and restrictive conditions imposed by regulators. we may not identify all significant risks when reviewing a potential transaction, and we could be exposed to potential liabilities for which we will not be indemnified or, in the case of dispositions, we may be required to continue to assume liabilities with respect to systems that we sell. we also may encounter difficulties in integrating new businesses, including bringing newly acquired businesses up to the necessary level of regulatory compliance, retaining and integrating key personnel, achieving strategic objectives and integrating acquired assets and technological systems. the demands of identifying and transitioning newly acquired businesses or pursuing investment opportunities may also divert management’s attention from other business concerns and otherwise disrupt our business. any of these risks may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our market-based operations are party to long-term contracts to operate and maintain water and wastewater systems under which we may incur costs in excess of payments received. some of our market-based operations enter into long-term contracts pursuant to which they agree to operate and maintain a municipality’s, federal government’s or other party’s water or wastewater treatment and delivery facilities, which includes responsibility for certain major maintenance for some of those facilities, in exchange for an annual fee. our market-based operations are generally subject to the risk that costs associated with operating and maintaining the facilities, including production costs such as purchased water, electricity, fuel and chemicals used in water treatment, may exceed the fees received from the municipality or other contracting party. in addition, directly or through our market-based subsidiaries, we often guarantee our market-based operations’ obligations under those contracts. losses under these contracts or guarantees may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. we rely on our information technology (“it”) systems to assist with the management of our business and customer and supplier relationships, and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business. our it systems are an integral part of our business, and a serious disruption of our it systems could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently, which, in turn, could cause our business and competitive position to suffer and adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on our it systems to bill customers, process orders, provide customer service, manage construction projects, manage our financial records, track assets, remotely monitor certain of our plants and facilities and manage human resources, inventory and accounts receivable collections. our it systems also enable us to purchase products from our suppliers and bill customers on a timely basis, maintain cost-effective operations and provide service to our customers. a number of our current it systems are antiquated, and it is increasingly difficult to obtain upgrades to, and support for, these systems. while we intend to replace these systems through the business transformation process described above, for the time being we remain subject to risks that are underscored by the age of our it systems. specifically, our it systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:     •   power loss, computer systems failures, and internet, telecommunications or data network failures;     •   operator negligence or improper operation by, or supervision of, employees;     •   physical and electronic loss of customer data due to security breaches, misappropriation and similar events;     •   computer viruses;     •   intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; and     •   hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters. these events may result in physical and electronic loss of customer or financial data, security breaches, misappropriation and other adverse consequences. in addition, the lack of redundancy for certain of our it systems, including billing systems, could exacerbate the impact of any of these events on us.   33 table of contents in addition, we may not be successful in developing or acquiring technology that is competitive and responsive to the needs of our business, and we might lack sufficient resources to make the necessary upgrades or replacements of our outdated existing technology to allow us to continue to operate at our current level of efficiency.   item 1b. unresolved