item 1a. risk factors we operate in a market and regulatory environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this form 10-k, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations, which, in turn could adversely affect the value of our common stock. risks related to our industry and business our utility operations are subject to extensive economic regulation. decisions by state pucs and other regulatory agencies can significantly affect our business and results of operations. our regulated businesses provide water and wastewater services to our customers through subsidiaries that are economically regulated by state pucs. economic regulation affects the rates we charge our customers and has a significant impact on our business and results of operations. generally, the state pucs authorize us to charge rates that they determine are sufficient to recover our prudently incurred operating expenses, to enable us to finance the addition of new, or the replacement of existing, water and wastewater infrastructure and to allow us the opportunity to earn what they determine to be an appropriate rate of return on our invested capital and a return of our invested capital. our ability to meet our financial objectives depends upon the rates authorized by the various state pucs. we periodically file rate increase applications with state pucs. the ensuing administrative process may be lengthy and costly. we can provide no assurances that our rate increase requests will be granted. even if approved, there is no guarantee that approval will be given in a timely manner or at a sufficient level to cover our expenses and the recovery of our investment and/or provide us an opportunity to earn an appropriate rate of return on our investment and a return of our investment. if the authorized rates are insufficient to cover operating expenses, to allow for the recovery of our investment and to provide an appropriate return on invested capital, or if rate increase decisions are delayed, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity may be adversely affected. even if rates are sufficient, we face the risk that we will not achieve the rates of return on our invested capital and/or a return of our invested capital that are permitted by state pucs as billings to customers are based on usage rather than a fixed amount. our operations and the quality of water we supply are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations. compliance with increasingly stringent laws and regulations could impact our operating costs; and violations of such laws and regulations could subject the company to substantial liabilities and costs. our water and wastewater operations are subject to extensive united states federal, state and local laws and regulations and, in the case of our canadian operations, canadian laws and regulations that govern the protection of the environment, health and safety, the quality of the water we deliver to our customers, water allocation rights, and the manner in which we collect, treat, discharge and dispose of wastewater. these requirements   22 table of contents include the united states clean water act of 1972, which we refer to as the clean water act, and the united states safe drinking water act of 1974, which we refer to as the safe drinking water act, the amendments to and reauthorizations of the clean water and safe drinking water acts, and similar state and canadian laws and regulations. we are also required to obtain various environmental permits from regulatory agencies for our operations. state pucs also set conditions and standards for the water and wastewater services we deliver. if we deliver water or wastewater services to our customers that do not comply with regulatory standards, or otherwise violate environmental laws, regulations or permits, or other health and safety and water quality regulations, we could incur substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions or costs or damage to our reputation. in the most serious cases, regulators could force us to discontinue operations and sell our operating assets to another utility or municipality. given the nature of our business which, in part, involves supplying water for human consumption, any potential non-compliance with, or violation of, environmental laws or regulations would likely pose a more significant risk to us than to a company not similarly involved in the water and wastewater industry. we incur substantial operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws and regulations and other health and safety and water quality regulations. these laws and regulations, and their enforcement, have tended to become more stringent over time, and new or stricter requirements could increase our costs. although we may seek to recover ongoing compliance costs in our rates, there can be no guarantee that the various state pucs or similar regulatory bodies that govern our regulated businesses would approve rate increases to recover such costs or that such costs will not adversely and materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. we may also incur liabilities under environmental laws and regulations requiring us to investigate and clean up environmental contamination at our properties, including potential spills of hazardous chemicals, such as chlorine, which we use to treat water or at off-site locations where we have disposed of waste or caused adverse environmental impacts. the discovery of previously unknown conditions, or the imposition of cleanup obligations in the future, could result in significant costs and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. such remediation costs may not be covered by our insurance policies and may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. changes in laws and regulations over which we have no control and changes in certain agreements can significantly affect our business and results of operations. any governmental entity that regulates our operations may enact new legislation or adopt new regulations or policies at any time, and new judicial decisions may change the interpretation of existing legislation or regulations at any time. the individuals who serve as regulators are elected or are political appointees. therefore, elections which result in a change of political administration or new appointments may also result in changes in the individuals who serve as regulators and the policies of the regulatory agencies that they serve. new laws or regulations, new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, or changes in agency policy, including those as a response to shifts in public opinion, or conditions imposed during the regulatory hearing process may affect our business in a number of ways, including the following:     •   making it more difficult for us to raise our rates and, as a consequence, to recover our costs or earn our expected rates of return;     •   changing the determination of the costs, or the amount of costs, that would be considered recoverable in rate cases;     •   changing water quality or delivery service standards or wastewater collection, treatment, discharge and disposal standards with which we must comply;     •   restricting our ability to terminate our services to customers who owe us money for services previously provided or limiting our bill collection efforts;     •   requiring us to provide water services at reduced rates to certain customers;   23 table of contents   •   restricting our ability to buy or sell assets or issue securities;     •   changing regulatory constructs that impact the benefits we expected to receive when we began offering services in a particular area;     •   changing or placing additional limitations on change in control requirements relating to any concentration of ownership of our common stock;     •   making it easier for governmental entities to convert our assets to public ownership via eminent domain;     •   placing limitations, prohibitions or other requirements on the sharing of information and transactions by or between a utility and its affiliates, including the parent, its service company and any other subsidiary of the parent;     •   restricting or prohibiting our extraction of water from rivers, streams, reservoirs or aquifers; and     •   revoking or altering the terms of the certificates of public convenience and necessity (or similar authorizations) issued to us by state pucs. any of these changes or any other changes in laws, regulations, judicial decisions, or agency policies applicable to us may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. availability of water supplies, restrictions on use, natural hazards, weather conditions and competing uses may interfere with our sources of water, demand for water services and our ability to supply water to customers. our ability to meet the existing and future water demands of our customers depends on an adequate supply of water. as a general rule, sources of public water supply, including rivers, lakes, streams and groundwater aquifers are held in the public trust and are not owned by private interests. as such, we typically do not own the water that we use in our operations, and the availability of our water supply is established through allocation rights (based on statutory or common law principles) and passing-flow requirements set by governmental entities. passing-flow requirements set minimum volumes of water that must pass through specified water sources, such as rivers and streams, in order to maintain environmental habitats and meet water allocation rights of downstream users. allocation rights are imposed to ensure sustainability of major water sources and passing flow requirements are most often imposed on source waters from smaller rivers, lakes and streams. these requirements can change from time to time and adversely impact our water supply. drought, overuse of sources of water, the protection of threatened species or habitats, or other factors may limit the availability of ground and surface water. for example, in our monterey county, ca operations, in order to augment our sources of water supply, we have implemented conservation rates and other programs to address demand and are utilizing aquifer storage and recovery facilities to store winter water for summer use. in december 2010, we obtained approval from the state puc for construction of a regional desalination plant, which is intended to provide an alternate water source for the monterey peninsula. governmental restrictions on water use may also result in decreased use of water services, even if our water supplies are sufficient to serve our customers, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. seasonal drought conditions that would impact our water services are possible across all of our service areas. if a regional drought were to occur affecting our service areas and adjacent systems, governmental restrictions may be imposed on all systems within a region independent of the supply adequacy of any individual system. there were voluntary conservation efforts or water use restrictions implemented during certain periods of 2010 in parts of virginia. following drought conditions, water demand may not return to pre-drought levels even after restrictions are lifted. service interruptions due to severe weather events are possible across all our service areas. these include winter storms and freezing conditions in our colder climate service areas, high wind conditions in our service   24 table of contents areas known to experience tornados, earthquakes in our service areas known to experience seismic activity, high water conditions for our facilities located in or near designated flood plains, hurricanes in our coastal service areas and severe electrical storms which are possible across all of our service areas. these weather events may affect the condition or operability of our facilities, limiting or preventing us from delivering water or wastewater services to our customers, or requiring us to make substantial capital expenditures to repair any damage. any interruption in our ability to supply water or to collect, treat and properly dispose of wastewater, or any costs associated with restoring service, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, losses from business interruptions or damage to our facilities might not be covered by our insurance policies and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. declining water usage per residential customer may reduce our long-term revenues, financial condition and results of operations. increased water conservation, including through the use of more efficient household fixtures and appliances among residential consumers, combined with declining household sizes in the united states, has contributed to a trend of declining water usage per residential customer. our regulated businesses are heavily dependent upon revenue generated from rates we charge to our residential customers for the volume of water they use. the rate we charge for our water is regulated by state pucs, and we may not unilaterally adjust our rates to reflect changes in demand. declining usage will have a negative impact on our long-term operating revenues if we are unable to secure rate increases or to grow our residential customer base to the extent necessary to offset the residential usage decline. regulatory and environmental risks associated with the collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater may impose significant costs. the wastewater collection, treatment and disposal operations of our subsidiaries are subject to substantial regulation and involve significant environmental risks. if collection or sewage systems fail, overflow, or do not operate properly, untreated wastewater or other contaminants could spill onto nearby properties or into nearby streams and rivers, causing damage to persons or property, injury to aquatic life and economic damages, which may not be recoverable in rates. this risk is most acute during periods of substantial rainfall or flooding, which are the main causes of sewer overflow and system failure. liabilities resulting from such damage could adversely and materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. moreover, in the event that we are deemed liable for any damage caused by overflow, our losses might not be covered by insurance policies, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. our regulated businesses require significant capital expenditures and may suffer if we fail to secure appropriate funding to make investments, or if we suffer delays in completing major capital expenditure projects. the water and wastewater utility business is very capital intensive. we invest significant amounts of capital to add, replace and maintain property, plant and equipment. in 2010, we invested $765.6 million in net company-funded capital improvements. we expect the level of capital expenditures necessary to maintain the integrity of our systems could increase in the future. we fund these projects from cash generated from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper programs and through the issuance of long-term debt and equity securities. we can provide no assurances that we will be able to access the debt and equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all. in addition, we believe that our dividend policy could limit, but not preclude, our ability to pursue growth. in particular, this limitation could be significant, for example, with respect to large acquisitions and growth opportunities that require cash investments in amounts greater than our available cash or external financing resources. in order to fund construction expenditures, acquisitions (including tuck-in acquisitions), principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, and pay dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend   25 table of contents policy, we expect that we will need additional financing. however, we intend to retain sufficient cash from operating activities after the distribution of dividends to fund a portion of our capital expenditures. if we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we may fail to maintain our existing property, plant and equipment, realize our capital investment strategies, meet our growth targets and successfully expand the rate base upon which we are able to earn future returns on our investment and a return of our investment. even if we have adequate resources to make required capital expenditures, we face the additional risk that we will not complete our major capital expenditures on time, as a result of construction delays or other obstacles. each of these outcomes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we also face the risk that after we make substantial capital expenditures, the rate increases granted to us by state pucs may not provide a sufficient opportunity to recover our prudently incurred operating expenses and to allow us the opportunity to earn an appropriate rate of return on our invested capital and a return of our invested capital. our business is impacted significantly by weather conditions, which are subject to fluctuations. these fluctuations could adversely affect demand for our water service and our revenues. demand for our water during the warmer months is generally greater than during cooler months due primarily to additional requirements for water in connection with irrigation systems, swimming pools, cooling systems and other outside water use. throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, demand tends to vary with temperature, rainfall levels and rainfall frequency. in the event that temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than normal, if there is more rainfall than normal, and/or rainfall is more frequent than normal, the demand for our water may decrease and adversely affect our revenues. the failure of, or the requirement to repair, upgrade or dismantle, any of our dams may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we own approximately 100 dams. a failure of any of those dams could result in injuries and downstream property damage for which we may be liable. the failure of a dam would also adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. any losses or liabilities incurred due to a failure of one of our dams might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. we also are required from time to time to decommission, repair or upgrade the dams that we own. the cost of such repairs can be and has been material. we might not be able to recover such costs through rates. the inability to recover these higher costs or regulatory lag in the recovery of such costs can affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. the federal and state agencies that regulate our operations may adopt rules and regulations requiring us to dismantle our dams. in monterey county, ca, we filed an application with the california public utilities commission (“cpuc”) on september 22, 2010 to seek approval for removal of the san clemente dam on the carmel river. the application includes a proposal that certain funding for the project would come from state and federal sources. we can provide no assurances that any state or federal funding will be made available. any failure of our network of water and wastewater pipes and water reservoirs could result in losses and damages that may affect our financial condition and reputation. our operating subsidiaries distribute water and collect wastewater through an extensive network of pipes and store water in reservoirs located across the united states. a failure of major pipes or reservoirs could result in injuries and property damage for which we may be liable. the failure of major pipes and reservoirs may also result in the need to shut down some facilities or parts of our network in order to conduct repairs. such failures and shutdowns may limit our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and to meet the water and wastewater delivery requirements prescribed by governmental regulators, including state pucs with   26 table of contents jurisdiction over our operations, and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and reputation. any business interruption or other losses might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. contamination of our sources of water could result in service interruptions and human exposure to hazardous substances and subject our subsidiaries to civil or criminal enforcement actions, private litigation and cleanup obligations. our water supplies are subject to contamination, including contamination from naturally-occurring compounds, chemicals in groundwater systems, pollution resulting from man-made sources, such as perchlorate and methyl tertiary butyl ether (“mtbe”), and possible terrorist attacks. in the event that our water supply is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the use of that water supply until we are able to substitute the supply of water from another water source, including, in some cases, through the purchase of water from a third-party supplier. in addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat the contaminated source through expansion of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. if we are unable to substitute water supply in a cost-effective manner, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and reputation may be adversely affected. we might not be able to recover costs associated with treating or decontaminating water supplies through rates, or such recovery may not occur in a timely manner. moreover, we could be held liable for environmental damage as well as damages arising from toxic tort, contractual obligations or other lawsuits or criminal enforcement actions, or other consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances in our drinking water supplies. our business transformation initiative (“bt”) involves risks, could result in higher than expected costs or otherwise adversely impact our operations and profitability. we have undertaken a business transformation project, which is intended to upgrade our antiquated and manual processes and systems. this multi-year, enterprise-wide initiative is intended to support our broader strategic initiatives. the project is intended to optimize workflow throughout our field operations, improve our back-office operations and enhance our customer service capabilities. the scale and anticipated future costs associated with the business transformation project are significant and we could incur significant costs in excess of what we are planning to spend. any technical or other difficulties in developing or implementing this initiative may result in delays, which, in turn, may increase the costs of the project. when we make adjustments to our operations, we may incur incremental expenses prior to realizing the benefits of a more efficient workforce and operating structure. further, we may not realize the cost improvements and greater efficiencies we hope for as a result of the project. in addition, we can provide no guarantee that we will be able to achieve timely or adequate rate recovery of these increased costs associated with the transformation project. currently, we operate numerous systems that have varying degrees of integration, which can lead to inefficiencies, workarounds and rework. as such, delays in the initiative being put into service will also delay cost savings and efficiencies expected to result from the project. we may also experience difficulties consolidating our current systems, moving to a common set of operational processes and implementing a successful change management process. these difficulties may impact our customers and our ability to meet their needs efficiently. any such delays or difficulties may have a material and adverse impact on our business, client relationships and financial results. our liquidity and earnings could be adversely affected by increases in our production costs, including the cost of chemicals, electricity, fuel or other significant materials used in the water and wastewater treatment process. we incur significant production costs in connection with the delivery of our water and wastewater services. our production costs are driven by purchased water, chemicals used to treat water and wastewater as well as   27 table of contents electricity and fuel, which are used to operate pumps and other equipment used in water treatment and delivery and wastewater collection, treatment and disposal. we also incur production costs for waste disposal. for 2010, production costs accounted for 23.5% of our total operations and maintenance costs. these costs can and do increase, sometimes unexpectedly and in substantial amounts. our regulated businesses might not be able to recover increases in the costs of chemicals, electricity, fuel, other significant inputs or waste disposal through rates, or such recovery may not occur in a timely manner. our market-based businesses may not be able to recover these costs in contract prices or other terms. the inability to recover these higher costs can affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. risks associated with potential acquisitions or investments may adversely affect us. we will continue to seek to acquire or invest in additional regulated water and/or wastewater systems that we believe will permit us to achieve a more rationalized portfolio, cost structure improvements and an enhanced financial profile, including acquiring systems in markets in the united states where we do not currently operate our regulated businesses and through tuck-ins. we will also continue to seek to enter into related market-based businesses and services that complement our businesses. these transactions may result in:     •   incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities;     •   dilutive issuances of our equity securities;     •   failure to have or to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting;     •   fluctuations in quarterly results;     •   exposure to unknown risks and liabilities, such as environmental liabilities; and     •   other acquisition-related expenses. we may also experience difficulty in obtaining required regulatory approvals for acquisitions, and any regulatory approvals we obtain may require us to agree to costly and restrictive conditions imposed by regulators. we may not identify all significant risks when conducting due diligence for a transaction, and we could be exposed to potential liabilities for which we will not be indemnified. there may be difficulties integrating new businesses, including bringing newly acquired businesses up to the necessary level of regulatory compliance, retaining and integrating key personnel, achieving strategic objectives and integrating acquired assets and technological systems. the demands of identifying and transitioning newly acquired businesses or pursuing investment opportunities may also divert management’s attention from other business concerns and otherwise disrupt our business. any of these risks may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks associated with potential disposition of certain assets may adversely affect us. the company is performing a strategic review of its portfolio of regulated and market-based business activities, designed to identify potential opportunities for achieving a more rationalized portfolio, cost structure improvements and an enhanced financial profile. as a consequence of this review, management may determine to seek to dispose of certain assets or operations. the demands of identifying and transitioning newly disposed businesses may divert management’s attention from other business concerns and otherwise disrupt our business. we may also experience difficulty in obtaining required regulatory approvals for dispositions, and any regulatory approvals we obtain may require us to agree to costly and restrictive conditions imposed by regulators. any of these risks may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   28 table of contents capital markets have experienced a significant period of dislocation and instability, which could affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs at reasonable cost and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on our revolving credit facility, commercial paper programs and the capital markets to satisfy our liquidity needs. disruptions in the credit markets, changes in our credit ratings, or deterioration of the banking industry’s financial condition could discourage or prevent lenders from meeting their existing lending commitments, extending the terms of such commitments or agreeing to new commitments. market disruptions may also limit our ability to issue debt securities in the capital markets. in order to meet our short-term liquidity needs we borrowed under our existing $840 million revolving credit facility. commitments under this revolving credit facility of $685 million mature on september 15, 2013, and the remaining $155 million of commitments expire on september 15, 2012. american water capital corp. (“awcc”), our financing subsidiary, had no outstanding borrowings under the credit facilities and $36.4 million of outstanding letters of credit under this credit facility as of february 22, 2011. awcc had $194.7 million of outstanding commercial paper as of february 22, 2011. we can provide no assurances that our lenders will meet their existing commitments or that we will be able to access the commercial paper or loan markets in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all. longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, reduced financing alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our business. any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the market stabilizes or until alternative financing can be arranged. such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, reducing or suspending dividend payments, and reducing other discretionary expenditures. the resulting lack of available credit and increased volatility in the financial markets or changes to our credit ratings could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to manage our liquidity. in particular, as a result of higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities, increased commercial paper borrowing costs, and increased costs related to variable rate debt, the company’s interest expense could increase and adversely impact our results of operations. the capital market disruptions could result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased commercial paper borrowing costs. as a result, continuation of the market disruptions could increase the company’s interest expense and adversely impact our results of operations. market conditions may unfavorably impact the value of benefit plan assets and liabilities which then could require significant additional funding. the performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under the company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans and could significantly impact our results of operations and financial position. the company has significant obligations in these areas and the company holds significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations, which may affect investment returns, that may fall below the company’s projected return rates. a decline in the market value of the pension and postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements under the company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in value. additionally, the company’s pension and postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit expense and funding requirements. further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or increases in life expectancy assumptions may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. also, future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets may not be fully recoverable in rates, and our results of operations and financial position of the company could be negatively affected.   29 table of contents our reliance on third-party suppliers poses significant risks to our business and prospects. we contract with third parties for goods and services that are essential to our operations, such as maintenance services, pipes, chemicals, electricity, water, gasoline, diesel and other materials. we are subject to substantial risks because of our reliance on these suppliers. for example:     •   our suppliers may not provide raw materials that meet our specifications in sufficient quantities;     •   our suppliers may provide us with water that does not meet applicable quality standards or is contaminated;     •   our suppliers may face production delays due to natural disasters, strikes, lock-outs, or other such actions;     •   one or more suppliers could make strategic changes in the lines of products and services they offer; and     •   some of our suppliers, such as small companies, may be more likely to experience financial and operational difficulties than larger, well-established companies, because of their limited financial and other resources. as a result of any of these factors, we may be required to find alternative suppliers for the raw materials and services on which we rely. accordingly, we may experience delays in obtaining appropriate raw materials and services on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities from such alternative suppliers at a reasonable price, which could interrupt services to our customers and adversely affect our revenues, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets, causing us to record impairments that may negatively affect our results of operations or require us to effect additional dilutive equity issuances. our total assets include substantial goodwill. at december 31, 2010, our goodwill totaled $1,250.7 million. the goodwill is primarily associated with the acquisition of american water by an affiliate of rwe in 2003 and the acquisition of e’town corporation in 2001. goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price the purchaser paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. goodwill is recorded at fair value on the date of an acquisition and is reviewed annually or more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. annual impairment reviews are performed at november 30 of each year and interim reviews are performed when management determines that a triggering event has occurred. we have been required to reflect, as required by the applicable accounting rules, non-cash charges to operating results for goodwill impairments in the past. in the first quarter of 2009, we recorded a non-cash charge to operating results for a goodwill impairment in the amount of $450.0 million. in addition, we recorded non-cash charges to operating results for a goodwill impairment in the amounts of $750.0 million, $509.3 million and $227.8 million for the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. these amounts include impairments relating to discontinued operations. as a result of these impairments, net income was reduced by $443.0 million, $738.5 million, $501.5 million and $223.6 million in 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the company may be required to recognize an impairment of goodwill in the future due to market conditions or other factors related to the company’s performance. these market events could include a decline over a period of time of the company’s stock price, a decline over a period of time in valuation multiples of comparable water utilities, the lack of an increase in the company’s market price consistent with its peer companies or decreases in control premiums. a decline in the forecasted results in our business plan, such as changes in rate case results or capital investment budgets or changes in our interest rates, could also result in an impairment charge. recognition of impairments of a significant portion of goodwill would negatively affect the company’s reported results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material and could make it more difficult to maintain its credit ratings, secure financing on attractive terms, maintain compliance with debt covenants and meet expectations of our regulators.   30 table of contents our regulated businesses compete with governmental entities, other regulated utilities, as well as strategic and financial buyers, for acquisition opportunities, which may hinder our ability to grow our business. we compete with governmental entities, other regulated utilities, as well as strategic and financial buyers, for acquisition opportunities, including tuck-ins. our competitors may impede our growth by purchasing water utilities near our existing operations, thereby preventing us from acquiring them. competing governmental entities, utilities and strategic and financial buyers have challenged, and may in the future challenge, our applications for new service territories. our growth could be hindered if we are not able to compete effectively for new territories with other companies or strategic and financial buyers that have lower costs of operations or that can submit more attractive bids. the assets of our regulated businesses are subject to condemnation through eminent domain. municipalities and other government subdivisions have historically been involved in the provision of water and wastewater services in the united states, and organized movements may arise from time to time in one or more of the service areas in which our regulated businesses operate to convert our assets to public ownership and operation through the governmental power of eminent domain. should a municipality or other government subdivision seek to acquire our assets through eminent domain, we may resist the acquisition. contesting an exercise of condemnation through eminent domain may result in costly legal proceedings and may divert the attention of the affected regulated business’s management from the operation of its business. on september 5, 2008, under threat of condemnation, cawc sold the assets of our felton, california water system, which served approximately 1,330 customers, to the san lorenzo valley water district. if a municipality or other government subdivision succeeds in acquiring the assets of one or more of our regulated businesses through eminent domain, there is a risk that we will not receive adequate compensation for the business, that we will not be able to keep the compensation, or that we will not be able to divest the business without incurring significant one-time charges. we may not be able to fully utilize our u.s. and state net operating loss carryforwards. as of december 31, 2010, we had u.s. federal and state net operating loss (“nol”) carryforwards of approximately $1,185.3 million and $714.7 million, respectively. our federal nol carryforwards begin to expire in 2024, and our state nol carryforwards will expire between 2011 and 2030. our ability to utilize our nol carryforwards is primarily dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient taxable income. moreover, because the rwe divestiture was considered an “ownership change” under section 382 of the internal revenue code, the amount of nol carryforwards that may be utilized in any year is limited. our management believes the federal nol carryforwards are more likely than not to be recovered and currently require no valuation allowance. the establishment or increase of a valuation allowance would increase our deferred income tax assets and reduce our net income. however, at december 31, 2010, $274.3 million of the state nol carryforwards have been offset by a valuation allowance because the company does not believe these nols are more likely than not be realized in the future. our actual results may differ from those estimated by management in making its assessment as to our ability to use the nol carryforwards. moreover, changes in income tax laws, the economy and general business environment could affect the future utilization of the nol carryforwards. if we are unable to fully utilize our nol carryforwards to offset taxable income generated in the future, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our market-based operations, through american water (excluding our regulated subsidiaries), provide performance guarantees and other forms of financial security to our public-sector and public clients that could be claimed by our clients or potential clients if we do not meet certain obligations. under the terms of some of our indebtedness and some of our agreements for the provision of services to water and wastewater facilities with municipalities, other governmental entities and other customers, american water (excluding its regulated subsidiaries) provides guarantees of the performance of our market-based operations, including financial guarantees or deposits, to ensure performance of certain obligations. at   31 table of contents december 31, 2010, we had remaining performance commitments as measured by remaining contract revenue totaling approximately $3,279.0 million, and this amount is likely to increase if our market-based operations grow. the presence of these commitments may adversely affect our financial condition and make it more difficult for us to secure financing on attractive terms. all of our contracts with the department of defense for the operation and maintenance of water and wastewater systems may be terminated, in whole or in part, prior to the end of the 50-year term for convenience of the u.s. government or as a result of default or non-performance by the subsidiary performing the contract. the contract price for each of these military contracts is subject to redetermination two years after commencement of operations and every three years thereafter. price redetermination is a contract mechanism to periodically adjust the service fee in the next period to reflect changes in contract obligations and anticipated market conditions. in addition, if the obligor on the instrument fails to perform certain obligations to the satisfaction of the party that holds the performance commitments, that party may seek to enforce the performance commitments against us or proceed against the deposit. in that event, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be adversely affected. we operate a number of water and wastewater systems under o&m contracts and face the risk that the owners of those systems may fail to maintain those systems, which will negatively affect us as the operators of the systems. we operate a number of water and wastewater systems under o&m contracts. pursuant to these contracts, we operate the system according to the standards set forth in the applicable contract, and it is generally the responsibility of the owner to undertake capital improvements. in some cases, we may not be able to convince the owner to make needed improvements in order to maintain compliance with applicable regulations. although violations and fines incurred by water and wastewater systems may be the responsibility of the owner of the system under these contracts, those non-compliance events may reflect poorly on us as the operator of the system and damage our reputation, and in some cases, may result in liability to the same extent as if we were the owner. our market-based operations are party to long-term contracts to operate and maintain water and wastewater systems under which we may incur costs in excess of payments received. some of our market-based operations enter into long-term contracts pursuant to which they agree to operate and maintain a municipality’s, federal government’s or other party’s water or wastewater treatment and delivery facilities, which includes responsibility for certain major maintenance for some of those facilities, in exchange for an annual fee. our market-based operations are generally subject to the risk that costs associated with operating and maintaining the facilities may exceed the fees received from the municipality or other contracting party. in addition, directly or through our market-based subsidiaries, we often guarantee our market-based operations’ obligations under those contracts. losses under these contracts or guarantees may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. we rely on our information technology (“it”) systems to assist with the management of our business and customer and supplier relationships, and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business. our it systems are an integral part of our business, and a serious disruption of our it systems could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently, which, in turn, could cause our business and competitive position to suffer and cause our results of operations to be reduced. we depend on our it systems to bill customers, process orders, provide customer service, manage construction projects, manage our financial records, track assets, remotely monitor certain of our plants and facilities and manage human resources, inventory and accounts receivable collections. our it systems also allow us to purchase products from our suppliers and bill customers on a timely basis, maintain cost-effective operations and provide service to our customers. our it systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:     •   power loss, computer systems failures, and internet, telecommunications or data network failures;     •   operator negligence or improper operation by, or supervision of, employees;     •   physical and electronic loss of customer data due to security breaches, misappropriation and similar events;   32 table of contents   •   computer viruses;     •   intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; and     •   hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters. such damages or interruptions may result in physical and electronic loss of customer or financial data, security breaches, misappropriation and similar events. in addition, the lack of redundancy for certain of our it systems, including billing systems, could exacerbate the impact on the company of any of the foregoing events. in addition, we may not be successful in developing or acquiring technology that is competitive and responsive to the needs of our business, and we might lack sufficient resources to make the necessary upgrades or replacements of our outdated existing technology to allow us to continue to operate at our current level of efficiency. our indebtedness could affect our business adversely and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our liquidity needs. as of december 31, 2010, our indebtedness (including preferred stock with mandatory redemption requirements) was $5,708.0 million, and our working capital (defined as current assets less current liabilities) was in a deficit position. our indebtedness could have important consequences, including:     •   limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital or capital expenditures;     •   exposing us to interest rate risk with respect to the portion of our indebtedness that bears interest at a variable rate;     •   limiting our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or make payments in connection with our other obligations;     •   likely requiring that a portion of our cash flows from operations be dedicated to the payment of the principal of and interest on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for future operations, acquisitions, dividends on our common stock or capital expenditures;     •   limiting our ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; and     •   placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that have less debt. in order to meet our capital expenditure needs, we may be required to make additional borrowings under our credit facilities or be required to issue new debt securities in the capital markets. we can provide no assurances that we will be able to access the debt capital markets or do so on favorable terms. if new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could intensify, limiting our ability to refinance existing debt on favorable terms. we will depend primarily on operations to fund our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt. our ability to meet our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. if we do not have sufficient cash flows to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow additional funds or sell additional equity. if our business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or if we are unable to incur indebtedness sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, we may be unable to plan for or respond to changes in our business that would prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business and cause our operating results and prospects to be affected adversely. our failure to comply with restrictive covenants under our credit facilities could trigger prepayment obligations. our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants under our credit facilities could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay or refinance (on less favorable terms)   33 table of contents these borrowings before their due date. if we are forced to repay or refinance (on less favorable terms) these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and rates. in 2007, we were not in compliance with reporting covenants contained in some of the debt agreements of our subsidiaries. such defaults under the reporting covenants were caused by our delay in producing our 2006 quarterly and audited annual consolidated financial statements. we have obtained all necessary waivers under the agreements. we can provide no assurance that we will comply in the future with all our reporting covenants and will not face an event of default under our debt agreements, or that such default will be cured or waived. work stoppages and other labor relations matters could adversely affect our results of operations. currently, approximately 3,700 of our employees, or 49% of our total workforce, are unionized and represented by 18 different unions. approximately one-third of our 84 union collective bargaining agreements expire annually, with 38 agreements covering 1,546 employees scheduled to expire before the end of 2011. we might not be able to renegotiate labor contracts on terms that are favorable to us and negotiations or dispute resolutions undertaken in connection with our labor contracts could be delayed or become subject to the risk of labor actions or work stoppages. labor actions, work stoppages or the threat of work stoppages, and our failure to obtain favorable labor contract terms during renegotiations may all adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. in 2010, we declared “impasse” in negotiations of our national benefits agreement with most of the labor unions representing employees in our regulated businesses. the prior agreement expired on july 31, 2010, however negotiations did not produce a new agreement. the company implemented our “last, best and final” offer in order not to disrupt health care coverage for our employees. we cannot provide assurance that a work stoppage or strike would not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. material weaknesses in the company’s internal controls over financial reporting existed during 2009. if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or on a timely basis. any inability to report and file our financial results in an accurate and timely manner could harm our business and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. as a public company, we are required to comply with the sarbanes-oxley act and other rules and regulations that govern public companies. in particular, we are required to certify our compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act for the year ended december 31, 2010, which requires us to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“gaap”). however, from 2003 until the completion of our initial public offering in april 2008, as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of rwe, we were not required to maintain a system of effective internal controls or comply with the requirements of the sec and the sarbanes-oxley act, nor to prepare our own consolidated financial statements. in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements as of december 31, 2006, we and our independent registered public accountants identified six material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, each of which could have resulted in a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements. since that time, we have addressed all areas of material weakness. as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2010, we and our independent registered public accountants have tested the effectiveness of controls designated to address the weaknesses and, based on the results of these tests, no longer consider these control deficiencies to be material weaknesses. for further discussion, see “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—our internal control and remediation initiatives.” moreover, we cannot provide assurance that we have identified all, or that we will not in the future have additional, material weaknesses, any of which may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, and cause future delays in filing our financial statements and periodic reports with the sec. any such delays in the filing of our financial statements and   34 table of contents periodic reports may result in a loss of public confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and sanctions could be imposed on us by the sec. we believe that any such misstatements or delays could negatively impact our liquidity, access to capital markets, financial condition and the market value of our common stock or cause a downgrade in the credit ratings of american water or awcc. we may be required to adopt international financial reporting standards (“ifrs”), or other accounting or financial reporting standards, the ultimate adoption of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we could be required to adopt ifrs or other accounting or financial reporting standards different from gaap in the united states of america, which is currently applicable to our accounting and financial reporting. in 2008, the sec released a timetable for the adoption of ifrs according to which we could be required to adopt ifrs by 2016. under gaap, we are subject to the accounting procedures for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation, which, among other things, allow us to defer certain costs if we believe it is probable that we will be allowed to recover those costs by future rate increases. currently, ifrs does not contain provisions equivalent to the current gaap accounting procedures. the implementation and adoption of new accounting or financial reporting standards could affect our reported performance, which in turn could favorably or unfavorably impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, the transition to and application of new accounting or financial reporting standards could result in increased administrative costs. derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. we are party to an interest rate swap contract with a financial institution to hedge against the fair value of our debt and may enter into additional interest rate swap contracts in the future. changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments are not cash flow hedges and, thus, are reported in income, and accordingly could materially affect our reported income in any period. in addition, our hedging strategy may not be effective to mitigate adverse effects on our profitability during any period in which interest rates change, and the costs of this hedging strategy may exceed the benefits. moreover, in the light of current economic uncertainty and financial institution failures in the recent past, we may be exposed to the risk that our counterparty in a derivative transaction may be unable to perform its obligations as a result of being placed in receivership or otherwise. in the event that a counterparty to a material derivative transaction is unable to perform its obligations thereunder, we may experience material losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the global economic and financial market environment may adversely affect our business and operations. the existing and continuing global economic and financial market environment has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer net worth, all of which could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our customers and suppliers may or will be severely affected by the current economic turmoil. current or potential customers and suppliers may no longer be in business, may be unable to continue to pay for our services or may decide to reduce their consumption of our services, all of which could lead to reduced demand for our services, reduced operating income, an increased incidence of customer payment delays, or defaults for services delivered. further, suppliers may not be able to supply us in a timely manner, may increase prices, or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet consumer demand. as such, a continuing negative global economic and financial market environment could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   item 1b. unresolved