item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. we have experienced recurring losses since inception, resulting in cumulative losses of approximately $9.8 million through december 31, 2010. our financial statements have been prepared on the assumption that we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the normal course of business. however, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. we will need to obtain additional capital to continue as a going concern and to fund our operations, including to:     •   continue to fund, or initiate funding for, clinical trials of optina, vasaloc and ampion;     •   pursue a collaborator for zertane, assuming closing of the biosciences acquisition;     •   further develop and assess the clinical utility of the orp device;     •   develop additional product candidates;     •   conduct additional clinical research and development;     •   pursue existing and new claims covered by intellectual property we own or license; and     •   sustain our corporate overhead requirements, and hire and retain necessary personnel. until we can generate revenue from collaboration agreements to finance our cash requirements, which we may not accomplish, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through offerings of our debt or equity securities. we have no collaboration agreements currently in effect. we do not know whether additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. if we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope, or eliminate development of one or more of our product candidates, or substantially curtail or close our operations altogether. alternatively, we may have to obtain a collaborator for one or more of our product candidates at an earlier stage of development, which could lower the economic value of those product candidates to us. we expect our net losses to continue for at least several years and are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. we have experienced significant net losses since inception. as of december 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $9.8 million and a stockholders’ deficit of approximately $4.0 million. we expect our annual net losses to continue over the next several years as we advance development programs and incur significant clinical development costs. we have not received, and do not expect to receive for several years, any revenues from the commercialization of our product candidates. we anticipate that licensing and collaboration arrangements, which may provide us with potential milestone payments and royalties, will be our primary source of revenues for the next several years. we cannot be certain that additional licensing or collaboration arrangements will be concluded, or that the terms of those arrangements will result in our receiving material revenues. to obtain revenues from product candidates, we must succeed, either alone or with others, in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, and manufacturing and marketing drugs with significant market potential. we may never succeed in these activities, and may never generate revenues that are significant enough to achieve profitability. if we do not secure collaborations with strategic partners to test, commercialize and manufacture product candidates, we will not be able to successfully develop products and generate meaningful revenues. a key aspect of our strategy is to selectively enter into collaborations with third parties to conduct clinical testing, commercialize and manufacture product candidates. we have no collaboration agreements currently in effect. collaboration agreements typically call for milestone payments that depend on successful demonstration of efficacy and safety, obtaining regulatory approvals, and clinical trial results. collaboration revenues such as those generated by biosciences in the past are not guaranteed, even when efficacy and safety are demonstrated. the current economic environment may result in potential collaborators electing to reduce their external spending, which may prevent us from developing our product candidates.   19 table of contents even if we succeed in securing collaborators, the collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products using our product candidates or technologies because they:     •   do not have sufficient resources or decide not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints such as budget limitations, lack of human resources, or a change in strategic focus;     •   believe our intellectual property or the product candidate may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others;     •   dispute their responsibility to conduct development and commercialization activities pursuant to the applicable collaboration, including the payment of related costs or the division of any revenues;     •   decide to pursue a competitive product developed outside of the collaboration;     •   cannot obtain, or believe they cannot obtain, the necessary regulatory approvals;     •   delay the development or commercialization of our product candidates in favor of developing or commercializing another party’s product candidate; or     •   decide to terminate or not to renew the collaboration for these or other reasons. for example, the collaborator that licensed zertane from biosciences conducted clinical trials which biosciences believes demonstrated efficacy in treating pe, but the collaborator undertook a merger that biosciences believe altered its strategic focus. the merger also created a potential conflict with a principal customer of the acquired company, which sells a product to treat pe in certain european markets. as biosciences experienced in this instance, collaboration agreements are generally terminable without cause on short notice. once a collaboration agreement is signed, it may not lead to commercialization of a product candidate. we also face competition in seeking out new collaborators. if we are unable to secure new collaborations that achieve the collaborator’s objectives and meet our expectations, we may be unable to advance our product candidates and may not generate meaningful revenues. optina, vasaloc and ampion will soon undergo clinical trials that are time-consuming and expensive, the outcomes of which are unpredictable , and for which there is a high risk of failure. preclinical testing and clinical trials are long, expensive and unpredictable processes that can be subject to delays. it may take several years to complete the preclinical testing and clinical development necessary to commercialize a drug, and delays or failure can occur at any stage. interim results of clinical trials do not necessarily predict final results, and success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials even after promising results in earlier trials. our product development programs are at various stages of development. we recently signed a contract with st. michael’s hospital, toronto, canada, under which st. michael’s will conduct a phase ii trial for our product candidate optina for the treatment of diabetic macular edema, an early stage of diabetic retinopathy. we intend also to commence a phase ii clinical trial for vasaloc, our product candidate to treat diabetic nephropathy, by the first quarter of 2011. we are currently preparing to seek approval for a phase ii double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of the product candidate ampion for the treatment of chronic inflammatory and autoimmune disease. an unfavorable outcome in one or more trials for optina, vasaloc, or ampion would be a major set-back for the development programs for these product candidates and for us. due to our limited financial resources, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these trials may require us to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one of these product development programs, which could have a material adverse effect on us and the value of our common stock. we anticipate that clinical trials of optina and vasaloc will take at least six to nine months to complete, and clinical trials of ampion will take between 18 to 24 months to complete. we are currently in development and testing of various compounds, including various derivatives of methylphenidates, a diketopiperazine, or da-dkp, and several types of metal-binding compounds. we also are now prototyping the orp device to measure oxidation and antioxidation levels in the blood. in connection with clinical testing and trials, we face risks that:     •   a product candidate is ineffective, inferior to existing approved medicines, unacceptably toxic, or has unacceptable side effects;     •   patients may die or suffer other adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to the product candidate being tested;   20 table of contents   •   the results may not confirm the positive results of earlier testing or trials; and     •   the results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda, or other regulatory agencies. the results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict clinical success, and larger and later-stage clinical studies may not produce the same results as earlier-stage clinical studies. frequently, product candidates developed by pharmaceutical companies have shown promising results in early preclinical or clinical studies, but have subsequently suffered significant setbacks or failed in later clinical studies. in addition, clinical studies of potential products often reveal that it is not possible or practical to continue development efforts for these product candidates. if we do not successfully complete preclinical and clinical development, we will be unable to market and sell products derived from our product candidates and generate revenues. even if we do successfully complete clinical trials, those results are not necessarily predictive of results of additional trials that may be needed before a new drug application, or nda, may be submitted to the fda. although there are a large number of drugs in development in the u.s. and other countries, only a small percentage result in the submission of an nda to the fda, even fewer are approved for commercialization, and only a small number achieve widespread physician and consumer acceptance following regulatory approval. if our clinical studies are substantially delayed or fail to prove the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates in development, we may not receive regulatory approval of any of these product candidates and our business and financial condition will be materially harmed. delays, suspensions and terminations in our clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate revenues. human clinical trials are very expensive, time-consuming, and difficult to design, implement and complete. we expect clinical trials of its product candidates will take from six to 24 months to complete, but the completion of trials for our product candidates may be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in:     •   demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial;     •   reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites;     •   manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate;     •   obtaining approval of an investigational new drug application, or ind, from the fda;     •   obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective clinical trial site;     •   determining dosing and making related adjustments; and     •   patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical trial sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. the commencement and completion of clinical studies for our product candidates may be delayed, suspended or terminated due to a number of factors, including:     •   lack of effectiveness of product candidates during clinical studies;     •   adverse events, safety issues or side effects relating to the product candidates or their formulation;     •   inability to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts to continue clinical trials or development programs, which are very expensive;     •   the need to sequence clinical studies as opposed to conducting them concomitantly in order to conserve resources;     •   our inability to enter into collaborations relating to the development and commercialization of our product candidates;     •   failure by us or our collaborators to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements;     •   our inability or the inability of our collaborators to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient for use in preclinical and clinical studies;     •   governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines, including mandated changes in the scope or design of clinical trials or requests for supplemental information with respect to clinical trial results;   21 table of contents   •   failure of our collaborators to advance our product candidates through clinical development;     •   delays in patient enrollment, variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical studies, and lower-than anticipated retention rates for patients in clinical trials;     •   difficulty in patient monitoring and data collection due to failure of patients to maintain contact after treatment;     •   a regional disturbance where we or our collaborative partners are enrolling patients in our clinical trials, such as a pandemic, terrorist activities or war, or a natural disaster; and     •   varying interpretations of data by the fda and similar foreign regulatory agencies. many of these factors may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a current or potential product candidate. if we experiences delay, suspensions or terminations in a clinical trial, the commercial prospects for the related product candidate will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. if our product candidates are not approved by the fda, we will be unable to commercialize them in the united states. the fda must approve any new medicine before it can be marketed and sold in the united states. we must provide the fda with data from preclinical and clinical studies that demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for a defined indication before they can be approved for commercial distribution. we will not obtain this approval for a product candidate unless and until the fda approves a nda. the processes by which regulatory approvals are obtained from the fda to market and sell a new or repositioned product are complex, require a number of years and involve the expenditure of substantial resources. we cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will receive fda approval in the future, and the time for receipt of any such approval is currently incapable of estimation. we intend to seek fda approval for most of our product candidates using an expedited process established by the fda, but we may be asked to submit additional information to support a proposed change of a previously approved drug, which may substantially increase clinical trial costs, postpone any fda product approvals, and delay our receipt of any product revenues. assuming successful completion of clinical trials, we expect to submit ndas to the fda for optina, vasaloc, and zertane at various times in the future under §505(b)(2) of the food, drug and cosmetic act, as amended, or the fdca. ndas submitted under this section are eligible to receive fda new drug approval by relying in part on the fda’s findings for a previously approved drug. the fda’s 1999 guidance on §505(b)(2) applications states that new indications for a previously approved drug, a new combination product, a modified active ingredient, or changes in dosage form, strength, formulation, and route of administration of a previously approved product are encompassed within the §505(b)(2) nda process. relying on §505(b)(2) is advantageous because this section of the fdca does not require us (i) to perform the full range of safety and efficacy trials that is otherwise required to secure approval of a new drug, and (ii) obtain a “right of reference” from the applicant that obtained approval of the previously approved drug. however, a §505(b)(2) application must support the proposed change of the previously approved drug by including necessary and adequate information, as determined by the fda, and the fda may still require us to perform a full range of safety and efficacy trials. if one of our product candidates achieves clinical trial objectives, we must prepare and submit to the fda a comprehensive §505(b)(2) application. review of the application may lead the fda to request more information or require us to perform additional clinical trials, thus adding to product development costs and delaying any marketing approval from the fda. we have no control over the fda’s review time for any future nda it submits, which may vary significantly based on the disease to be treated, availability of alternate treatments, severity of the disease, and the risk/benefit profile of the proposed product. even if one of our products receives fda marketing approval, we could be required to conduct post-marketing phase iv studies and surveillance to monitor for adverse effects. if we experience delays in nda application processing, requests for additional information or further clinical trials, or are required to conduct post-marketing studies or surveillance, our product development costs could increase substantially, and our ability to generate revenues from a product candidate could be postponed, perhaps indefinitely. the resulting negative impact on our operating results and financial condition may cause the value of our common stock to decline, and you may lose all or a part of your investment.   22 table of contents the approval process outside the united states varies among countries and may limit our ability to develop, manufacture and sell our products internationally. we may conduct clinical trials for, and seek regulatory approval to market, our product candidates in countries other than the united states. for example, the clinical trials for optina will be conducted in canada, the zertane clinical trials contracted by biosciences were conducted in europe, and we plan to conduct the clinical trials of ampion in australia and india. depending on the results of clinical trials and the process to obtain regulatory approvals in other countries, we may decide to first seek regulatory approvals of a product candidate in countries other than the u.s., or we may simultaneously seek regulatory approvals in the u.s. and other countries. if we or any collaborators we secure seek marketing approvals for a product candidate outside the u.s., we will be subject to the regulatory requirements of health authorities in each country in which we seek approvals. with respect to marketing authorizations in europe, we will be required to submit a european marketing authorization application, or maa, to the european medicines agency, or emea, which conducts a validation and scientific approval process in evaluating a product for safety and efficacy. the approval procedure varies among regions and countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approvals may differ from that required to obtain fda approval. obtaining regulatory approvals from health authorities in countries outside the u.s. is likely to subject us to all of the risks associated with obtaining fda approval described above. in addition, marketing approval by the fda does not ensure approval by the health authorities of any other country, and approval by foreign health authorities does not ensure marketing approval by the fda. even if one of our product candidates receives regulatory approval, commercialization of the product may be adversely affected by regulatory actions and oversight. even if we receive regulatory approval for a product candidate, this approval may carry conditions that limit the market for the product or put the product at a competitive disadvantage relative to alternative therapies. for instance, a regulatory approval may limit the indicated uses for which we can market a product or the patient population that may utilize the product, or may be required to carry a warning on its packaging. products with boxed warnings are subject to more restrictive advertising regulations than products without such warnings. these restrictions could make it more difficult to market any product candidate effectively. once a product candidate is approved, we remain subject to continuing regulatory obligations, such as safety reporting requirements and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of promotion and marketing. in addition, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for an approved product remain subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. if we become aware of previously unknown problems with an approved product in the u.s. or overseas or at any contract manufacturers’ facilities, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on the product, any contract manufacturers or on us, including requiring us to reformulate the product, conduct additional clinical studies, change the labeling of the product, withdraw the product from the market or require a contract manufacturer to implement changes to its facilities. in addition, we may experience a significant drop in the sales and royalties related to the product, its reputation in the marketplace may suffer, and we could face lawsuits. we also are subject to regulation by regional, national, state and local agencies, including the department of justice, the federal trade commission, the office of inspector general of the u.s. department of health and human services and other regulatory bodies, as well as governmental authorities in those other countries in which any of our product candidates are approved for commercialization. the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, the public health service act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including preclinical and clinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information, and promotion. if we or any third parties that provide these services for us are unable to comply, we may be subject to regulatory or civil actions or penalties that could significantly and adversely affect our business. any failure to maintain regulatory approval will limit our ability to commercialize our product candidates, which would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. if we do not achieve its projected development and commercialization goals in the timeframes we announce and expect, the commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed, our business will be harmed, and our stock price may decline. we sometimes estimate for planning purposes the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development objectives. these milestones may include our expectations regarding the commencement or completion of scientific studies, clinical trials, the submission of regulatory filings, or commercialization objectives. from time to time, we may publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones, such as the completion of an ongoing clinical trial, the initiation of other clinical programs, receipt of marketing approval, or a   23 table of contents commercial launch of a product. the achievement of many of these milestones may be outside of our control. all of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions which may cause the timing of achievement of the milestones to vary considerably from our estimates, including:     •   our available capital resources or capital constraints we experience;     •   the rate of progress, costs and results of our clinical trials and research and development activities, including the extent of scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and collaborators, and our ability to identify and enroll patients who meet clinical trial eligibility criteria;     •   our receipt of approvals by the fda and other regulatory agencies and the timing thereof;     •   other actions, decisions or rules issued by regulators;     •   our ability to access sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of compounds used in the manufacture of our product candidates;     •   the efforts of our collaborators with respect to the commercialization of our products; and     •   the securing of, costs related to, and timing issues associated with, product manufacturing as well as sales and marketing activities. if we fail to achieve announced milestones in the timeframes we announce and expect, our business and results of operations may be harmed and the price of our stock may decline. our success is dependent in large part upon the continued services of our chief scientific officer. our success is dependent in large part upon the continued services of our chief scientific officer, dr. david bar-or. we have an employment agreement with dr. bar-or and a research agreement with trauma research, llc, an entity owned by dr. bar-or that conducts research and development activities on our behalf. these agreements are terminable on short notice for cause by us or dr. bar-or and may also be terminated without cause under certain circumstances. we do not maintain key-man life insurance on dr. bar-or, although we may elect to obtain such coverage in the future. if we lost the services of dr. bar-or for any reason, our clinical testing and other product development activities may experience significant delays, and our ability to develop and commercialize new product candidates may be diminished. if we do not obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval of, and commercialize, pharmaceutical products. the development of pharmaceutical products is capital-intensive. at december 31, 2010, we had cash of approximately $671,000. in order to continue funding our operations, we obtained bridge financing in november 2010 totaling approximately $1.38 million from 19 investors. the bridge financing converts automatically into our common stock on march 31, 2011, or earlier upon completion of an offering of $10 million or more. we anticipate we will require significant additional financing to continue to fund our operations. our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors including:     •   progress in, and the costs of, our preclinical studies and clinical trials and other research and development programs;     •   the scope, prioritization and number of ampio’s research and development programs;     •   the achievement of milestones or occurrence of other developments that trigger payments under any collaboration agreements we obtain;     •   the extent to which we are obligated to reimburse, or entitled to reimbursement of, clinical trial costs under future collaboration agreements, if any;     •   the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, enforcing and defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights;     •   the costs of securing manufacturing arrangements for commercial production; and     •   the costs of establishing or contracting for sales and marketing capabilities if we obtains regulatory clearances to market our product candidates.   24 table of contents until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through collaboration arrangements, private or public sales of our securities, debt financings, or by licensing one or more of our product candidates. dislocations in the financial markets have generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain, and may have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our fundraising needs. we cannot be certain that additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. if funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. additional funding, if obtained, may significantly dilute existing shareholders if that financing is obtained through issuing equity or instruments convertible into equity. we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and perform data collection and analysis, which may result in costs and delays that prevent us from successfully commercializing product candidates. although we design and manage our current preclinical studies, we do not have the in-house capability to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates. we rely, and will rely in the future, on medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract research organizations, contract laboratories, and collaborators to perform data collection and analysis and other aspects of our clinical trials. for example, we contracted with st. michael’s hospital, toronto, canada, to perform clinical trials for optina, and a collaborator contracted by biosciences performed clinical trials for zertane. we rely primarily on trauma research, llc, a related party, to conduct preclinical studies and provide assessments of clinical observations. our preclinical activities or clinical trials conducted in reliance on third parties may be delayed, suspended, or terminated if:     •   the third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or fail to meet regulatory obligations or expected deadlines;     •   we replace a third party; or     •   the quality or accuracy of the data obtained by third parties is compromised due to their failure to adhere to clinical protocols, regulatory requirements, or for other reasons. third party performance failures may increase our development costs, delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval, and delay or prevent the commercialization of our product candidates. while we believe that there are numerous alternative sources to provide these services, in the event that we seek such alternative sources, we may not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without incurring delays or additional costs. even if collaborators with which we contract in the future successfully complete clinical trials of our product candidates, those candidates may not be commercialized successfully for other reasons. even if we contract with collaborators that successfully complete clinical trials for one or more of our product candidates, those candidates may not be commercialized for other reasons, including:     •   failure to receive regulatory clearances required to market them as drugs;     •   being subject to proprietary rights held by others;     •   being difficult or expensive to manufacture on a commercial scale;     •   having adverse side effects that make their use less desirable; or     •   failing to compete effectively with products or treatments commercialized by competitors. relying on third-party manufacturers may result in delays in our clinical trials and product introductions. we have no manufacturing facilities and have no experience in the manufacturing of drugs or in designing drug-manufacturing processes. if any of our product candidates are approved by the fda or other regulatory agencies for sale, we will need to contract with a third party to manufacture the product candidate in commercial quantities. while we believe there are a number of alternative sources available to manufacture our product candidates if and when regulatory approvals are received, we may not be able to secure manufacturing arrangements on a timely basis when required, or at a reasonable cost. we cannot estimate any delay in manufacturing or unanticipated manufacturing costs with certainty but, if either occurs, our commercialization efforts may be impeded or our costs may increase.   25 table of contents once regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer may result in restrictions on the product, manufacturer or manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. any manufacturers with which we contract are required to operate in accordance with fda-mandated current good manufacturing practices, or cgmps. a failure of any of our contract manufacturers to establish and follow cgmps and to document their adherence to such practices, may lead to significant delays in the launch of products based on our product candidates into the market. failure by our third-party manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, revocation or suspension of marketing approval for any products granted pre-market approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecutions. we intend to enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market any products we develop and for which we obtain regulatory approvals, which may affect the sales of our products and our ability to generate revenues. we do not maintain an organization for the sale, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products and intend to contract with, or license, third parties to market any products we develop that receive regulatory approvals. outsourcing sales and marketing in this manner may subject us to a variety of risks, including:     •   our inability to exercise control over sales and marketing activities and personnel;     •   failure or inability of contracted sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products;     •   disputes with third parties concerning sales and marketing expenses, calculation of royalties, and sales and marketing strategies; and     •   unforeseen costs and expenses associated with sales and marketing. if we are unable to partner with a third party that has adequate sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, we will have difficulty commercializing our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and ability to generate product revenues. we face substantial competition from companies with considerably more resources and experience than we have, which may result in others discovering, developing, receiving approval for, or commercializing products before or more successfully than us. our ability to succeed in the future depends on our ability to discover, develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products that offer superior efficacy, convenience, tolerability, and safety when compared to existing treatment methodologies. we intend to do so by identifying product candidates that address new indications using previously approved drugs, use of new combinations of previously approved drugs, or which are based on a modified active ingredient which previously received regulatory approval. because our strategy is to develop new product candidates primarily for treatment of diseases that affect large patient populations, those candidates are likely to compete with a number of existing medicines or treatments, and a large number of product candidates that are being developed by others. many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, personnel and marketing resources than us. in addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater resources devoted to product development and preclinical research. our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to:     •   discover and develop product candidates that are superior to other products in the market;     •   attract and retain qualified personnel;     •   obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our product candidates;     •   obtain required regulatory approvals; and     •   obtain collaboration arrangements to commercialize our product candidates. established pharmaceutical companies devote significant financial resources to discovering, developing or licensing novel compounds that could make our product candidates obsolete. our competitors may obtain patent protection, receive fda approval, and commercialize medicines before us. other companies are engaged in the discovery of compounds that may compete with the product candidates we are developing.   26 table of contents any new product that competes with a currently-approved treatment or medicine must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and/or safety in order to address price competition and be commercially successful. if we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition and operations will suffer. product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our product candidates. the risk that we may be sued on product liability claims is inherent in the development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products. side effects of, or manufacturing defects in, products that we develop which are commercialized by any collaborators could result in the deterioration of a patient’s condition, injury or even death. once a product is approved for sale and commercialized, the likelihood of product liability lawsuits increases. claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves or by individuals or groups seeking to represent a class. these lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. in addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forgo further commercialization of the affected products. although we maintain general liability and product liability insurance, this insurance may not fully cover potential liabilities. in addition, inability to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval, which could adversely affect our business. product liability claims could also harm our reputation, which may adversely affect our collaborators’ ability to commercialize our products successfully. if any of our product candidates are commercialized, this does not assure acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors, or the medical community in general. the commercial success of any of our product candidates that secure regulatory approval will depend upon acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community in general. we cannot be sure that any of our product candidates, if and when approved for marketing, will be accepted by these parties. even if the medical community accepts a product as safe and efficacious for its indicated use, physicians may choose to restrict the use of the product if we or any collaborator is unable to demonstrate that, based on experience, clinical data, side-effect profiles and other factors, our product is preferable to any existing medicines or treatments. we cannot predict the degree of market acceptance of any product candidate that receives marketing approval, which will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to:     •   the demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of the product;     •   the approved labeling for the product and any required warnings;     •   the advantages and disadvantages of the product compared to alternative treatments;     •   our and any collaborator’s ability to educate the medical community about the safety and effectiveness of the product;     •   the reimbursement policies of government and third party payors pertaining to the product; and     •   the market price of our product relative to competing treatments. government restrictions on pricing and reimbursement, as well as other healthcare payor cost-containment initiatives, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenues if we obtain regulatory approval to market a product. the continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect one or more of the following:     •   our or our collaborators’ ability to set a price we believes is fair for our products, if approved;     •   our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability; and     •   the availability of capital. the 2010 enactments of the patient protection and affordable care act, or ppaca, and the health care and education reconciliation act are expected to significantly impact the provision of, and payment for, health care in the united states. various provisions of these laws take effect over the next four years, and are designed to expand medicaid eligibility, subsidize insurance premiums, provide incentives for businesses to provide health care benefits, prohibit denials of coverage   27 table of contents due to pre-existing conditions, establish health insurance exchanges, and provide additional support for medical research. additional legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs, along with the trend toward managed healthcare in the united states, could influence the purchase of medicines and reduce demand and prices for our products, if approved. this could harm our or our collaborators’ ability to market any products and generate revenues. cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of further health care reform could significantly reduce potential revenues from the sale of any of our product candidates approved in the future. in addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable. we believe that pricing pressures at the federal and state level, as well as internationally, will continue and may increase, which may make it difficult for us to sell our potential products that may be approved in the future at a price acceptable to us or any of our future collaborators. if trauma research uses hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages or fines. the research and development activities conducted on our behalf by trauma research, llc, a related party controlled by dr. bar-or, involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical, biological and radioactive materials. in addition, trauma research’s operations produce hazardous waste products. federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. if trauma research experiences a release of hazardous substances, it is possible that this release could cause personal injury or death, and require decontamination of facilities. trauma research has advised us that it believes it is in compliance with laws applicable to the handling of hazardous substances, but such compliance does not assure that a release of hazardous substances will not occur, or assure that such compliance will be maintained in the future. in the event of an accident involving research being conducted on our behalf, trauma research could be held liable for damages or face substantial penalties for which we could also be responsible. we do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from the procurement, handling, or discharge of hazardous materials. compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business. business interruptions could limit our ability to operate our business. our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from computer viruses, human error, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, intentional acts of misappropriation, and similar events. we have not established a formal disaster recovery plan, and our back-up operations and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses that occur. a significant business interruption could result in losses or damages incurred by us and require us to curtail our operations. risks related to our intellectual property our ability to compete may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary rights. our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining proprietary rights to our product candidates and compounds and their uses, as well as successfully defending these rights against third-party challenges. we will only be able to protect our product candidates, proprietary compounds, and their uses from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents, or effectively protected trade secrets, cover them. as of december 31, 2010, we owned or were the exclusive licensee under nine issued united states patents, 22 u.s. pending patent applications, 15 issued international patents, and 79 pending international patent applications. our ability to obtain patent protection for our product candidates and compounds is uncertain due to a number of factors, including:     •   we may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by pending patent applications or issued patents;     •   we may not have been the first to file patent applications for our product candidates or the compounds we developed or for their uses;     •   others may independently develop identical, similar or alternative products or compounds;     •   our disclosures in patent applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability;     •   any or all of our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents;     •   we may not seek or obtain patent protection in countries that may eventually provide us a significant business opportunity;   28 table of contents   •   any patents issued to us may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide any competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties;     •   our proprietary compounds may not be patentable;     •   others may design around our patent claims to produce competitive products which fall outside of the scope of our patents; or     •   others may identify prior art which could invalidate our patents. even if we have or obtain patents covering our product candidates or compounds, we may still be barred from making, using and selling our product candidates or technologies because of the patent rights of others. others have or may have filed, and in the future may file, patent applications covering compounds or products that are similar or identical to ours. there are many issued u.s. and foreign patents relating to chemical compounds and therapeutic products, and some of these relate to compounds we intend to commercialize. numerous u.s. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others exist in the area of metabolic disorders, cancer, inflammatory responses, and the other fields in which we are developing products. these could materially affect our ability to develop our product candidates or sell our products if approved. because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications unknown to us that may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or compounds may infringe. these patent applications may have priority over patent applications filed by us. we periodically conduct searches to identify patents or patent applications that may prevent us from obtaining patent protection for our compounds or that could limit the rights we have claimed in our patents and patent applications. disputes may arise regarding the source or ownership of our inventions. it is difficult to determine if and how such disputes would be resolved. others may challenge the validity of our patents. if our patents are found to be invalid, we will lose the ability to exclude others from making, using or selling the compounds or products addressed in those patents. in addition, compounds or products we may license may become important to some aspects of our business. we generally will not control the patent prosecution, maintenance or enforcement of licensed compounds or products. confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property, which could limit our ability to compete. because we operates in the highly technical field of drug discovery and development of therapies that can address metabolic disorders, cancer, inflammation and other conditions, we rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect its proprietary technology and processes. however, trade secrets are difficult to protect. we enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and other advisors. these agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. these agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. in addition, courts outside the united states may be less willing to protect trade secrets. the failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. we have entered into non-compete agreements with certain of its employees, but the enforceability of those agreements is not assured. a dispute concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and costly, and an unfavorable outcome could harm our business. there is significant litigation in the pharmaceutical industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. while we are not currently subject to any pending intellectual property litigation, and are not aware of any such threatened litigation, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product candidates, technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. in particular, there are many patents relating to repositioned drugs and chemical compounds used to treat metabolic disorders, cancer and inflammation. some of these may encompass repositioned drugs or compounds that we utilize in our product candidates. if our development activities are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages or seek licenses to such patents. a patentee could prevent us from using the patented repositioned drugs or compounds. we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. from time to time, we may hire scientific personnel or consultants formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the   29 table of contents activities conducted by us. either we or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. if we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources, regardless of whether we win or lose. we may not be able to afford the costs of litigation. any legal action against us or our collaborators could lead to:     •   payment of damages, potentially treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party’s patent rights;     •   injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize, and sell products; or     •   us or our collaborators having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. as a result, we could be prevented from commercializing current or future product candidates. pharmaceutical patents and patent applications involve highly complex legal and factual questions, which, if determined adversely to us, could negatively impact our patent position. the patent positions of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. for example, some of our patents and patent applications cover methods of use of repositioned drugs, while other patents and patent applications cover composition of a particular compound. the interpretation and breadth of claims allowed in some patents covering pharmaceutical compounds may be uncertain and difficult to determine, and are often affected materially by the facts and circumstances that pertain to the patented compound and the related patent claims. the standards of the united states patent and trademark office, or uspto, are sometimes uncertain and could change in the future. consequently, the issuance and scope of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. u.s. patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings, and u.s. patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings in the uspto. foreign patents may be subject also to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent office, which could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. in addition, such interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings may be costly. accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection against competitive products or processes. in addition, changes in or different interpretations of patent laws in the united states and foreign countries may permit others to use our discoveries or to develop and commercialize our technology and products without providing any compensation to us, or may limit the number of patents or claims we can obtain. the laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as u.s. laws and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. for example, some countries do not grant patent claims directed to methods of treating humans and, in these countries, patent protection may not be available at all to protect our product candidates. in addition, u.s. patent laws may change, which could prevent or limit us from filing patent applications or patent claims to protect our products and/or compounds. if we fail to obtain and maintain patent protection and trade secret protection of our product candidates, proprietary compounds and their uses, we could lose our competitive advantage and competition we face would increase, reducing any potential revenues and adversely affecting our ability to attain or maintain profitability. general risks related to ampio the price of our stock has been extremely volatile and may continue to be so, and investors in our stock could incur substantial losses. the price of our common stock has been extremely volatile and may continue to be so. the stock market in general and the market for pharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies, to a greater extent during the last few years. the following factors, in addition to the other risk factors described in this section, may also have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock:     •   any actual or perceived adverse developments in clinical trials for optina, vasaloc or ampion;     •   any licensee’s termination of a license, such as biosciences experienced with zertane earlier in 2010;   30 table of contents   •   any actual or perceived difficulties or delays in obtaining regulatory approval of any of our product candidates in the united states or other countries once clinical trials are completed;     •   any finding that our product candidates are not safe or effective, or any inability to demonstrate clinical effectiveness of our product candidates when compared to existing treatments;     •   any actual or perceived adverse developments in repurposed drug technologies, including any change in fda policy or guidance on approval of repurposed drug technologies for new indications;     •   any announcements of developments with, or comments by, the fda, the emea, or other regulatory authorities with respect to product candidates we have under development;     •   any announcements concerning our retention or loss of key employees, especially dr. bar-or;     •   our success or inability to obtain collaborators to conduct clinical trials, commercialize a product candidate for which regulatory approval is obtained, or market and sell an approved product candidate;     •   any actual or perceived adverse developments with respect to our relationship with trllc;     •   announcements of patent issuances or denials, product innovations, or new commercial products by our competitors that will compete with any of our product candidates;     •   publicity regarding actual or potential study results or the outcome of regulatory reviews relating to products under development by us, our collaborators, or our competitors;     •   economic and other external factors beyond our control; and     •   sales of stock by us or by our shareholders. there is, at present, only a limited market for our common stock, and there is no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will develop. even though our common stock is currently quoted on the otc bulletin board, our common stock has been thinly traded. to the extent that is true, an investor may not be able to liquidate his or her investment without a significant decrease in price, or at all. unless our common stock is listed on a national securities exchange, the application of the “penny stock” rules to transactions in our common stock could limit the trading and liquidity of our common stock, adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and impose additional costs on transactions involving our common stock. trades of our common stock are currently subject to rule 15g-9 promulgated by the sec under the securities and exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act, which imposes certain requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities subject to the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. for transactions covered by the rule, broker-dealers must make a special suitability determination for purchasers of the securities and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale. the sec also has other rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks.” penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities listed on a national securities exchange, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in those securities are provided by the exchange or system). the penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the penny stock rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the sec that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. the broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. the bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. these disclosure requirements have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity for our common stock. as a result, investors may find it difficult to sell our common stock.   31 table of contents concentration of our ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. as of february 14, 2011, our directors, executive officers and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 46.7% of our outstanding common stock. these shareholders may control effectively the outcome of actions taken by us that require shareholder approval. anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws and in delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of ampio. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. these provisions include:     •   requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;     •   restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;     •   prohibiting stockholder action by written consent except in certain circumstances; and     •   establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. increased costs associated with corporate governance compliance may significantly impact our results of operations. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices, including the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and new sec regulations, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours in understanding and complying with these laws and regulations. as a result of this uncertainty and other factors, devoting the necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards has resulted in and may in the future result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention to compliance activities. we also expect these developments to increase our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. in addition, these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. moreover, we may be unable to comply with these new laws and regulations on a timely basis. these developments could make it more difficult for us to retain qualified members of our board of directors, or qualified executive officers. we are presently evaluating and monitoring regulatory developments and cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result. to the extent these costs are significant, our general and administrative expenses are likely to increase. if we sell shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock in future financings, the ownership interest of existing shareholders will be diluted and, as a result, our stock price may go down. we may from time to time issue additional shares of common stock at a discount from the current trading price of our common stock. as a result, our existing shareholders will experience immediate dilution upon the purchase of any shares of our common stock sold at a discount. for example, in november 2010, 19 investors purchased convertible debentures in the amount of $1.38 million from us. in addition, as other capital raising opportunities present themselves, we may enter into financing or similar arrangements in the future, including the issuance of additional debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. if we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our shareholders will experience dilution and this dilution will be greater if we find it necessary to sell securities at a discount to prevailing market prices. we reported material weaknesses in our internal controls at december 31, 2010. and if we cannot remediate these weaknesses and maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors’ views of us could be harmed. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. in particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of its internal control over financial reporting to allow management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. even though our independent auditor is exempted   32 table of contents by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 from having to currently opine on the effectiveness of our internal controls, our management team is still required to conduct an annual assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls. we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2010 based upon (i) a lack of segregation of duties in our financial reporting and accounting functions, and a related lack of implementation of measures that would prevent our chief executive officer and chief financial officer from overriding the internal control system, and (ii) there being ineffective controls over the accounting for, and reporting of, complex, non-routine transactions in derivative financial instruments. if we are unable to remediate the identified material weaknesses or otherwise fail to achieve and maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results, prevent or detect fraud, or provide timely and reliable financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. as a practical matter, we may be unable to remediate these material weaknesses until we have additional financial resources available to us, the amount and timing of which is uncertain. at december 31, 2010, we concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at a reasonable assurance level because of the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that has continued to exist. if we are unable to comply with the requirements of section 404 in a timely manner, or if we identify additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the sec or other regulatory authorities, which would require us to expend additional financial and management resources. if securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock after instituting coverage, the price of our common stock could decline. the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business may vary widely and may not predict accurate results, but will likely have an effect on the trading price of our common stock. if an industry analyst decides not to cover us, or if an industry analyst institutes coverage and later decides to cease covering us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. if an industry analyst who covers our stock decides to downgrade that stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly in response. we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, so you will not receive funds without selling your common stock. we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock. we generally intends to invest future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations our board of directors deems relevant. any future credit facilities or preferred stock financing we obtain may further limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your common stock in order to generate cash from an investment in our common stock. you may not receive a gain on your investment when you sell your common stock and whatever cash you realize may be worth less than the purchase price of the stock you owned. a large number of shares may be sold in the market in the future, which may depress the market price of our common stock. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. if there are more shares of common stock offered for sale than buyers willing to purchase, then the market price of our common stock may decline to a market price at which buyers are willing to purchase the offered shares. we currently have 17,107,036 shares of common stock outstanding. of these shares, 356,587 shares are free-trading. in march 2011, approximately 2.6 million additional shares of our common stock will become free-trading. the remaining outstanding shares of our common stock are “restricted securities” as defined under rule 144 under the securities act. we cannot predict the likelihood or timing of any future sales of the common stock issued to ampio shareholders prior to this offering. any sales by ampio shareholders could depress the market price of ampio common stock. the 8,667,905 shares of common stock issuable in the merger to the biosciences shareholders will be free-trading once the registration statement covering such shares of common stock is declared effective by the sec, subject to the provisions of lock-up agreements under which such shareholders are prohibited from selling, pledging or hypothecating the ampio common stock to be received by them until december 31, 2011. executive and non-executive officers of biosciences who receive merger stock, and executive and non-executive officers and employees of ampio at the time of the merger, are required by the merger agreement, as amended, to sign lock-up agreements covering the merger stock, and any other ampio shares owned by such persons, for a period through february 28, 2012.   33 table of contents item 1b. unresolved