item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business we have incurred significant losses since inception, expect to incur net losses for at least the next several years and may never achieve or sustain profitability. we have experienced significant net losses since inception. as of december 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $64 million. we expect our annual net losses to continue over the next several years as we advance our development programs and incur significant clinical development costs. we have not received, and do not currently expect to receive, any revenues from the commercialization of our product candidates in the near term. in september 2011, we entered into a license, development and commercialization agreement with a major korean pharmaceutical company with respect to zertane in south korea, which provided for a $500,000 upfront payment and future milestone payments that are contingent upon achievement of regulatory approvals and cumulative net sales targets. we may enter into additional licensing and collaboration arrangements, which may provide us with potential milestone payments and royalties and those arrangements, if obtained, will be our primary source of revenues for the coming years. we cannot be certain that any other licensing or collaboration arrangements will be concluded, or that the terms of those arrangements will result in our receiving material revenues. to obtain revenues from product candidates, we must succeed, either alone or with others, in a range of challenging activities, including completing clinical trials of our product candidates, obtaining marketing approval for these product candidates, manufacturing, marketing and selling those products for which we, or our collaborators, may obtain marketing approval, satisfying any post-marketing requirements and obtaining reimbursement for our products from private insurance or government payors. we, and our collaborators, may never succeed in these activities and, even if we do, or one of our collaborators does, we may never succeed in these activities, and may never generate revenues that are significant enough to achieve profitability. if we do not secure collaborations with strategic partners to test, commercialize and manufacture product candidates, we may not be able to successfully develop products and generate meaningful revenues. a key aspect of our current strategy is to selectively enter into collaborations with third parties to conduct clinical testing, as well as to commercialize and manufacture product candidates. our ability to generate revenues from these arrangements will depend on our collaborators’ abilities to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements. we currently have only one   17 table of contents collaboration agreement in effect, which relates to zertane in south korea. collaboration agreements typically call for milestone payments that depend on successful demonstration of efficacy and safety, obtaining regulatory approvals, and clinical trial results. collaboration revenues are not guaranteed, even when efficacy and safety are demonstrated. the current economic environment may result in potential collaborators electing to reduce their external spending, which may prevent us from developing our product candidates. even if we succeed in securing collaborators, the collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products using our product candidates or technologies. collaborations involving our product candidates pose a number of risks, including the following:     •   collaborators may not have sufficient resources or decide not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints such as budget limitations, lack of human resources, or a change in strategic focus;     •   collaborators may believe our intellectual property or the product candidate infringes on the intellectual property rights of others;     •   collaborators may dispute their responsibility to conduct development and commercialization activities pursuant to the applicable collaboration, including the payment of related costs or the division of any revenues;     •   collaborators may decide to pursue a competitive product developed outside of the collaboration arrangement;     •   collaborators may not be able to obtain, or believe they cannot obtain, the necessary regulatory approvals;     •   collaborators may delay the development or commercialization of our product candidates in favor of developing or commercializing another party’s product candidate; or     •   collaborators may decide to terminate or not to renew the collaboration for these or other reasons. thus, collaboration agreements may not lead to development or commercialization of product candidates in the most efficient manner or at all. for example, our former collaborator that licensed zertane conducted clinical trials which we believe demonstrated efficacy in treating pe, but the collaborator undertook a merger that we believe altered its strategic focus and thereafter terminated the collaboration agreement. the merger also created a potential conflict with a principal customer of the acquired company, which sells a product to treat pe in certain european markets. collaboration agreements are generally terminable without cause on short notice. once a collaboration agreement is signed, it may not lead to commercialization of a product candidate. we also face competition in seeking out collaborators. if we are unable to secure new collaborations that achieve the collaborator’s objectives and meet our expectations, we may be unable to advance our product candidates and may not generate meaningful revenues. we will need substantial additional capital to fund our operations. if we are unable to raise capital when needed, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs and commercialization efforts. developing pharmaceutical products, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, is a very time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process that takes years to complete. we expect our expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we initiate new clinical trials of, initiate new research and preclinical development efforts for and seek marketing approval for, our product candidates. we will require additional capital to fund our operations, including to:     •   continue to fund clinical trials of ampion and optina;     •   prepare for and apply for regulatory approval for our product candidates;     •   further develop and assess the clinical utility of the oxidation reduction potential (orp) diagnostic device, or the orp device;     •   develop additional product candidates;     •   conduct additional clinical research and development;     •   pursue existing and new claims covered by intellectual property we own or license; and     •   sustain our corporate overhead requirements, and hire and retain necessary personnel. until we can generate revenue from collaboration agreements to finance our cash requirements, which we may not accomplish, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through offerings of our debt or equity securities. we currently have only one collaboration agreement in effect, which relates to zertane in south korea. we do not know whether additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. if we are unable to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope, or eliminate development of one or more of our product candidates, or substantially curtail or close our operations altogether. alternatively, we may have to obtain a collaborator for one or more of our product candidates at an earlier stage of development, which could lower the economic value of those product candidates to us.   18 table of contents ampion, optina and our orp device are currently undergoing, or are expected to undergo, clinical trials that are time-consuming and expensive, the outcomes of which are unpredictable, and for which there is a high risk of failure. if clinical trials of our product candidates fail to satisfactorily demonstrate safety and efficacy to the fda and other regulators, we, or our collaborators, may incur additional costs or experience delays in completing, or ultimately be unable to complete, the development and commercialization of these product candidates. pre-clinical testing and clinical trials are long, expensive and unpredictable processes that can be subject to extensive delays. we cannot guarantee that any clinical studies will be conducted as planned or completed on schedule, if at all. it may take several years to complete the pre-clinical testing and clinical development necessary to commercialize a drug or biologic, and delays or failure can occur at any stage. interim results of clinical trials do not necessarily predict final results, and success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials even after promising results in earlier trials and we cannot be certain that we will not face similar setbacks. the design of a clinical trial can determine whether its results will support approval of a product and flaws in the design of a clinical trial may not become apparent until the clinical trial is well advanced. our product development programs are at various stages of development. we continue to work toward completion and analysis of clinical trials for our two primary products: ampion and optina, as well as for the orp device. an unfavorable outcome in one or more trials for ampion, optina or the orp device would be a major set-back for the development programs for these product candidates and for us. due to our limited financial resources, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these trials may require us to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one of these product development programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and on the value of our common stock. in connection with clinical testing and trials, we face a number of risks, including:     •   a product candidate is ineffective, inferior to existing approved medicines, unacceptably toxic, or has unacceptable side effects;     •   patients may die or suffer other adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to the product candidate being tested;     •   the results may not confirm the positive results of earlier testing or trials; and     •   the results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda, or other regulatory agencies to establish the safety and efficacy of our product candidates. the results of pre-clinical studies do not necessarily predict clinical success, and larger and later-stage clinical studies may not produce the same results as earlier-stage clinical studies. frequently, product candidates developed by pharmaceutical companies have shown promising results in early pre-clinical or clinical studies, but have subsequently suffered significant setbacks or failed in later clinical studies. in addition, clinical studies of potential products often reveal that it is not possible or practical to continue development efforts for these product candidates. if we do not successfully complete pre-clinical and clinical development, we will be unable to market and sell products derived from our product candidates and generate revenues. even if we do successfully complete clinical trials, those results are not necessarily predictive of results of additional trials that may be needed before an nda or bla may be submitted to the fda. although there are a large number of drugs and biologics in development in the u.s. and other countries, only a small percentage result in the submission of an nda or bla to the fda, even fewer are approved for commercialization, and only a small number achieve widespread physician and consumer acceptance following regulatory approval. if our clinical studies are substantially delayed or fail to prove the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates in development, we may not receive regulatory approval of any of these product candidates and our business and financial condition will be materially harmed. delays, suspensions and terminations in our clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and delay or prevent our ability to generate revenues. human clinical trials are very expensive, time-consuming, and difficult to design, implement and complete. we currently expect clinical trials of our product candidates could take from six to 24 months to complete, but the completion of trials for our product candidates may be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in:     •   demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial;     •   reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites;     •   manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate;     •   obtaining approval of an ind from the fda;     •   obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective clinical trial site;   19 table of contents   •   determining dosing and making related adjustments; and     •   patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical trial sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. the commencement and completion of clinical studies for our product candidates may be delayed, suspended or terminated due to a number of factors, including:     •   lack of effectiveness of product candidates during clinical studies;     •   adverse events, safety issues or side effects relating to the product candidates or their formulation;     •   inability to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts to continue clinical trials or development programs, which are very expensive;     •   the need to sequence clinical studies as opposed to conducting them concomitantly in order to conserve resources;     •   our inability to enter into collaborations relating to the development and commercialization of our product candidates;     •   failure by us or our collaborators to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements;     •   our inability or the inability of our collaborators to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient for use in pre-clinical and clinical studies;     •   governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines, including mandated changes in the scope or design of clinical trials or requests for supplemental information with respect to clinical trial results;     •   failure of our collaborators to advance our product candidates through clinical development;     •   delays in patient enrollment, variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical studies, and lower than anticipated retention rates for patients in clinical trials;     •   difficulty in patient monitoring and data collection due to failure of patients to maintain contact after treatment;     •   a regional disturbance where we or our collaborative partners are enrolling patients in our clinical trials, such as a pandemic, terrorist activities or war, or a natural disaster; and     •   varying interpretations of data by the fda and similar foreign regulatory agencies. many of these factors may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a current or potential product candidate. if we experience delay, suspensions or terminations in a clinical trial, the commercial prospects for the related product candidate will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. we cannot be certain we will successfully complete the phase iii ampion and §505(b)(2) optina trials within any specific time period, if at all. in addition, we may encounter delays or product candidate rejections based on new governmental regulations, future legislative or administrative actions, or changes in fda policy or interpretation during the period of product development. if we obtain required regulatory approvals, such approvals may later be withdrawn. delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approvals may:     •   adversely affect the commercialization of any product candidates we develop;     •   diminish any competitive advantages that such product candidates may have or attain. furthermore, if we fail to comply with applicable fda and other regulatory requirements at any stage during this regulatory process, we may encounter or be subject to:     •   delays in clinical trials or commercialization;     •   refusal by the fda to review pending applications or supplements to approved applications;     •   product recalls or seizures;     •   suspension of manufacturing;     •   withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and     •   fines, civil penalties, and criminal prosecutions. if our product candidates are not approved by the fda, we will be unable to commercialize them in the united states. the fda must approve any new medicine before it can be commercialized, marketed, promoted or sold in the united states. we must provide the fda with data from pre-clinical and clinical studies that demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for a defined indication before they can be approved for commercial distribution. clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is inherently uncertain as to outcome. we will not obtain approval for a product candidate unless and until the fda approves a nda for a drug and a bla for a biologic. the processes by which regulatory approvals are obtained from the fda to market and sell a new or repositioned product are complex, require a number of years and involve the expenditure of substantial resources. we cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will receive fda approval in the future, and the time for receipt of any such approval is currently incapable of estimation.   20 table of contents we or our collaborators intend to seek fda approval for most of our product candidates using an expedited process established by the fda. if we, or our collaborators, are unable to secure clearances to use expedited development pathways from the fda for certain of our drug product candidates, we, or they, may be required to conduct additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials beyond those that we, or they, contemplate, which could increase the expense of obtaining, and delay the receipt of, necessary marketing approvals and of any product revenues. assuming successful completion of clinical trials, we expect to submit ndas to the fda at various times in the future under §505(b)(2) of the food, drug and cosmetic act, as amended, or the fdca. ndas submitted under this section are eligible to receive fda approval by relying in part on the fda’s findings of safety and efficacy for a previously approved drug. we are currently pursuing in our clinical trials a §505(b)(2) pathway for optina and may also do so for other product candidates. the fda’s 1999 guidance on §505(b)(2) applications states that new indications for a previously approved drug, a new combination product, a modified active ingredient, or changes in dosage form, strength, formulation, and route of administration of a previously approved product are encompassed within the §505(b)(2) nda process. relying on §505(b)(2) is advantageous because we or our collaborators may not be required (i) to perform the full range of safety and efficacy trials that is otherwise required to secure approval of a new drug, and (ii) obtain a “right of reference” from the applicant that obtained approval of the previously approved drug. however, a §505(b)(2) application must support the proposed change of the previously approved drug by including necessary and adequate information, as determined by the fda, and the fda may still require us to perform a full range of safety and efficacy trials. if one of our product candidates achieves clinical trial objectives, we must prepare and submit to the fda a comprehensive nda or bla application. review of the application may lead the fda to request more information or require us to perform additional clinical trials, thus adding to product development costs and delaying any marketing approval from the fda. additionally, time to review may vary significantly based on the disease to be treated, availability of alternate treatments, severity of the disease, and the risk/benefit profile of the proposed product. even if one of our products receives fda marketing approval, we could be required to conduct post-marketing phase iv studies and surveillance to monitor for adverse effects. if we experience delays in nda application processing, requests for additional information or further clinical trials, or are required to conduct post-marketing studies or surveillance, our product development costs could increase substantially, and our ability to generate revenues from a product candidate could be postponed, perhaps indefinitely. the resulting negative impact on our operating results and financial condition may cause the value of our common stock to decline, and you may lose all or a part of your investment. the approval process outside the united states varies among countries and may limit our ability to develop, manufacture and sell our products internationally. failure to obtain marketing approval in international jurisdictions would prevent our product candidates from being marketed abroad. in order to market and sell our products in the european union and many other jurisdictions, we, and our collaborators, must obtain separate marketing approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. the approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. we may conduct clinical trials for, and seek regulatory approval to market, our product candidates in countries other than the united states. depending on the results of clinical trials and the process for obtaining regulatory approvals in other countries, we may decide to first seek regulatory approvals of a product candidate in countries other than the u.s., or we may simultaneously seek regulatory approvals in the u.s. and other countries. if we or our collaborators seek marketing approvals for a product candidate outside the u.s., we will be subject to the regulatory requirements of health authorities in each country in which we seek approvals. with respect to marketing authorizations in europe, we will be required to submit a european marketing authorization application, or maa, to the european medicines agency, or ema, which conducts a validation and scientific approval process in evaluating a product for safety and efficacy. the approval procedure varies among regions and countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approvals may differ from that required to obtain fda approval. obtaining regulatory approvals from health authorities in countries outside the u.s. is likely to subject us to all of the risks associated with obtaining fda approval described above. in addition, marketing approval by the fda does not ensure approval by the health authorities of any other country, and approval by foreign health authorities does not ensure marketing approval by the fda. even if we, or our collaborators, obtain marketing approvals for our product candidates, the terms of approvals and ongoing regulation of our products may limit how we, or they, manufacture and market our products, which could materially impair our ability to generate revenue. even if we receive regulatory approval for a product candidate, this approval may carry conditions that limit the market for the product or put the product at a competitive disadvantage relative to alternative therapies. for instance, a regulatory approval may limit the indicated uses for which we can market a product or the patient population that may utilize the product, or may be required to carry a warning in its labeling and on its packaging. products with boxed warnings are subject to more restrictive advertising regulations than products without such warnings. these restrictions could make it more difficult to market any product candidate effectively.   21 table of contents in addition, manufacturers of approved products and those manufacturers’ facilities are required to comply with extensive fda requirements, including ensuring that quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cgmps, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation and reporting requirements. we, our contract manufacturers, our collaborators and their contract manufacturers could be subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the fda to monitor and ensure compliance with cgmps. accordingly, assuming we, or our collaborators, receive marketing approval for one or more of our product candidates, we, and our collaborators, and our and their contract manufacturers will continue to expend time, money and effort in all areas of regulatory compliance, including manufacturing, production, product surveillance and quality control. any of our product candidates for which we, or our collaborators, obtain marketing approval in the future could be subject to post-marketing restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we, and our collaborators, may be subject to substantial penalties if we, or they, fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we, or they, experience unanticipated problems with our products following approval. any of our product candidates for which we, or our collaborators, obtain marketing approval in the future, as well as the manufacturing processes, post-approval studies and measures, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such products, among other things, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by the fda and other regulatory authorities. these requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and listing requirements, requirements relating to manufacturing, quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping. even if marketing approval of a product candidate is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, including the fda requirement to implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (rems) to ensure that the benefits of a drug or biological product outweigh its risks. the fda may also impose requirements for costly post-marketing studies or clinical trials and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of a product. the fda and other agencies, including the department of justice, closely regulate and monitor the post-approval marketing and promotion of products to ensure that they are manufactured, marketed and distributed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling. the fda imposes stringent restrictions on manufacturers’ communications regarding off-label use and if we, or our collaborators, do not market any of our product candidates for which we, or they, receive marketing approval for only their approved indications, we, or they, may be subject to warnings or enforcement action for off-label marketing. violation of the fdca, the public health service act (phsa), and other statutes, including the false claims act, relating to the promotion and advertising of prescription drugs may lead to investigations or allegations of violations of federal and state health care fraud and abuse laws and state consumer protection laws. if we do not achieve our projected development and commercialization goals in the timeframes we announce and expect, the commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed, our business will be harmed, and our stock price may decline. we sometimes estimate for planning purposes the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development objectives. these milestones may include our expectations regarding the commencement or completion of scientific studies, clinical trials, the submission of regulatory filings, or commercialization objectives. from time to time, we may publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones, such as the completion of an ongoing clinical trial, the initiation of other clinical programs, receipt of marketing approval, or a commercial launch of a product. the achievement of many of these milestones may be outside of our control. all of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions which may cause the timing of achievement of the milestones to vary considerably from our estimates, including:     •   our available capital resources or capital constraints we experience;     •   the rate of progress, costs and results of our clinical trials and research and development activities, including the extent of scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and collaborators, and our ability to identify and enroll patients who meet clinical trial eligibility criteria;     •   our receipt of approvals by the fda and other regulatory agencies and the timing thereof;     •   other actions, decisions or rules issued by regulators;     •   our ability to access sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of compounds used in the manufacture of our product candidates;     •   the efforts of our collaborators with respect to the commercialization of our products; and     •   the securing of, costs related to, and timing issues associated with, product manufacturing as well as sales and marketing activities.   22 table of contents if we fail to achieve announced milestones in the timeframes we announce and expect, our business and results of operations may be harmed and the price of our stock may decline. our success is dependent in large part upon the continued services of our chief scientific officer. our success is dependent in large part upon the continued services of our chief scientific officer, dr. david bar-or. we have an employment agreement with dr. bar-or and a research agreement with trauma research llc, an entity owned by dr. bar-or that conducts research and development activities on our behalf. these agreements are terminable on short notice for cause by us or dr. bar-or and may also be terminated without cause under certain circumstances. we do not maintain key-man life insurance on dr. bar-or, although we may elect to obtain such coverage in the future. if we lost the services of dr. bar-or for any reason, our clinical testing and other product development activities may experience significant delays, and our ability to develop and commercialize new product candidates may be diminished. if we do not obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval of, and commercialize, pharmaceutical products. the development of pharmaceutical products is capital-intensive. at december 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $26.3 million. based upon our current plans, it may be necessary to raise additional capital within the next 12 months. we have not received, and without any form of additional capital financing or revenues do not expect to receive for several years, any revenues from the commercialization of our product candidates. in july 2012 and in september 2013, we obtained a total of approximately $15.4 million and $25.0 million, respectively, in net proceeds from the sale of our common stock in an underwritten public offering and a registered direct offering, respectively. we anticipate we will require significant additional financing to continue to fund our operations beyond the next 12 months. our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors including:     •   progress in, and the costs of, our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials and other research and development programs;     •   the scope, prioritization and number of our research and development programs;     •   the achievement of milestones or occurrence of other developments that trigger payments under any collaboration agreements we obtain;     •   the extent to which we are obligated to reimburse, or entitled to reimbursement of, clinical trial costs under future collaboration agreements, if any;   •   the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, enforcing and defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights;     •   the costs of securing manufacturing arrangements for commercial production; and     •   the costs of establishing or contracting for sales and marketing capabilities if we obtain regulatory clearances to market our product candidates. until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through collaboration arrangements, private or public sales of our securities, debt financings, or by licensing one or more of our product candidates. dislocations in the financial markets have generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain, and may have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our fundraising needs. we cannot be certain that additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. if funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. additional funding, if obtained, may significantly dilute existing shareholders if that financing is obtained through issuing equity or instruments convertible into equity. we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and perform data collection and analysis, which may result in costs and delays that prevent us from successfully commercializing product candidates. although we design and manage our current pre-clinical studies, we do not have the in-house capability to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates. we rely, and will rely in the future, on medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract research organizations, contract laboratories, and collaborators to perform data collection and analysis and other aspects of our clinical trials. we rely primarily on trauma research llc, a related party, to conduct pre-clinical studies and provide assessments of clinical observations. our pre-clinical activities or clinical trials conducted in reliance on third parties may be delayed, suspended, or terminated if:     •   the third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or fail to meet regulatory obligations or expected deadlines;     •   we replace a third party; or     •   the quality or accuracy of the data obtained by third parties is compromised due to their failure to adhere to clinical protocols, regulatory requirements, or for other reasons.   23 table of contents third party performance failures may increase our development costs, delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval, and delay or prevent the commercialization of our product candidates. while we believe that there are numerous alternative sources to provide these services, in the event that we seek such alternative sources, we may not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without incurring delays or additional costs. even if collaborators with which we contract in the future successfully complete clinical trials of our product candidates, those candidates may not be commercialized successfully for other reasons. even if we contract with collaborators that successfully complete clinical trials for one or more of our product candidates, those candidates may not be commercialized for other reasons, including:     •   failure to receive regulatory clearances required to market them as drugs;     •   being subject to proprietary rights held by others;     •   being difficult or expensive to manufacture on a commercial scale;     •   having adverse side effects that make their use less desirable; or     •   failing to compete effectively with products or treatments commercialized by competitors. relying on third-party manufacturers may result in delays in our clinical trials and product introductions. our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and combine that foundation with our clinical development capabilities. to date, we have contracted original equipment manufacturers (“oems”) to produce the biologic for our ampion clinical trials and the drug candidate for our optina clinical trials. our long-term objective is to build a successful, integrated biopharmaceutical company that provides patients and medical professionals with new and better options for preventing and treating human diseases. however, developing and commercializing new medicines entails significant risks and expenses. we have no manufacturing facilities and have no experience in the manufacturing of drugs or in designing drug-manufacturing processes. we currently obtain the hsa need to produce ampion for our clinical trials from two manufacturers in the united states. our clinical trials may be delayed if one or both manufacturers are unable to assure a sufficient quantity of the drug product to meet our study needs. we plan to design, develop and scale up a manufacturing facility in denver, colorado where we would manufacture ampion for registration, batching and commercial supply, as well as future clinical supplies. if we experience delays or difficulties in this effort, our clinical trials may be impacted, our commercialization efforts may be impeded, or our costs may increase. we obtain the active pharmaceutical ingredient (“api”) for optina from an indian company, which is one of only four suppliers of the api in the world. our clinical trials and ultimately fda approval may be delayed if we are unable to obtain a sufficient quantity of the drug product on a timely basis or if we need to establish an alternative source of supply for the api. once regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer may result in restrictions on the product, manufacturer or manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. any manufacturers with which we contract hsa for ampion or danazol for optina supplies are required to operate in accordance with fda-mandated current good manufacturing practices, or cgmps. a failure of any of our contract manufacturers to establish and follow cgmps and to document their adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in the launch of products based on our product candidates into the market. failure by third-party manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, revocation or suspension of marketing approval for any products granted pre-market approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecutions. our transactions with related parties may not benefit us and may harm us. we are party to a sponsored research agreement with trauma research llc, a related party controlled by our director and chief scientific officer, dr. bar-or. we rely primarily on trauma research llc to conduct pre-clinical studies and provide assessments of clinical observations. in addition, luoxis is party to an agreement with trauma research llc, under which luoxis pays trauma research llc for services related to research and development of luoxis’ oxidation-reduction potential platform. we believe that we have conducted our related-party transactions on an arm’s-length basis and on terms comparable to, or more favorable to us than, similar transactions we would enter into with independent third parties. however, we cannot assure you that all our future transactions with related parties will be beneficial to us. we intend to enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market any products we develop and for which we obtain regulatory approvals, which may affect the sales of our products and our ability to generate revenues.   24 table of contents we do not currently maintain an organization for the sale, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products and may contract with, or license, third parties to market any products we develop that receive regulatory approvals. outsourcing sales and marketing in this manner may subject us to a variety of risks, including:     •   our inability to exercise control over sales and marketing activities and personnel;     •   failure or inability of contracted sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products;     •   disputes with third parties concerning sales and marketing expenses, calculation of royalties, and sales and marketing strategies; and     •   unforeseen costs and expenses associated with sales and marketing. if we are unable to partner with a third party that has adequate sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, we may have difficulty commercializing our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and ability to generate product revenues. we face substantial competition from companies with considerably more resources and experience than we have, which may result in others discovering, developing, receiving approval for, or commercializing products before or more successfully than us. our ability to succeed in the future depends on our ability to discover, develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products that offer superior efficacy, convenience, tolerability, and safety when compared to existing treatment methodologies. we intend to do so by identifying product candidates that address new indications using previously approved drugs, use of new combinations of previously approved drugs, or which are based on a modified active ingredient which previously received regulatory approval. because our strategy is to develop new product candidates primarily for treatment of diseases that affect large patient populations, those candidates are likely to compete with a number of existing medicines or treatments, and a large number of product candidates that are being developed by others. many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, personnel and marketing resources than we do. in addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater resources devoted to product development and pre-clinical research. our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to:     •   discover and develop product candidates that are superior to other products in the market;     •   attract and retain qualified personnel;   •   obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our product candidates;     •   obtain required regulatory approvals; and     •   obtain collaboration arrangements to commercialize our product candidates. established pharmaceutical companies devote significant financial resources to discovering, developing or licensing novel compounds that could make our product candidates obsolete. our competitors may obtain patent protection, receive fda approval, and commercialize medicines before us. other companies are engaged in the discovery of compounds that may compete with the product candidates we are developing. any new product that competes with a currently-approved treatment or medicine must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and/or safety in order to address price competition and be commercially successful. if we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition and operations will suffer. product liability and other lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our product candidates. the risk that we may be sued on product liability claims is inherent in the development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products. side effects of, or manufacturing defects in, products that we develop which are commercialized by any collaborators could result in the deterioration of a patient’s condition, injury or even death. once a product is approved for sale and commercialized, the likelihood of product liability lawsuits increases. claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves or by individuals or groups seeking to represent a class. these lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. in addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forgo further commercialization of the affected products. we may be subject to legal or administrative proceedings and litigation other than product liability lawsuits which may be costly to defend and could materially harm our business, financial conditions and operations.   25 table of contents although we maintain general liability and product liability insurance, this insurance may not fully cover potential liabilities. in addition, inability to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product or other legal or administrative liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval, which could adversely affect our business. product liability claims could also harm our reputation, which may adversely affect our collaborators’ ability to commercialize our products successfully. if any of our product candidates are commercialized, this does not assure acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors, or the medical community in general. even if we, or our collaborators, are able to commercialize our product candidates, the products may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third party payor reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives that could harm our business. the commercial success of our product candidates will depend substantially, both domestically and abroad, on the extent to which the costs of our product candidates will be paid by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar healthcare management organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third party payors. if reimbursement is not available, or is available only to limited levels, we, or our collaborators, may not be able to successfully commercialize our product candidates. even if coverage is provided, the approved reimbursement amount may not be high enough to allow us, or our collaborators, to establish or maintain pricing sufficient to realize a sufficient return on our or their investments. we cannot be sure that any of our product candidates, if and when approved for marketing, will be accepted by these parties. even if the medical community accepts a product as safe and efficacious for its indicated use, physicians may choose to restrict the use of the product if we or any collaborator is unable to demonstrate that, based on experience, clinical data, side-effect profiles and other factors, our product is preferable to any existing medicines or treatments. we cannot predict the degree of market acceptance of any product candidate that receives marketing approval, which will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to:     •   the demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of the product;     •   the approved labeling for the product and any required warnings;     •   the advantages and disadvantages of the product compared to alternative treatments;     •   our and any collaborator’s ability to educate the medical community about the safety and effectiveness of the product;     •   the reimbursement policies of government and third party payors pertaining to the product; and     •   the market price of our product relative to competing treatments. government restrictions on pricing and reimbursement, as well as other healthcare payor cost-containment initiatives, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenues if we obtain regulatory approval to market a product. the continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect one or more of the following:     •   our or our collaborators’ ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products, if approved;     •   our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability; and     •   the availability of capital. the 2010 enactments of the patient protection and affordable care act, or ppaca, and the health care and education reconciliation act are expected to significantly impact the provision of, and payment for, health care in the united states. various provisions of these laws take effect over the next four years, and are designed to expand medicaid eligibility, subsidize insurance premiums, provide incentives for businesses to provide health care benefits, prohibit denials of coverage due to pre-existing conditions, establish health insurance exchanges, and provide additional support for medical research. additional legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs, along with the trend toward managed healthcare in the united states, could influence the purchase of medicines and reduce demand and prices for our products, if approved. this could harm our or our collaborators’ ability to market any products and generate revenues. cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of further health care reform could significantly reduce potential revenues from the sale of any of our product candidates approved in the future, and could cause an increase in our compliance, manufacturing, or other operating expenses. in addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable. we believe that pricing pressures at the federal and state level, as well as internationally, will continue and may increase, which may make it difficult for us to sell our potential products that may be approved in the future at a price acceptable to us or any of our future collaborators. if trauma research llc uses hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages or fines.   26 table of contents the research and development activities conducted on our behalf by trauma research llc, a related party controlled by dr. bar-or, involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical, biological and radioactive materials. in addition, trauma research llc’s operations produce hazardous waste products. federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. if trauma research llc experiences a release of hazardous substances, it is possible that this release could cause personal injury or death, and require decontamination of facilities. trauma research llc has advised us that it believes it is in compliance with laws applicable to the handling of hazardous substances, but such compliance does not assure that a release of hazardous substances will not occur, or assure that such compliance will be maintained in the future. in the event of an accident involving research being conducted on our behalf, trauma research llc could be held liable for damages or face substantial penalties for which we could also be responsible. we do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from the procurement, handling, or discharge of hazardous materials. compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business. business interruptions could limit our ability to operate our business. our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from computer viruses, human error, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, intentional acts of misappropriation, and similar events. we have not established a formal disaster recovery plan, and our back-up operations and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses that occur. a significant business interruption could result in losses or damages incurred by us and require us to curtail our operations. risks related to our intellectual property our ability to compete may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary rights. our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining proprietary rights to our product candidates and compounds and their uses, as well as successfully defending these rights against third-party challenges. we will only be able to protect our product candidates, proprietary compounds, and their uses from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents, or effectively protected trade secrets, cover them. our ability to obtain patent protection for our product candidates and compounds is uncertain due to a number of factors, including:     •   we may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by pending patent applications or issued patents;     •   we may not have been the first to file patent applications for our product candidates or the compounds we developed or for their uses;     •   others may independently develop identical, similar or alternative products or compounds;     •   our disclosures in patent applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability;     •   any or all of our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents;     •   we may not seek or obtain patent protection in countries that may eventually provide us a significant business opportunity;     •   any patents issued to us may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide any competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties;     •   our proprietary compounds may not be patentable;     •   others may design around our patent claims to produce competitive products which fall outside of the scope of our patents; or     •   others may identify prior art which could invalidate our patents. even if we have or obtain patents covering our product candidates or compounds, we may still be barred from making, using and selling our product candidates or technologies because of the patent rights of others. others have or may have filed, and in the future may file, patent applications covering compounds or products that are similar or identical to ours. there are many issued u.s. and foreign patents relating to chemical compounds and therapeutic products, and some of these relate to compounds we intend to commercialize. numerous u.s. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others exist in the area of metabolic disorders, cancer, inflammatory responses, and the other fields in which we are developing products. these could materially affect our ability to develop our product candidates or sell our products if approved. because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications unknown to us that may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or compounds may infringe. these patent applications may have priority over patent applications filed by us. we periodically conduct searches to identify patents or patent applications that may prevent us from obtaining patent protection for our compounds or that could limit the rights we have claimed in our patents and patent applications. disputes may arise regarding the source or ownership of our inventions. it is difficult to determine if and how such disputes would be resolved. others may challenge   27 table of contents the validity of our patents. if our patents are found to be invalid, we will lose the ability to exclude others from making, using or selling the compounds or products addressed in those patents. in addition, compounds or products we may license may become important to some aspects of our business. we generally will not control the prosecution, maintenance or enforcement of patents covering licensed compounds or products. confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property, which could limit our ability to compete. because we operate in the highly technical field of drug discovery and development of therapies that can address metabolic disorders, cancer, inflammation and other conditions, we rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary technology and processes. however, trade secrets are difficult to protect. we enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and other advisors. these agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. these agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. however, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. in addition, courts outside the united states may be less willing to protect trade secrets. the failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. we have entered into non-compete agreements with certain of our employees, but the enforceability of those agreements is not assured. a dispute concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and costly, and an unfavorable outcome could harm our business. there is significant litigation in the pharmaceutical industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. while we are not currently subject to any pending intellectual property litigation, and are not aware of any such threatened litigation, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product candidates, technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. in particular, there are many patents relating to repositioned drugs and chemical compounds used to treat metabolic disorders, cancer and inflammation. some of these may encompass repositioned drugs or compounds that we utilize in our product candidates. if our development activities are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages or seek licenses to such patents. a patentee could prevent us from using the patented drugs or compounds. we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. from time to time, we may hire scientific personnel or consultants formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities conducted by us. either we or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of prior affiliations. if we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources, regardless of whether we win or lose. we may not be able to afford the costs of litigation. any legal action against us or our collaborators could lead to:     •   payment of damages, potentially treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party’s patent rights;     •   injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize, and sell products; or     •   us or our collaborators having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. as a result, we could be prevented from commercializing current or future product candidates. pharmaceutical patents and patent applications involve highly complex legal and factual questions, which, if determined adversely to us, could negatively impact our patent position. the patent positions of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. for example, some of our patents and patent applications cover methods of use of repositioned drugs, while other patents and patent applications cover composition of a particular compound. the interpretation and breadth of claims allowed in some patents covering pharmaceutical compounds may be uncertain and difficult to determine, and are often affected materially by the facts and circumstances that pertain to the patented compound and the related patent claims. the standards of the united states patent and trademark office, or uspto, are sometimes uncertain and could change in the future. consequently, the issuance and scope of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. u.s. patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings, and u.s. patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings in the uspto. foreign patents may be subject also to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent office, which could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. in addition, such interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings may be costly. accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection against competitive products or processes.   28 table of contents in addition, changes in or different interpretations of patent laws in the united states and foreign countries may permit others to use our discoveries or to develop and commercialize our technology and products without providing any compensation to us, or may limit the number of patents or claims we can obtain. the laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as u.s. laws and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. for example, some countries do not grant patent claims directed to methods of treating humans and, in these countries, patent protection may not be available at all to protect our product candidates. in addition, u.s. patent laws may change, which could prevent or limit us from filing patent applications or patent claims to protect our products and/or compounds. if we fail to obtain and maintain patent protection and trade secret protection of our product candidates, proprietary compounds and their uses, we could lose our competitive advantage and competition we face would increase, reducing any potential revenues and adversely affecting our ability to attain or maintain profitability. risks related to our common stock the price of our stock has been extremely volatile and may continue to be volatile and fluctuate substantially, which could result in substantial losses for purchasers of our common stock. the price of our common stock has been extremely volatile and may continue to be so. the stock market in general and the market for pharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies, to a greater extent during the last few years. the following factors, in addition to the other risk factors described in this section, may also have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock:     •   any actual or perceived adverse developments in clinical trials for ampion, optina or the orp device;     •   any actual or perceived difficulties or delays in obtaining regulatory approval of any of our product candidates in the united states or other countries once clinical trials are completed;     •   any finding that our product candidates are not safe or effective, or any inability to demonstrate clinical effectiveness of our product candidates when compared to existing treatments;     •   any actual or perceived adverse developments in repurposed drug technologies, including any change in fda policy or guidance on approval of repurposed drug technologies for new indications;     •   any announcements of developments with, or comments by, the fda, the ema, or other regulatory authorities with respect to product candidates we have under development;     •   any announcements concerning our retention or loss of key employees, especially dr. bar-or;     •   our success or inability to obtain collaborators to conduct clinical trials, commercialize a product candidate for which regulatory approval is obtained, or market and sell an approved product candidate;     •   any actual or perceived adverse developments with respect to our relationship with trauma research llc;     •   any licensee’s termination of a license, such as that experienced with zertane in 2010;     •   announcements of patent issuances or denials, product innovations, or introduction of new commercial products by our competitors that will compete with any of our product candidates;     •   publicity regarding actual or potential study results or the outcome of regulatory reviews relating to products under development by us, our collaborators, or our competitors;     •   economic and other external factors beyond our control; and     •   sales of stock by us or by our shareholders. in addition, we believe there has been and may continue to be substantial off-market transactions in derivatives of our stock, including short selling activity or related similar activities, which are beyond our control and which may be beyond the full control of the sec and financial institutions regulatory authority (“finra”). while sec and finra rules prohibit some forms of short selling and other activities that may result in stock price manipulation, such activity may nonetheless occur without detection or enforcement. we have held conversations with regulators concerning trading activity in our stock; however, there can be no assurance that should there be any illegal manipulation in the trading of our stock it will be detected, prosecuted or successfully eradicated. significant short selling or other types of market manipulation could cause our stock trading price to decline, to become more volatile, or both.   29 table of contents the price of our stock may be vulnerable to manipulation. in december 2011, our common stock was the subject of significant short selling efforts by certain market participants. short sales are transactions in which a market participant sells a security that it does not own. to complete the transaction, the market participant must borrow the security to make delivery to the buyer. the market participant is then obligated to replace the security borrowed by purchasing the security at the market price at the time of required replacement. if the price at the time of replacement is lower than the price at which the security was originally sold by the market participant, then the market participant will realize a gain on the transaction. thus, it is in the market participant’s interest for the market price of the underlying security to decline as much as possible during the period prior to the time of replacement. because our unrestricted public float (not subject to lockup restrictions) has been small relative to other issuers, previous short selling efforts have impacted, and may in the future continue to impact, the value of our stock in an extreme and volatile manner to our detriment and the detriment of our shareholders. in addition, market participants with admitted short positions in our stock have published, and may in the future continue to publish, negative information regarding us and our management team on internet sites or blogs that we believe is inaccurate and misleading. we believe that the publication of this negative information has led, and may in the future continue to lead, to significant downward pressure on the price of our stock to our detriment and the further detriment of our shareholders. these and other efforts by certain market participants to manipulate the price of our common stock for their personal financial gain may cause our stockholders to lose a portion of their investment, may make it more difficult for us to raise equity capital when needed without significantly diluting existing stockholders, and may reduce demand from new investors to purchase shares of our stock. if we cannot continue to satisfy the nyse mkt listing maintenance requirements and other rules, including the director independence requirements, our securities may be delisted, which could negatively impact the price of our securities. although our common stock is listed on the nyse mkt, we may be unable to continue to satisfy the listing maintenance requirements and rules. if we are unable to satisfy the nyse mkt criteria for maintaining our listing, our securities could be subject to delisting. to qualify for continued listing on the nyse mkt, we must continue to meet specific criteria, including the following:     •   the minimum bid price of our shares must be at least $3.00, the market value of our publicly held shares must be at least $15,000,000, our stockholders’ equity must be at least $4,000,000, and we must have at least (i) 800 public shareholders and 500,000 publicly held shares, or; (ii) 400 public shareholders and 1,000,000 publicly held shares; or     •   the minimum bid price of our shares must be at least $2.00, the market value of our publicly held shares must be at least $15,000,000, our stockholders’ equity must be at least $4,000,000, our market capitalization must exceed $50,000,000, and we must have at least (i) 800 public shareholders and 500,000 publicly held shares, or; (ii) 400 public shareholders and 1,000,000 publicly held shares; or     •   the minimum bid price of our shares must be at least $3.00, the market value of our publicly held shares must be at least $20,000,000, our market capitalization must exceed $75,000,000 or our assets and revenue must exceed $75,000,000, and we must have at least (i) 800 public shareholders and 500,000 publicly held shares, or; (ii) 400 public shareholders and 1,000,000 publicly held shares. under the nyse mkt rules, shares that are held by “public shareholders” do not include shares held by officers, directors, controlling shareholders and concentrated (10% or greater), affiliated or family holdings. if the nyse mkt delists our securities, we could face significant consequences, including:     •   a limited availability for market quotations for our securities;     •   reduced liquidity with respect to our securities;     •   a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in reduced trading;     •   activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock;     •   limited amount of news and analyst coverage; and     •   a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. in addition, we would no longer be subject to the nyse mkt rules, including rules requiring us to have a certain number of independent directors and to meet other corporate governance standards.   30 table of contents concentration of our ownership limits the ability of our shareholders to influence corporate matters. as of december 31, 2013, our directors, executive officers and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 13.7% of our outstanding common stock. these shareholders may control effectively the outcome of actions taken by us that require shareholder approval. anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws and in delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of ampio. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. these provisions include:     •   requiring supermajority shareholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;     •   restricting the ability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders;     •   prohibiting shareholder action by written consent except in certain circumstances; and     •   establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. increased costs associated with corporate governance compliance may significantly impact our results of operations. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices, including the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and new sec regulations, may create difficulties for companies such as ours in understanding and complying with these laws and regulations. as a result of these difficulties and other factors, devoting the necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards has resulted in and may in the future result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention to compliance activities. we also expect these developments to increase our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. in addition, these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. moreover, we may be unable to comply with these new laws and regulations on a timely basis. these developments could make it more difficult for us to retain qualified members of our board of directors, or qualified executive officers. we are presently evaluating and monitoring regulatory developments and cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result. to the extent these costs are significant; our general and administrative expenses are likely to increase. if securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock after instituting coverage, the price of our common stock could decline. the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business may vary widely and may not predict accurate results, but will likely have an effect on the trading price of our common stock. if an industry analyst decides not to cover us, or if an industry analyst institutes coverage and later decides to cease covering us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. if an industry analyst who covers our stock decides to downgrade that stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly in response. we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock. we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock. we generally intend to invest future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations our board of directors deem relevant. any future credit facilities or preferred stock financing we obtain may further limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock.   item 1b. unresolved