item 1a. risk factors the following is a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are significant to our business. in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, the following are some of the important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we believe could make our actual results differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements. it is impossible to predict or identify all such factors and, as a result, you should not consider the following factors to be a complete discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, restrict our activities and affect our ability to meet our obligations. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2012, we had total indebtedness of $2,820.8 million and we would have been able to borrow an additional $400.0 million under the revolving portion of our credit facility, less $27.9 million of offsetting outstanding letters of credit. as of december 31, 2012, we had no outstanding borrowings against the revolving credit facility. of our total indebtedness at december 31, 2012, $2,349.5 million consists of the term loans under ati’s credit facility, including $411.4 million of indebtedness associated with ati’s senior secured credit facility term b-1 loan due 2014 (“term b-1 loan”), $793.1 million of indebtedness associated with ati’s senior secured credit facility term b-2 loan due 2017 (“term b-2 loan”), $1,145.0 million of indebtedness associated with ati’s senior secured credit facility term b-3 loan due 2019 (“term b-3 loan” and together with the term b-1 loan, term b-2 loan, term b-3 loan and revolving credit facility defined as the “senior secured credit facility”). we also had indebtedness of $471.3 million of ati’s 7.125% senior cash pay notes due may 2019 (“7.125% senior notes”). for a complete description of the terms of the senior secured credit facility and the 7.125% senior notes, please see part ii, item 7, “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations – recent developments,” “– description of the senior secured credit facility” and “– description of the senior notes.” our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could:     •   make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness;     •   require us to further dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes;     •   increase our vulnerability to and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, downturns or changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;     •   restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;     •   expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under the senior secured credit facility are subject to variable rates of interest;     •   place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and     •   limit our ability to borrow additional funds. in addition, the senior secured credit facility contains a maximum total senior secured leverage ratio. the senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the 7.125% senior notes also contain other negative and affirmative covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our failure to comply with any of the covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness.   17 table of contents we participate in markets that are competitive, and our competitors’ actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our business operates in competitive markets. we compete against other global manufacturers on the basis of product performance, quality, price, distribution capability and service in addition to other factors. actions by our competitors could lead to downward pressure on prices and/or a decline in our market share, either or both of which could adversely affect our results. we face competition from domestic manufacturers of manual transmissions, amts and fully-automatic transmissions for commercial vehicles. in particular, we could face competition from well-capitalized entrants into the transmission market, as well as from aggressive pricing tactics by other transmission manufacturers trying to gain market share. we also face competition from international manufacturers in our international markets and from international manufacturers entering our domestic market. in addition, some of our customers or future customers are oems that manufacture or could in the future manufacture transmissions for their own products. despite their transmission manufacturing abilities, our existing oem customers have chosen to purchase certain transmissions from us due to customer demand, resulting from the quality of our transmission products and in order to reduce fixed costs, eliminate production risks and maintain company focus. however, we cannot be certain these customers will continue to purchase our products in the future. increased levels of production insourcing by these customers could result from a number of factors, such as shifts in our customers’ business strategies, acquisition by a customer of another transmission manufacturer, the inability of third-party suppliers to meet specifications and the emergence of low-cost production opportunities in foreign countries. as a result, these oems may use transmissions produced internally or by another manufacturer and no longer choose to purchase transmissions from us. a significant reduction in the level of external sourcing of transmission production by our oem customers could significantly impact our net sales and cash flows and, accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. certain of our end users operate in highly cyclical industries, which can result in uncertainty and significantly impact the demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. some of the markets in which we operate, including energy, mining, construction, distribution and motorhomes, exhibit a high degree of cyclicality. decisions to purchase our transmissions are largely a result of the performance of these and other industries we serve. if demand for output in these industries decreases, the demand for our products will likely decrease. demand in these industries is impacted by numerous factors including prices of commodities, rates of infrastructure spending, housing starts, real estate equity values, interest rates, consumer spending, fuel costs, energy demands, municipal spending and commercial construction, among others. increases or decreases in these variables globally may significantly impact the demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to accurately predict demand, we may be unable to meet our customers’ needs, resulting in the loss of potential sales, or we may manufacture excess products, resulting in increased inventories and overcapacity in our production facilities, increasing our unit production cost and decreasing our operating margins. our long-term growth prospects and results of operations may be impaired if the rate of adoption of fully-automatic transmissions in commercial vehicles outside north america does not increase. our long-term growth strategy depends in part on an increased rate of automaticity outside north america. as part of that strategy, we have established manufacturing facilities in india and hungary. we have also dedicated significant human resources to serve markets where we anticipate increased adoption of automaticity, including china, india, brazil and russia. however, manual transmissions remain the market leader outside north america and there can be no assurance that adoption of automatic transmissions will increase. factors potentially impacting adoption of automatic transmissions outside of north america may include the large existing installed base of manual transmissions, customer preferences for manual transmissions, commercial vehicle oem integration into manual transmission and amt manufacturing, and failure to further develop the allison brand. if the rate of adoption of fully-automatic transmissions does not increase as we have anticipated, our long-term growth prospects and results of operations may be impaired.   18 table of contents our sales are concentrated among our top five oem customers and the loss or consolidation of any one of these customers or the discontinuation of particular vehicle models for which we are a significant supplier could reduce our net sales and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. we have in the past and may in the future derive a significant portion of our net sales from a relatively limited number of oem customers. for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, our top five customers accounted for approximately 45%, 38% and 41% of our net sales, respectively. our top three customers, daimler, navistar and oshkosh, accounted for approximately 13%, 11% and 11%, respectively, of our net sales during 2012. the commercial vehicle industry, including our customers and suppliers, continues to experience volatility and uncertainty as a result of the recent global economic downturn. the loss of, or consolidation of any one of these customers, or a significant decrease in business from, one or more of these customers could harm our business. in addition, the discontinuation of particular vehicle models for which we are a significant supplier could reduce our net sales and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. sales of our hybrid-propulsion systems have been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted by governmental entities electing not to subsidize the purchase of such products by end users, and other external factors. the sales of our hybrid-propulsion systems for use in transit buses have been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted by governmental entities electing not to subsidize the purchase of such products by end users. in 2012, we derived approximately 6% of our net sales from the sale of hybrid-propulsion systems for use in transit buses to city, state and federal governmental end users. such end users may be eligible to receive certain subsidies as a result of their purchase of vehicles using hybrid-propulsion systems. for example, the federal transit authority and the doe provide funds for end users to pursue alternative fuel propulsion systems. while we do not directly receive these subsidies, if any of the subsidizing entities elect to curtail such subsidies to end users for any reason including governmental budget reductions and related fiscal matters, failure of our hybrid technology to qualify for such subsidies or redundancy by alternative technologies created by our competitors, our sales from our hybrid-propulsion systems may be negatively impacted. in addition, other external factors, including diesel and natural gas fuel price trends, availability of compatible engine calibrations from engine manufacturers and alternative emerging green technologies, may negatively impact sales of our hybrid-propulsion systems. for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we experienced decreases in revenue generated from hybrid-propulsion systems for use in transit buses of 14%, 14% and 23%, respectively. a majority of our sales to the military end market are to u.s. government entities, and the loss of a significant number of our contracts or declines would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our net sales to the military end market are predominantly derived from contracts (revenue arrangements) with agencies of, and prime system contractors to, the u.s. government. the loss of all or a substantial portion of our net sales to the u.s. government would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. approximately 14%, or $305.0 million, of our net sales for the year ended december 31, 2012 were made directly or indirectly to u.s. government agencies, including the dod. a significant portion of our total net sales are for products and services under contracts with various agencies and procurement offices of the dod or with prime contractors to the dod. although these various agencies, procurement offices and prime contractors are subject to common budgetary pressures and other factors, our customers exercise independent purchasing decisions. because of this concentration of contracts, if a significant number of our dod contracts and subcontracts are simultaneously delayed or cancelled for budgetary, performance or other reasons, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. future reductions or changes in u.s. government spending could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we have benefited from the upward trend in dod budget authorization and spending outlays over recent years, including supplemental appropriations for military operations in afghanistan. however, we expect future dod spending on wheeled and tracked vehicles will likely decline. in particular, significant volume reductions in one of our indianapolis plants, which primarily produces our u.s. military tracked products, may increase operating costs, which directly impacts our competitive advantage and would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. moreover, as u.s. involvement in afghanistan continues to diminish, the demand for our products may decline significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition to declines in agency budgets, our future financial results may be adversely affected by:     •   sequestration of the military’s spending for products and services;     •   curtailment of the u.s. government’s use of technology or other services and product providers, including curtailment due to government budget reductions and related fiscal matters;     •   developments in afghanistan, or other geopolitical developments that affect demand for our products and services; and     •   technological developments that impact purchasing decisions or our competitive position.   19 table of contents continued volatility in and disruption to the global economic environment may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the global economy has recently experienced a period of significant volatility and disruption. the commercial vehicle industry as a whole has been more adversely affected by the economic conditions than many other industries, as the purchase or replacement of commercial vehicles, which are durable items, can be deferred for many reasons, including reduced spending by end users. many of the economic and market conditions that drove the drop in commercial vehicle sales, primarily continued reduced spending by end users, continue to affect sales. furthermore, financial instability or bankruptcy at any of our suppliers or customers could disrupt our ability to manufacture our products and impair our ability to collect receivables, any or all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. any events that impact our brand name, including if the products we manufacture or distribute are found to be defective, could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause us to incur significant costs and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products has, or is alleged to have, resulted in injury, death or other adverse effects. we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, but we cannot be assured that we will be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or that any such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful product liability defense could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition or prospects. if one of our products is determined to be defective, we may face substantial warranty costs and may be responsible for significant costs associated with a product recall or a redesign. we have had defect and warranty issues associated with certain of our products in the past, such as our h 40/50 ep hybrid-propulsion transit bus system, where certain units were falling short of their expected service life and our predecessor decided to cover repair and replacement for an extended period. see note 9 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional details regarding this warranty issue. we cannot give assurance similar product defects will not occur in the future. furthermore, our business depends on the strong brand reputation we have developed. in addition to the risk of defective products we face with our new product installations, we also face significant risks in our efforts to penetrate new markets, where we have limited brand recognition. we also rely on our reputation with end users of our transmissions to specify our transmissions when purchasing new vehicles from our oem customers. in the event we are not able to maintain or enhance our brand in these new markets or our reputation is damaged in our existing markets as a result of product defects or recalls, we may face difficulty in maintaining our pricing positions with respect to some of our products or experience reduced demand for our products, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not be successful in introducing our new products and responding to customer needs. we currently have more new products under development than at any time in our history as a result of increased spending on new product development in recent years. the development of new products is difficult and the timetable for commercial release is uncertain, and we may not be successful in introducing our new products and responding to customer needs. in addition, it often takes significant time, in some cases multiple fleet buy cycles, before customers gain experience with new products and those new products become widely-accepted by the market. if we do not adequately anticipate the changing needs of our customers by developing and introducing new and effective products on a timely basis, our competitive position and prospects could be harmed. if our competitors are able to respond to changing market demands and adopt new technologies more quickly than we do, demand for our products could decline, our competitive position could be harmed, and we will not be able to recoup a return on our development investments. moreover, changing customer demands as well as evolving safety and environmental standards could require us to adapt our products to address such changes. as a result, in the future we may experience delays in the introduction of some or all of our new products or modifications or enhancements of existing products. furthermore, there may be production delays due to unanticipated technological setbacks, which may, in turn, delay the release of new products to our end users. if we experience significant delays in production, our net sales and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. our success depends on continued research and development efforts, the outcome of which is uncertain. our success depends on our ability to improve the efficiency and performance of our transmissions, and we invest significant resources in research and development in order to do so. nevertheless, the research and development process is time-consuming and costly, and offers uncertain results. we may not be able through our research and development efforts to keep pace with improvements in transmission-related technology of our competitors, and licenses for technologies that would enable us to keep pace with our competitors may not be available on commercially reasonable terms if at all. finally, our research and development efforts, and generally our ability to introduce improved products in the marketplace, may be constrained by the patents and other intellectual property rights of competitors and others.   20 table of contents our international operations, in particular our emerging markets, are subject to various risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our business is subject to certain risks associated with doing business internationally, particularly in emerging markets. non-north american net sales represented approximately 22% of our net sales for 2012. most of our operations are in the u.s., but we also have a manufacturing and customization facility in india, a manufacturing and customization facility in hungary with a services agreement with opel szentgotthard automotive manufacturing ltd., formerly gm-pth, and customization capability in brazil, the netherlands, china and japan. further, we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities for our business in a variety of business environments outside the u.s., which could exacerbate the risks set forth below. our international operations are subject to, without limitation, the following risks:     •   the burden of complying with multiple and possibly conflicting laws and any unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;     •   foreign currency exchange controls, import and export restrictions and tariffs, including restrictions promulgated by the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of the treasury, and other trade protection regulations and measures;     •   political risks, including risks of loss due to civil disturbances, acts of terrorism, acts of war, guerilla activities and insurrection;     •   unstable economic, financial and market conditions and increased expenses as a result of inflation, or higher interest rates;     •   difficulties in enforcement of third-party contractual obligations and intellectual property rights and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems;     •   difficulty in staffing and managing international operations and the application of foreign labor regulations;     •   differing local product preferences and product requirements;     •   fluctuations in currency exchange rates to the extent that our assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the country where we operate;     •   potentially adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws, requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries and restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries; and     •   exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (“fcpa”) and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions. any one of these factors could materially adversely affect our sales of products or services to international customers or harm our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our international operations require us to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations of the u.s. government and various international jurisdictions. doing business on a worldwide basis requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with the laws and regulations of the u.s. government and various international jurisdictions, and our failure to comply with these rules and regulations may expose us to liabilities. these laws and regulations may apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict our operations, trade practices investment decisions and partnering activities. in particular, our international operations are subject to u.s. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the fcpa. the fcpa prohibits u.s. companies and their officers, directors, employees and agents acting on their behalf from corruptly offering, promising, authorizing or providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. the fcpa also requires companies to make and keep books, records and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets and to maintain a system of adequate internal accounting controls. as part of our business, we deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered foreign officials for purposes of the fcpa. in addition, some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have elevated levels of corruption. as a result of the above activities, we are exposed to the risk of violating anti-corruption laws. violations of these legal requirements are punishable by criminal fines and imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions, debarment from government contracts as well as other remedial measures. we have established policies and procedures designed to assist us and our personnel in complying with applicable u.s. and international laws and regulations. however, our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate these requirements, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.   21 table of contents the current economic environment could adversely affect our ability and the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain credit. in the current economic environment, some of our customers and suppliers may experience serious cash flow problems and, thus, may find it difficult to obtain financing, if financing is available at all. as a result, our customers’ need for and ability to purchase our products or services may decrease, and our suppliers may increase their prices, reduce their output or change their terms of sale. any inability of customers to pay us for our products and services, or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, our suppliers may not be successful in generating sufficient sales or securing alternate financing arrangements, and therefore may no longer be able to supply goods and services to us. in that event, we would need to find alternate sources for these goods and services, and there is no assurance we would be able to find such alternate sources on favorable terms, if at all. any such disruption in our supply chain could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and deliver our products on a timely basis, and thereby affect our results of operations. labor unrest could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2012, approximately 60% of our u.s. employees, representing over 50% of our total employees, were represented by the uaw and are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. in november 2012, we reached an agreement on a new five-year collective bargaining agreement with the uaw local 933, which is effective through november 2017. in addition to our unionized work force, many of our direct and indirect customers and vendors have unionized work forces. strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by these customers or vendors or their other suppliers could result in slowdowns or closings of assembly plants that use our products or supply materials for use in the production of our products. organizations responsible for shipping our products may also be impacted by strikes. any interruption in the delivery of our products could reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on us. in general, we consider our labor relations with all of our employees to be good. however, in the future we may be subject to labor unrest. the inability to reach a new agreement could delay or disrupt our operations in the affected regions, including the acquisition of raw materials and components, the manufacture, sales and distribution of products and the provision of services. if strikes, work stoppages or lock-outs at our facilities or at the facilities of our vendors or customers occur or continue for a long period of time, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. in the event of a catastrophic loss of one of our key manufacturing facilities, our business would be adversely affected. while we manufacture our products in several facilities and maintain insurance covering our facilities, including business interruption insurance, a catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of one of our manufacturing facilities due to accident, labor issues, weather conditions, acts of war, political unrest, terrorist activity, natural disaster or otherwise, whether short- or long-term, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our most significant concentration of manufacturing is around our corporate headquarters in indianapolis, indiana where we maintain approximately 90% of our production capacity. in addition to our indianapolis manufacturing facilities, we currently operate manufacturing facilities in both szentgotthard, hungary and chennai, india. however, those facilities are smaller and newer than the indianapolis facilities. in the event of a disruption at the indianapolis facilities, they may not be adequately equipped to operate at a level sufficient to compensate for the volume of production at the indianapolis facility due to their size and the fact that they have not yet been tested for such significant increases in production volume.   22 table of contents increases in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of raw materials or components used in our products could harm our business and profitability. our products contain various raw materials, including corrosion-resistant steel, non-ferrous metals such as aluminum and nickel, and precious metals such as platinum and palladium. we use raw materials directly in manufacturing and in transmission components that we purchase from our suppliers. we generally purchase components with significant raw material content on the open market. the prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. in recent years, we have experienced significant volatility in the cost of raw materials such as steel, aluminum and nickel, as well as in freight charges, and such volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the cost of manufacturing our products. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. even in the event that increased costs can be passed through to customers, our gross margin percentages would decline. additionally, our suppliers are also subject to fluctuations in the prices of raw materials and may attempt to pass all or a portion of such increases on to us. in the event they are successful in doing so, our margins would decline. in 2012, approximately 80% of our total spending on components was sourced from approximately 40 suppliers. all of the suppliers from which we purchase materials and components used in our business are fully validated suppliers, meaning the suppliers’ manufacturing processes and inputs have been validated under a production part approval process (“ppap”). furthermore, there are only a limited number of suppliers for certain of the materials used in our business, such as corrosion-resistant steel. as a result, our business is subject to the risk of additional price fluctuations and periodic delays in the delivery of our materials or components if supplies from a validated supplier are interrupted and a new supplier must be validated or materials and components must be purchased from a supplier without a completed ppap. any such price fluctuations or delays, if significant, could harm our profitability or operations. in addition, the loss of a supplier could result in significant material cost increases or reduce our production capacity. we also cannot guarantee we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. an increase in the cost or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials or components that may be caused by a deterioration of our relationships with suppliers or by events such as natural disasters, power outages, labor strikes, or the like could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. although we have agreements with many of our customers that we will pass such price increases through to them, such contracts may be cancelled by our customers and/or we may not be able to recoup the costs of such price increases. additionally, if we are unable to continue to purchase our required quantities of raw materials on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, if we are unable to maintain or enter into purchasing contracts for commodities, or if delivery of materials from suppliers is delayed or non-conforming, our operations could be disrupted or our profitability could be adversely impacted. our business and financial results may be adversely affected by government contracting risks. we are subject to various laws and regulations applicable to parties doing business with the u.s. government, including laws and regulations governing performance of u.s. government contracts, the use and treatment of u.s. government furnished property and the nature of materials used in our products. we may be unilaterally suspended or barred from conducting business with the u.s. government, or become subject to fines or other sanctions if we are found to have violated such laws or regulations. as a result of the need to comply with these laws and regulations, we are subject to increased risks of governmental investigations, civil fraud actions, criminal prosecutions, whistleblower law suits and other enforcement actions. the laws and regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, export administration regulations, federal acquisition regulation, international traffic in arms regulations, foreign assets control documentation and regulations from the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms and the fcpa. u.s. government contracts are subject to modification, curtailment or termination by the u.s. government without prior written notice, either for convenience or for default as a result of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. if terminated by the u.s. government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the u.s. government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and any other damages it suffers. additionally, we cannot assign prime u.s. government contracts without the prior consent of the u.s. government contracting officer, and we are required to register with the central contractor registration database. furthermore, the u.s. government periodically audits our governmental contract costs, which could result in fines, penalties or adjustment of costs and prices under the contracts. we are subject to the requirements of the national industrial security program operating manual for our facility security clearance, which is a prerequisite for our ability to perform on classified contracts for the u.s. government. certain contracts with the various departments and agencies of the u.s. government, including the dod, require that our offices be issued facility security clearances under the national industrial security program. the national industrial security program requires that a corporation maintaining a facility security clearance be effectively insulated from foreign ownership, control or influence (“foci”). because one of our principal stockholders is a canadian entity, we have agreed to, and have implemented, a security control agreement with the defense security service (“dss”), as a suitable foci mitigation arrangement under the national industrial security program operating manual. a foci arrangement is necessary for us to continue to maintain the requisite security clearances to complete performance under these contracts. failure to reach and/or maintain an appropriate agreement with dss regarding the appropriate foci mitigation arrangement could result in invalidation or termination of the security clearances, which in turn would mean that we would not be able to enter into future contracts with the u.s. government requiring facility security clearances, and may result in the loss of our ability to complete certain of our existing contracts with the u.s. government.   23 table of contents our brand and reputation are dependent on the continued participation and level of service of our numerous independent distributors and dealers. we work with a network of approximately 1,400 independent distributors and dealers that provide post-sale service and parts and support equipment. because we depend on the pull-through demand generated by end users for our products, any actions by the independent distributors or dealers, which are not in our control, may harm our reputation and damage the brand loyalty among our customer base. in the event that we are not able to maintain our brand reputation because of the actions of our independent distributors and dealers, we may face difficulty in maintaining our pricing positions with respect to some of our products or have reduced demand for our products, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, if a significant number of independent dealers were to terminate their contracts, it could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. many of the key patents and unpatented technology we use in our business are licensed to us, not owned by us, and our ability to use and enforce such patents and technology is restricted by the terms of the license. protecting our intellectual property rights is critical to our ability to compete and succeed as a company. in connection with the acquisition transaction, under the patent and technology license agreement (the “patent and technology license agreement”), gm granted us an irrevocable, perpetual, royalty-free, worldwide license under a large number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, as well as certain unpatented technology and know-how, to design, develop, manufacture, use and sell fully-automatic transmissions and h 40/50 ep hybrid-propulsion transit bus systems for use in certain vocational vehicles, military vehicles and off-road products. with respect to the bulk of the intellectual property licensed to us under such license agreement, our license is exclusive with respect to the design, development, manufacture, use and sale of fully-automatic transmissions and h 40/50 ep hybrid-propulsion transit bus systems in vocational vehicles above certain weight rating thresholds, certain military vehicles and certain off-road products. it is non-exclusive with respect to certain other products that are within the scope of the licensed patents or to which the licensed technology can be applied. we consider the patents and technology licensed under such license agreement, as a whole, to be critical to preserving our competitive position in the market. however, gm continues to own such patents and technology, and pursuant to the terms of such license agreement, gm has the right, in the first instance, to control the maintenance, enforcement and defense of such patents and the prosecution of the licensed patent applications. in addition, the license agreement limits our ability to sublicense our rights. the patent and technology license agreement permits us to utilize the bulk of the intellectual property rights on an exclusive basis in non-military vehicles with gross vehicle weights above 5900 kilograms (typically class 4 and higher) with some limited exceptions for gm light-duty pickup truck and van platforms. it also permits us to utilize the bulk of the intellectual property rights on an exclusive basis in military vehicles that exceed 4250 kilograms (generally class 3 to class 4 and higher). gm continues to have the right under such patents and technology to utilize the licensed intellectual property for use in vehicles below the above mentioned rating thresholds, as well as in some light-duty van and pickup truck platforms. we rely on unpatented technology, which exposes us to certain risks. we currently do, and may continue in the future to, rely on unpatented proprietary technology. in such regard, we cannot be assured that any of our applications for protection of our intellectual property rights will be approved or that others will not infringe or challenge our intellectual property rights. it is possible our competitors will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. although we believe the loss or expiration of any single patent would not have a material effect on our business, results of operations or financial position, there can be no assurance that any one, or more, of the patents licensed from gm, or any other intellectual property owned by or licensed to us, will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. in fact, a number of the patents licensed to us by gm have expired since the date of the acquisition transaction, and others are set to expire in the next few years. when a patent expires, the inventions it discloses can be used freely by others. thus, the competitive advantage that we gain from the patents licensed to us from gm pursuant to the acquisition transaction will decrease over time, and a greater burden will be placed on our own research and development and licensing efforts to develop and otherwise acquire technologies to keep pace with improvements of transmission-related technology in the marketplace. we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with employees, and into non-disclosure agreements with suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. we cannot be assured that these measures will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. if we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our ability to sustain margins on some or all of our products may be affected, which could reduce our sales and profitability. moreover, the protection provided for our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the protection available under u.s. law.   24 table of contents our pension funding obligations could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors. our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense recorded for our defined benefit pension plans and other post-retirement benefits (“opeb”). accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (“gaap”) requires that income or expense for defined benefit pension plans be calculated at the annual measurement date using actuarial assumptions and calculations. these calculations reflect certain assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the capital markets, interest rates and other economic conditions. changes in key economic indicators can change these assumptions. these assumptions, along with the actual value of assets at the measurement date, will impact the calculation of pension expense for the year. although gaap pension expense and pension contributions are not directly related, the key economic indicators that affect gaap pension expense also affect the amount of cash that we would contribute to our defined benefit pension plans. because the values of these defined benefit pension plans’ assets have fluctuated and will fluctuate in response to changing market conditions, the amount of gains or losses that will be recognized in subsequent periods, the impact on the funded status of the defined benefit pension plans and the future minimum required contributions, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the magnitude of such impact cannot be determined with certainty at this time. however, the effect of a one percentage point decrease in the assumed discount rate would result in an increase in the december 31, 2012 defined benefit pension plans obligation of approximately $16.5 million. likewise, a one percentage point decrease in the effective interest rate for determining defined benefit pension plans contributions would result in an increase in the minimum required contributions for 2013 of approximately $4.7 million. similarly, a one percentage point decrease in the assumed discount rate would result in an increase in the december 31, 2012 opeb obligation of approximately $27.3 million. as of december 31, 2012 the unfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans and opeb benefits was $13.9 million and $142.6 million, respectively. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations may impose significant compliance costs and liabilities on us. we are subject to many environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water, the generation, handling and disposal of waste and the cleanup of contaminated properties. compliance with these laws and regulations is costly. we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs to maintain or achieve compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. moreover, if these environmental, health and safety laws and regulations become more stringent in the future, we could incur additional costs in order to ensure that our business and products comply with such regulations. we cannot assure we are in full compliance with all environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. our failure to comply with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and permit requirements could result in civil or criminal fines, penalties or enforcement actions, third-party claims for property damage and personal injury, requirements to clean up property or to pay for the costs of cleanup or regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, including the installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions. our failure to comply could also result in our failure to secure adequate insurance for our business, resulting in significant exposure, diminished ability to hedge our risks and material modifications of our business operations. we may be subject to liability under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act and similar state or foreign laws for contaminated properties that we currently own, lease or operate or that we or our predecessors have previously owned, leased or operated, and sites to which we or our predecessors sent hazardous substances. such liability may be joint and several so that we may be liable for more than our share of contamination, and any such liability may be determined without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. we or our predecessors have been named potentially responsible parties at contaminated sites from time to time. gm continues to perform remedial activities at our indianapolis, indiana manufacturing facilities relating to historical soil and groundwater contamination at the facilities. gm is performing such activities pursuant to a voluntary corrective action agreement with the u.s. environmental protection agency, which we refer to as the corrective action. gm retained responsibility for completing all remediation activities covered by the corrective action at the indianapolis, indiana facilities, and agreed to indemnify us against certain environmental liabilities. see part i, item 1, “business — environmental” of this annual report on form 10-k. there can be no assurances that gm will comply with its indemnity obligations or with its remedial obligations at the indianapolis, indiana facilities, or that future environmental remediation obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, we occasionally evaluate various alternatives with respect to our facilities, including possible dispositions or closings. investigations undertaken in connection with these activities may lead to discoveries of contamination that must be remediated, and closings of facilities may trigger remediation requirements that are not applicable to operating facilities. we may also face lawsuits brought by third parties that either allege property damage or personal injury as a result of, or seek reimbursement for costs associated with, such contamination.   25 table of contents we could be materially adversely affected by any failure to maintain cost controls. we rely on our cost structure and operating discipline to achieve strong operating margins. there are many factors that could affect our ability to realize expected cost savings or achieve future cost savings that we are not able to control, including the inability to meet demand through our low-cost country sourcing model; the need for unexpected significant capital expenditures; unexpected changes in commodity or component pricing that we are unable to pass on to our suppliers or customers; our inability to maintain efficiencies gained from our workforce optimization initiatives; and our failure to achieve and maintain expected cost savings from our multi-tier wage and benefit structure. additionally, we have substantial indebtedness of approximately $2,820.8 million as of december 31, 2012. our inability to maintain our cost controls could adversely impact our operating margins. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, increased costs as a result of operating as a publicly traded company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new and continued compliance initiatives. as a publicly traded company, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not previously incur while a private company. in addition, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the “sarbanes-oxley act”), the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and the rules of the sec and the new york stock exchange (“nyse”), have imposed various requirements on public companies. our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. moreover, these rules and regulations have increased, and will continue to increase, our legal and financial compliance costs and have made, and will continue to make, some activities more time-consuming and costly. for example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we are required to incur additional costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. we have experienced significant losses and we cannot assure you that we will achieve or maintain profitability. although our net income for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $514.2 million, $103.0 million and $29.6 million, respectively, we had net losses of $328.1 million and $323.9 million for fiscal years 2008 and 2009, respectively. our ability to achieve or maintain profitability is dependent upon a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot ensure that we will be successful in executing our business strategy and achieving or maintaining profitability, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our obligations, including making payments on our indebtedness. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. our ability to make cash payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate significant operating cash flow in the future. this, to a significant extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. in such circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. we cannot ensure that any such actions, if necessary, could be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. in the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. if our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under the senior secured credit facility to avoid being in default. if we or any of our subsidiaries breach the covenants under the senior secured credit facility and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. if this occurs, we would be in default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.   26 table of contents despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur additional indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage. we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future because the terms of our indebtedness do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. subject to covenant compliance and certain conditions, our indebtedness permits additional borrowing, including total borrowing up to $400.0 million under the revolving portion of the senior secured credit facility. if new debt is added to our current debt levels and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. as a result of the expansion of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our net sales and expenses in such foreign currencies as the japanese yen, euro, indian rupee, brazilian real, chinese yuan renminbi, canadian dollar, british pound, and hungarian forint. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of these and other foreign currencies, these transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. to the extent that we are unable to match net sales received in foreign currencies with expenses paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate net sales or earnings in other currencies, the conversion of such amounts into u.s. dollars can result in an increase or decrease in the amount of our net sales or earnings. furthermore, we sell certain of our products in our non-north american markets denominated in the u.s. dollar. to the extent that certain of the local currencies in our non-north american markets are relatively weaker than the u.s. dollar, whether as a result of foreign governments’ influence or otherwise, we could become less price competitive, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. gm’s actions may materially affect our business and operating results. although we are an independent company as a result of the acquisition transaction, gm’s future actions may still have a material impact on our business and results of operations. pursuant to the cure agreement resulting from gm’s emergence from bankruptcy in 2009, gm has assumed certain agreements from its predecessor, including the asset purchase agreement, intellectual property and software license agreements, lease agreements, engineering services agreements, an employee matters agreement and a hybrid co-branding agreement. gm’s failure to comply with any portion of these agreements for any reason, including the indemnities therein, could inhibit us from operating and expanding our business in the future. additionally, gm has received a non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide license to use the “allison transmission” name and certain related trademarks on gm’s line of a1000 transmission for use primarily in class 2 and 3 pick up trucks. if gm, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliated entities, or any third party uses the trade name “allison transmission” in ways that adversely affect such trade name or trademark, our reputation could suffer damage, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in connection with the acquisition transaction, we entered into a mutual non-compete agreement with gm that restricts gm from competing with us in non-military vehicles in north america with gross vehicle weights above 5900 kilograms (typically class 4 and higher) with some limited exceptions for certain gm light-duty pickup truck and van platforms. it also restricts gm from competing with us in military vehicles globally and in non-military vehicles outside north america that exceed 4250 kilograms (generally class 3 to class 4 and higher) with some limited exceptions. the non-compete periods extend until august 2017 globally, except in europe, where they expired in 2012. similarly, we are restricted from competing with gm in weight classes below the above mentioned thresholds for similar periods of time. upon expiration of the non-competition periods, both allison and gm will be permitted to compete with each other but such expiration will generally not affect allison’s rights under the patent and technology license agreement to use on an exclusive basis within its respective weight classes (subject to previously mentioned exceptions) the intellectual property that is licensed to allison on an exclusive basis. in addition, because of our current manufacturing services agreement with opel szentgotthard automotive manufacturing ltd., a gm subsidiary, we may be materially adversely affected by the failure of gm to perform as expected. this non-performance may consist of delays or failures caused by production issues. the risk of non-performance may also result from the insolvency or bankruptcy of gm. gm’s ability to provide personnel and technical resources to us is also subject to a number of risks, including destruction of our equipment or work stoppages. in addition, our failure to provide an adequate facility, or order sufficient quantities of inventory, may increase the cost of production or may lead to gm refusing to provide resources to us at all. our efforts to protect against and to minimize these risks may not always be effective.   27 table of contents usage of our net operating losses for u.s. federal income tax purposes may be subject to limitations in the future. as of december 31, 2012, we had $363.0 million of net operating losses for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if we continue to generate taxable income in the future, we may be able to utilize these net operating losses to offset future federal income tax liabilities. in addition, our future financial performance may diminish our tax savings more rapidly than we currently anticipate. to the extent possible, we will structure our operating activities to minimize our income tax liabilities. however, there can be no assurance we will be able to reduce it to a specified level. additionally, we are a controlled company, with two of our shareholders owning approximately 82% of our common stock, and should either of these shareholders sell a significant amount of their holdings we may experience a delay in our ability to recognize a portion of our net operating losses under internal revenue code 382. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth. pursuant to gaap, we are required to assess our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets to determine if they are impaired on an annual basis, or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over the useful life and are reviewed for impairment on triggering events such as events or changes in circumstances indicating that an impairment may have occurred. if the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill or the carrying value of the intangible assets and the fair value of the intangible assets in the period the determination is made. disruptions to our business, end market conditions, protracted economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results may result in charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. our annual goodwill and trade name impairment test for the year ended december 31, 2012 resulted in no impairment. although our analysis regarding the fair values of our goodwill and trade name indicates that they more likely than not exceed their carrying values, materially different assumptions regarding the future performance of our business could result in impairment losses. see note 2 and note 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on from 10-k for additional details. we are controlled by carlyle and onex, whose interests in our business may be different than our other stockholders. as of december 31, 2012, carlyle and onex each owned approximately 40.9% of our equity. pursuant to an amended and restated stockholders agreement, a majority of the board of directors has been designated by carlyle and onex and is affiliated with carlyle and onex. see part iii, item 13, “certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence” of this annual report on form 10-k. as a result, carlyle and onex or their nominees to the board of directors have the ability to control the appointment of our management, the entering into of mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary transactions and influence amendments to our certificate of incorporation. so long as carlyle and onex continue to own a majority of our equity, they will have the ability to control the vote in any election of directors and will have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires stockholder approval regardless of whether others believe the transaction is in our best interests. the interests of carlyle and onex could conflict with those of our other stockholders. in addition, carlyle and onex may in the future own businesses that directly compete with ours. our ability to pay regular dividends on our common stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our structure and statutory restrictions and restrictions imposed by the senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the 7.125% senior notes as well as any future agreements. our board of directors declared quarterly dividends of $0.06 per share of common stock beginning in the second quarter of 2012. however, the payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. the senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the 7.125% senior notes also effectively limit our ability to pay dividends. as a consequence of these limitations and restrictions, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our common stock. accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your common stock after price appreciation in order to generate cash flow from your investment. you may not receive a gain on your investment when you sell your common stock and you may lose the entire amount of the investment. additionally, any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   28 table of contents provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock. as of march 12, 2012, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. these provisions:     •   authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt;     •   limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors only “for cause” if the sponsors and their respective affiliates (other than allison) collectively cease to own more than 50% of our common stock;     •   prohibit our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders if the sponsors and their respective affiliates (other than allison) collectively cease to own more than 50% of our common stock;     •   prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders, if the sponsors and their respective affiliates (other than allison) collectively cease to own more than 50% of our common stock;     •   provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws;     •   establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings;     •   establish a classified board of directors, with three staggered terms; and     •   require the approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of common stock to amend the bylaws and certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation if the sponsors and their respective affiliates (other than allison) collectively cease to own more than 50% of our common stock. these anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our non-controlling stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those they desire. we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the nyse rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. as of december 31, 2012, carlyle and onex continue to control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. as a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the nyse corporate governance standards. under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including:     •   the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors;     •   the requirement that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities;     •   the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and     •   the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance committee and compensation committee. we currently utilize certain of these exemptions and intend to continue to do so for so long as we continue to qualify as a “controlled company.” our nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees do not consist entirely of independent directors and such committees are not subject to annual performance evaluations. accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the nyse.   29 table of contents item 1b. unresolved