item 1a. risk factors   you should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, including our annual consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto before making a decision to purchase our securities. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, may also impair our operations and performance.   if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if that happens, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.   risks related to our investing, active portfolio management and financing strategy   we may experience significant short-term gains or losses and, consequently, greater earnings volatility as a result of our active portfolio management strategy.   our manager employs an active management strategy on our behalf to achieve our principal objectives of generating attractive risk-adjusted returns and preserving our net asset value. our active management strategy involves buying and selling securities in all sectors of the agency securities market, including fixed-rate agency securities, adjustable-rate agency securities, options to enter into agency securities and agency cmos, based on our manager’s continual assessment of the relative risk and return of those securities. therefore, the composition of our portfolio will vary as our manager believes changes to market conditions, risks, and valuations warrant. consequently, we may experience significant investment gains or losses when we sell securities that our manager no longer believes provide attractive risk-adjusted returns or when our manager believes more attractive alternatives are available in the agency securities market. with an active management strategy, our manager may be incorrect in its assessment of our portfolio and select a portfolio that could generate lower returns than a more static management strategy. also, investors are less able to assess the changes in our valuation and performance by observing changes in the agency securities market since we may have changed our strategy and portfolio from the last publicly available data. we may also experience fluctuations in leverage as we pursue our active management strategy.   the potential of the u.s. government to limit or wind down the role fannie mae and freddie mac play in the mortgage-backed securities market may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.   on february 11, 2011, the u.s. treasury issued a white paper titled “reforming america’s housing finance market” (the “white paper”) that lays out, among other things, proposals to limit or potentially wind down the role that fannie mae and freddie mac play in the mortgage market. any such proposals, if enacted, may have broad adverse implications for the mortgage-backed securities market and for our business, operations and financial condition. we expect such proposals to be the subject of significant discussion and it is not yet possible to determine whether or when such proposals may be enacted, what form any final legislation or policies might take and how proposals, legislation or policies emanating from the white paper may impact the mortgage-backed securities market and our business, operations and financial condition. we are evaluating, and will continue to evaluate, the potential impact of the proposals set forth in the white paper.   to the extent that we invest in agency securities that are guaranteed by fannie mae and freddie mac, we are subject to the risk that these u.s. government-sponsored entities may not be able to fully satisfy their guarantee obligations or that these guarantee obligations may be repudiated, which may adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and our ability to sell or finance these securities.   the interest and principal payments we receive on the agency securities in which we invest are guaranteed by fannie mae, freddie mac or ginnie mae. unlike the ginnie mae certificates in which we may invest, the principal and interest on securities issued by fannie mae and freddie mac are not guaranteed by the u.s. government. all the agency securities in which we invest depend on a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities.   18 table of contents due to concerns about fannie mae and freddie mac’s ability to withstand future credit losses associated with securities held in their investment portfolios, and on which they provide guarantees, without the direct support of the u.s. government, congress passed the housing and economic recovery act of 2008 (“hera”). among other things, hera established the federal housing finance agency (“fhfa”), which has broad regulatory powers over fannie mae and freddie mac. on september 6, 2008, fhfa placed fannie mae and freddie mac into conservatorship. as the conservator of fannie mae and freddie mac, fhfa controls and directs their operations and may (1) take over the assets of and operate fannie mae and freddie mac with all the powers of their shareholders, directors and officers of fannie mae and freddie mac and conduct all business of fannie mae and freddie mac; (2) collect all obligations and money due to fannie mae and freddie mac; (3) perform all functions of fannie mae and freddie mac that are consistent with the conservator’s appointment; (4) preserve and conserve the assets and property of fannie mae and freddie mac; and (5) contract for assistance in fulfilling any function, activity, action or duty of the conservator.   fhfa also has the right to transfer or sell any asset or liability of freddie mac or fannie mae, including its guarantee obligation, without any approval, assignment or consent. if fhfa were to transfer freddie mac or fannie mae’s guarantee obligations to another party, holders of agency securities would have to rely on that party for satisfaction of the guarantee obligation and would be exposed to the credit risk of that party.   the u.s. treasury has committed capital to fannie mae and freddie mac through 2012, however, there can be no assurance that these actions will be adequate for their needs. if these actions are inadequate, fannie mae and freddie mac could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations.   any failure by fannie mae or freddie mac to honor guarantees on agency securities could cause a significant decline in cash flow from, and value of, any agency securities we may own. we may be unable to sell or finance agency securities on favorable terms or at all and our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. furthermore, the current credit support provided by the u.s. treasury to fannie mae and freddie mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rates we expect to receive from mortgage-backed securities, and tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our mortgage-backed securities and the cost of financing those assets.   new laws may be passed affecting the relationship between fannie mae or freddie mac, on the one hand, and the u.s. government, on the other, which could adversely affect the availability and pricing of agency securities and the ability to obtain financing against agency securities.   legislation has been passed and additional legislation may be proposed in the future to change the relationship between fannie mae or freddie mac, on the one hand, and the u.s. government, on the other hand, or that requires fannie mae and freddie mac to reduce the amount of mortgages they own or limit the amount of securities they guarantee. we intend to invest exclusively in agency securities, other than for hedging purposes. if any such further legislation is enacted into law, it may lead to market uncertainty and the actual or perceived impairment in the credit quality of securities issued by fannie mae or freddie mac. this may increase the risk of loss on investments in fannie mae and/or freddie mac-issued securities. any legislation requiring fannie mae or freddie mac to reduce the amount of mortgages they own or for which they guarantee payments on could adversely affect the availability and pricing of agency securities and our ability to obtain financing against agency securities and, therefore, adversely affect our business prospects.   market conditions have disrupted the historical relationship between interest rate changes and prepayment trends, which make it more difficult for our manager to analyze our investment portfolio.   our success depends on our manager’s ability to analyze the relationship of changing interest rates on prepayments of the mortgage loans that underlie our agency securities. changes in interest rates and prepayments affect the market price of the agency securities that we intend to purchase and any agency securities that we hold at a given time. as part of our overall portfolio risk management, our manager analyzes interest rate changes and   19 table of contents prepayment trends separately and collectively to assess their effects on our investment portfolio. in conducting its analysis, our manager depends on certain assumptions based upon historical trends with respect to the relationship between interest rates and prepayments under normal market conditions. the recent dislocations in the residential mortgage market and other developments have disrupted the relationship between the way that prepayment trends have historically responded to interest rate changes and, consequently, may negatively impact our manager’s ability to (i) assess the market value of our investment portfolio, (ii) implement our hedging strategies and (iii) implement techniques to reduce our prepayment rate volatility, which could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.   continued adverse developments in the broader residential mortgage market may adversely affect the value of the agency securities in which we invest.   since 2008, the residential mortgage market in the united states has experienced a variety of unprecedented difficulties and changed economic conditions, including defaults, credit losses and liquidity concerns. many of these conditions are expected to continue in 2011 and beyond. certain commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies announced extensive losses from exposure to the residential mortgage market. these losses reduced financial industry capital, leading to reduced liquidity for some institutions. these factors have impacted investor perception of the risk associated with real estate related assets, including agency securities and other high-quality residential mortgage-backed securities (“rmbs”) assets. as a result, values for rmbs assets, including some agency securities and other aaa-rated rmbs assets, have experienced a certain amount of volatility. further increased volatility and deterioration in the broader residential mortgage and rmbs markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of our agency securities.   we invest exclusively in agency securities (other than for hedging purposes) and rely on our agency securities as collateral for our financings. any decline in their value, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would likely make it difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, or maintain our compliance with terms of any financing arrangements already in place. substantially all of the agency securities we invest in are classified for accounting purposes as available-for-sale. all assets classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. agency securities that we invest in that are classified as trading securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in current income. as a result, a decline in fair values may reduce the book value of our assets. moreover, if the decline in fair value of an available-for-sale security is other-than-temporarily impaired, such decline will reduce earnings. if market conditions result in a decline in the fair value of our agency securities, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected.   federal reserve programs to purchase securities could have an adverse impact on the agency securities in which we invest.   beginning in november 2008, the federal reserve initiated a program to purchase direct obligations of fannie mae, freddie mac and the federal home loan bank and agency securities backed by fannie mae, freddie mac and ginnie mae. in total, this program resulted in the federal reserve purchasing $300 billion of direct obligations and $1.75 trillion of agency securities with the purchase program ending in the first quarter of 2010. one of the effects of this program has been to increase competition for available direct obligations and agency securities, with the result being an increase in pricing of such securities. the federal reserve may hold the direct obligations and agency mortgage securities to maturity or may sell them on the open market. sales by the federal reserve of the direct obligations or agency mortgage securities that it currently holds may reduce the market price of such securities. reductions in the market price of agency mortgage securities may negatively impact our book value.   in addition, the federal reserve initiated a program in november 2010 to purchase up to $600 billion of long-term u.s. treasury securities by mid-2011 as part of its continuing effort to help stimulate the economy by   20 table of contents reducing mortgage and interest rates. such action could negatively affect our income or our net book value by impacting interest rate levels and the spread between mortgage rates and other interest rates. thus, these actions could reduce the yields on assets that we are targeting for purchase, thereby reducing our net interest spreads. alternatively, the federal reserve’s actions may not have the intended impact and could create inflation and higher interest rates. this could negatively impact our net book value or our funding cost.   changes in the underwriting standards by freddie mac or fannie mae could have an adverse impact on the agency securities in which we invest.   in april 2010, freddie mac and fannie mae announced tighter underwriting guidelines for arms and hybrid interest-only arms in particular. specifically, freddie mac announced that it would no longer purchase interest-only mortgages and fannie mae changed its eligibility criteria for purchasing and securitizing arms to protect consumers from potentially dramatic payment increases. our targeted investments include arms and hybrid arms. tighter underwriting standards by freddie mac or fannie mae could reduce the supply of arms, resulting in a reduction in the attractiveness of the asset class.   failure to procure adequate repurchase agreement financing, or to renew (roll) or replace existing repurchase agreement financing as it matures, would adversely affect our results of operations and may, in turn, negatively affect the market value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.   we use repurchase agreement financing as a strategy to increase our return on equity. however, we may not be able to achieve our desired leverage ratio for a number of reasons, including if the following events occur:     •   our lenders do not make repurchase agreement financing available to us at acceptable rates;     •   certain of our lenders exit the repurchase market;     •   our lenders require that we pledge additional collateral to cover our borrowings, which we may be unable to do; or     •   we determine that the leverage would expose us to excessive risk.   we cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, repurchase agreement financing will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. since 2008, there have been several mergers, acquisitions or bankruptcies of investment banks and commercial banks that have historically acted as repurchase agreement counterparties. this has resulted in a fewer number of potential repurchase agreement counterparties operating in the market. in addition, since 2008 many commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies have announced extensive losses from exposure to the residential mortgage market. these losses reduced financial industry capital, leading to reduced liquidity for some institutions. institutions from which we seek to obtain financing may have owned or financed rmbs that have declined in value and caused them to suffer losses as a result of the recent downturn in the residential mortgage market. if these conditions persist, these institutions may be forced to exit the repurchase market, become insolvent or further tighten their lending standards or increase the amount of equity capital or haircut required to obtain financing, and in such event, could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. in the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions, and you may lose part or all of your investment   furthermore, because we rely primarily on short-term borrowings, our ability to achieve our investment objective depends not only on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms, but also on our ability to renew or replace on a continuous basis our maturing short-term borrowings. if we are not able to renew or replace maturing borrowings, we may have to sell some or all of our assets, possibly under adverse market conditions.   21 table of contents pursuant to the terms of borrowings under our master repurchase agreements, we are subject to margin calls that could result in defaults or force us to sell assets under adverse market conditions or through foreclosure.   we have entered into master repurchase agreements with a number of financial institutions. we have borrowed under certain of these master repurchase agreements to finance the acquisition of agency securities for our investment portfolio. pursuant to the terms of borrowings under our master repurchase agreements, a decline in the value of the agency securities may result in our lenders initiating margin calls. a margin call means that the lender requires us to pledge additional collateral to re-establish the ratio of the value of the collateral to the amount of the borrowing. the specific collateral value to borrowing ratio that would trigger a margin call is not set in the master repurchase agreements and will not be determined until we engage in a repurchase transaction under these agreements. our fixed-rate agency securities generally may be more susceptible to margin calls as increases in interest rates tend to affect more negatively the market value of fixed-rate securities. in addition, certain of our agency securities may be more illiquid than other securities in which we invest, which could cause them to be more susceptible to margin calls in a volatile market environment. moreover, agency securities that prepay more quickly increase the frequency and magnitude of potential margin calls as there is a significant time lag between when the prepayment is reported (which reduces the market value of the security) and when the principal payment is actually received. if we are unable to satisfy margin calls, our lenders may foreclose on our collateral. the threat of or occurrence of a margin call could force us to sell, either directly or through a foreclosure, our agency securities under adverse market conditions. because of our leverage, we may incur substantial losses upon the threat or occurrence of a margin call.   our borrowings, which are generally made under our master repurchase agreements, may qualify for special treatment under the u.s. bankruptcy code. this special treatment would allow the lenders under these agreements to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the u.s. bankruptcy code and to liquidate the collateral under these agreements without delay.   if our lenders pursuant to our repurchase transactions default on their obligations to resell the underlying agency security back to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying agency security has declined by the end of the term or if we default on our obligations under the transaction, we will lose money on these transactions.   when we engage in a repurchase transaction, we initially sell securities to the financial institution under one of our master repurchase agreements in exchange for cash and our counterparty is obligated to resell the securities to us at the end of the term of the transaction, which is typically from 30 to 90 days, but which may have terms from one day to 364 days. the cash we receive when we initially sell the securities is less than the value of those securities, which is referred to as the “haircut”. as a result, we are able to borrow against a smaller portion of the agency securities we initially sell in these transactions. increased haircuts require us to post additional collateral for our agency securities. the haircut rates under our master repurchase agreements are not set until we engage in a specific repurchase transaction under these agreements. if our counterparty defaults on its obligation to resell the securities to us, we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities). any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings, and, thus, our cash available for distribution to our stockholders.   if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the counterparty can terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. in that case, we would likely need to establish a replacement repurchase facility with another financial institution in order to continue to leverage our portfolio and carry out our investment strategy. there is no assurance we would be able to secure a suitable replacement facility on acceptable terms or at all.   22 table of contents differences in timing of interest rate adjustments on adjustable-rate agency securities we may acquire and our borrowings may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.   certain of the agency securities we acquire are adjustable-rate agency securities. this means that their interest rates may vary over time based upon changes in an objective index, such as     •   libor, which is the interest rate that banks in london offer for deposits in london of u.s. dollars;     •   the treasury rate, which is a monthly or weekly average yield of benchmark u.s. treasury securities, as published by the federal reserve board; or     •   the cd rate, which is the weekly average or secondary market interest rates on six-month negotiable certificates of deposit, as published by the federal reserve board.   these indices generally reflect short-term interest rates. we rely primarily on short-term borrowings to acquire agency securities with long-term maturities. the relationship between short-term and longer-term interest rates is often referred to as the “yield curve.” ordinarily, short-term interest rates are lower than longer-term interest rates. if short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to longer-term interest rates (a flattening of the yield curve), our borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on our assets. because we expect our investments in agency securities generally will bear interest at longer-term rates than we pay on our borrowings, a flattening of the yield curve would tend to decrease our net income and the market value of the agency securities in our investment portfolio. additionally, to the extent cash flows from investments that return scheduled and unscheduled principal are reinvested, the spread between the yields on the new investments and available borrowing rates may decline, which would likely decrease our net income. it is also possible that short-term interest rates may exceed longer-term interest rates (a yield curve inversion), in which event, our borrowing costs may exceed our interest income and we could incur operating losses and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be hindered.   interest rate caps on mortgages backing our adjustable rate agency securities may adversely affect our profitability.   adjustable-rate mortgages backing our agency securities will typically be subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during any given period. lifetime interest rate caps on underlying mortgages limit the amount an interest rate can increase through the maturity of an agency security. our borrowings typically will not be subject to similar restrictions. accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates paid on our borrowings could increase without limitation while caps on underlying mortgages could limit the interest rates on our adjustable-rate agency securities. this problem is magnified for hybrid adjustable-rate and adjustable-rate agency securities that are not fully indexed. further, some hybrid adjustable-rate and adjustable-rate agency securities may be subject to periodic payment caps on underlying mortgages that result in a portion of the interest being deferred and added to the principal outstanding. as a result, we may receive less cash income on hybrid adjustable-rate and adjustable-rate agency securities than we need to pay interest on our related borrowings. these factors could reduce our net interest income and cause us to suffer a loss.   an increase in interest rates may cause a decrease in the volume of newly issued, or investor demand for, agency securities, which could adversely affect our ability to acquire assets that satisfy our investment objectives and to generate income and pay dividends, while a decrease in interest rates may cause an increase in the volume of newly issued, or investor demand for, agency securities, which could negatively affect the valuations for our agency securities and may adversely affect our liquidity profile.   rising interest rates generally reduce the demand for consumer credit, including mortgage loans, due to the higher cost of borrowing. a reduction in the volume of mortgage loans originated may affect the volume of agency securities available to us, which could affect our ability to acquire assets that satisfy our investment objectives. if rising interest rates cause us to be unable to acquire a sufficient volume of agency securities or agency securities with a yield that exceeds the borrowing cost, our ability to satisfy our investment objectives and to generate income and pay dividends, may be materially and adversely affected.   23 table of contents declining interest rates generally increase the demand for consumer credit, including mortgage loans, due to the lower cost of borrowing. an increase in the volume of mortgage loans originated may negatively impact the valuation for our existing investment portfolio. a negative impact on valuations of our agency securities could have an adverse impact on our liquidity profile in the event that we are required to post margin under our repurchase agreements, which could materially and adversely impact our business.   because we invest in fixed-rate securities, an increase in interest rates on our borrowings may adversely affect our book value or our net interest income.   increases in interest rates may negatively affect the market value of our agency securities. any fixed-rate securities we invest in generally will be more negatively affected by these increases than adjustable-rate securities. in accordance with gaap, we are required to reduce our stockholders’ equity, or book value, by the amount of any decrease in the fair value of our agency securities that are classified as available-for-sale. reductions in stockholders’ equity could decrease the amounts we may borrow to purchase additional agency securities, which may restrict our ability to increase our net income. furthermore, if our funding costs are rising while our interest income is fixed, our net interest income will contract and could become negative.   changes in prepayment rates may adversely affect our profitability.   the agency securities in our investment portfolio are backed by pools of mortgage loans. we receive payments, generally, from the payments that are made on these underlying mortgage loans. when borrowers prepay their mortgage loans at rates that are faster or slower than expected, it results in prepayments that are faster or slower than expected on the related agency securities. these faster or slower than expected payments may adversely affect our profitability.   we may purchase agency securities that have a higher interest rate than the then prevailing market interest rate. in exchange for this higher interest rate, we may pay a premium to par value to acquire the security. in accordance with gaap, we amortize this premium over the expected term of the agency security based on our prepayment assumptions. if the agency security is prepaid in whole or in part at a faster than expected rate, however, we must expense all or a part of the remaining unamortized portion of the premium that was paid at the time of the purchase, which will adversely affect our profitability.   we also may purchase agency securities that have a lower interest rate than the then prevailing market interest rate. in exchange for this lower interest rate, we may pay a discount to par value to acquire the security. we accrete this discount over the expected term of the agency security based on our prepayment assumptions. if the agency security is prepaid at a slower than expected rate, however, we must accrete the remaining portion of the discount at a slower than expected rate. this will extend the expected life of the portfolio and result in a lower than expected yield on securities purchased at a discount to par.   prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. prepayments can also occur when borrowers sell the property and use the sale proceeds to prepay the mortgage as part of a physical relocation or when borrowers default on their mortgages and the mortgages are prepaid from the proceeds of a foreclosure sale of the property. fannie mae and freddie mac will generally, among other conditions, purchase mortgages that are 120 days or more delinquent from mbs trusts when the cost of guarantee payments to security holders, including advances of interest at the security coupon rate, exceeds the cost of holding the nonperforming loans in their portfolios. consequently, prepayment rates also may be affected by conditions in the housing and financial markets, which may result in increased delinquencies on mortgage loans, the government-sponsored entities cost of capital, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on frm and arm loans, which could lead to an acceleration of the payment of the related principal. additionally, changes in the government-sponsored entities’ decisions as to when to repurchase delinquent loans can materially impact prepayment rates.   24 table of contents in addition, the introduction of new government programs, such as the u.s. treasury’s hasp program, could increase the availability of mortgage credit to a large number of homeowners in the u.s., which we would expect would impact the prepayment rates for the entire mortgage securities market, but primarily for fannie mae and freddie mac agency securities. these new programs along with any new additional programs or changes to existing programs may cause substantial uncertainty around the magnitude of changes in prepayment speeds. to the extent that actual prepayment speeds differ from our expectations, it could adversely affect our operating results.   changes in accounting rules may adversely affect our profitability.   in may 2010, the financial accounting standards board (“fasb”), issued an exposure draft of proposed accounting standards update, accounting for financial instruments and revisions to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities. under this proposal, among other things, most financial instruments would be measured at fair value with all changes in fair value recognized in net income each reporting period instead of other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders’ equity. the fasb will continue deliberations on the proposed accounting guidance and expects to issue a final accounting standards update in the second quarter of 2011. any final accounting standard could require us to record all changes in fair value of our agency securities in net income each reporting period, which could have an adverse affect on our net income.   our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating the risks associated with interest rates.   subject to complying with reit tax requirements and non-qualifying income limits, we intend to employ techniques that limit, or “hedge,” the adverse effects of changes in interest rates on our short-term repurchase agreements and our net book value. in general, our hedging strategy depends on our manager’s view of our entire portfolio, consisting of assets, liabilities and derivative instruments, in light of prevailing market conditions. our hedging activities are generally designed to limit certain exposures and not to eliminate them. in addition, they may be unsuccessful and we could misjudge the condition of our investment portfolio or the market. our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal repayments, the type of securities held and other changing market conditions. our actual hedging decisions will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time and may differ from our currently anticipated hedging strategy. these techniques may include entering into interest rate swap agreements, interest rate swaptions, tbas, short sales, caps, collars, floors, forward contracts, options, futures or other types of hedging transactions. we may conduct certain hedging transactions through our trs, which will subject those transactions to federal, state and, if applicable, local income tax.   there are no perfect hedging strategies, and interest rate hedging may fail to protect us from loss. alternatively, our manager may fail to assess properly a risk to our investment portfolio or may fail to recognize a risk entirely, leaving us exposed to losses without the benefit of any offsetting hedging activities. the derivative financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. poorly designed hedging strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. in addition, hedging activities could result in losses if the event against which we hedge does not occur. for example, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us or adversely affect us because, among other things:     •   available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;     •   the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability;     •   as explained in further detail in the risk factor immediately below, the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay;     •   the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and   25 table of contents   •   the value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with gaap to reflect changes in fair value. downward adjustments, or “mark-to-market losses,” would reduce our stockholders’ equity.   whether the derivatives we acquire achieve hedge accounting treatment under accounting standards codification (“asc”) topic 815, derivatives and hedging (“asc 815”), or not, hedging generally involves costs and risks. our hedging strategies may adversely affect us because hedging activities involve costs that we will incur regardless of the effectiveness of the hedging activity. those costs may be higher in periods of market volatility, both because the counterparties to our derivative agreements may demand a higher payment for taking risks, and because repeated adjustments of our hedges during periods of interest rate changes also may increase costs. especially if our hedging strategies are not effective, we could incur significant hedging-related costs without any corresponding economic benefits.   our use of certain hedging techniques may expose us to counterparty risks.   if a swap counterparty under an interest rate swap agreement that we intend to enter into as part of our hedging strategy cannot perform under the terms of the interest rate swap agreement, we may not receive payments due under that agreement, and, thus, we may lose any potential benefit associated with the interest rate swap. additionally, we may also risk the loss of any collateral we have pledged to secure our obligations under the interest rate swap agreement if the counterparty becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy. similarly, if an interest rate cap counterparty fails to perform under the terms of the interest rate cap agreement, in addition to not receiving payments due under that agreement that would off-set our interest expense, we could also incur a loss for all remaining unamortized premium paid for that security.   pursuant to the terms of our master swap agreements, we are subject to margin calls that could result in defaults or force us to sell assets under adverse market conditions or through foreclosure.   certain of our master swap agreements (governed by the international swaps and derivatives association, inc. or “isda”) require that we post initial collateral upon execution of swap agreements. in addition, our master swap agreements contain provisions under which we are required to collateralize fully our obligations under the derivative instrument, such that if at any point the fair value of the derivative represents a liability greater than the minimum transfer amount contained within our agreement, the counterparty may initiate a margin call for the difference. if we fail to satisfy the margin call, we will be required to settle our obligations under the agreements at their termination values.   further, our master swap agreements also contain a cross default provision under which a default under certain of our other indebtedness in excess of a certain threshold amount causes an event of default under the agreement. following an event of default, we could be required to settle our obligations under the agreements at their termination values.   the threat of or occurrence of margin calls or the forced settlement of our obligations under our master swap agreements at their termination values could force us to sell, either directly or through a foreclosure, our agency securities under adverse market conditions. because of the leverage we have, we may incur substantial losses upon the threat or occurrence of either of these events.   we may fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment.   we record certain derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swap agreements, as cash flow hedges in accordance with asc 815. under this standard, unrealized gains and losses on derivative financial instruments that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting are recorded as other comprehensive income (loss) (“oci”) (a component of stockholders’ equity). we may fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment under asc 815 for a number of reasons, including if we fail to satisfy hedge documentation and hedge effectiveness assessment requirements or our instruments are not highly effective. if we fail to qualify for hedge accounting   26 table of contents treatment, our operating results may suffer because we would be required to record changes in the fair value of these derivative instruments in net income each reporting period, while changes in the fair value of our available-for-sale mortgage-backed securities would continue to be recorded as oci.   our strategy involves significant leverage, which may cause substantial losses.   our leverage may vary periodically depending on market conditions, but we generally expect our leverage to vary with market conditions and our assessment of risk and returns. we generally expect our leverage to be within six to eleven times the amount of our stockholders’ equity. however, under certain market conditions, we may operate at leverage levels outside of this range for extended periods of time. we will incur this leverage by borrowing against a substantial portion of the market value of our agency securities. by incurring this leverage, we could enhance our returns. nevertheless, this leverage, which is fundamental to our investment strategy, also creates significant risks.   because of our significant leverage, we may incur substantial losses if our borrowing costs increase. our borrowing costs may increase for any of the following reasons:     •   short-term interest rates increase;     •   interest rate volatility increases; or     •   the availability of financing in the market decreases.   our rights under our repurchase agreements will be subject to the effects of the bankruptcy laws in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of us or our lenders under the repurchase agreements.   in the event of our insolvency or bankruptcy, certain repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the u.s. bankruptcy code, the effect of which, among other things, would be to allow the lender under the applicable repurchase agreement to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the u.s. bankruptcy code and to foreclose on the collateral agreement without delay. in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a lender during the term of a repurchase agreement, the lender may be permitted, under applicable insolvency laws, to repudiate the contract, and our claim against the lender for damages may be treated simply as an unsecured creditor. in addition, if the lender is a broker or dealer subject to the securities investor protection act of 1970, or an insured depository institution subject to the federal deposit insurance act, our ability to exercise our rights to recover our securities under a repurchase agreement or to be compensated for any damages resulting from the lender’s insolvency may be further limited by those statutes. these claims would be subject to significant delay and, if and when received, may be substantially less than the damages we actually incur.   future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which could dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   in the future, we may raise capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities. upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred stock, if any, and lenders with respect to other borrowings will be entitled to our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments or could have mandatory redemption provisions triggered under certain events that could limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in us.   27 table of contents we have not established a minimum dividend payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to pay dividends in the future.   we intend to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders. we have not established a minimum dividend payment level and the amount of our dividend will fluctuate. all distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, the requirements for reit qualification and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. we may not be able to make distributions in the future or our board of directors may change our dividend policy in the future. in addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. to the extent that we decide to pay dividends in excess of our current and accumulated tax earnings and profits, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. a return of capital reduces the basis of a stockholder’s investment in our common stock to the extent of such basis and is treated as capital gain thereafter.   the stock ownership limit imposed by the internal revenue code for reits and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may restrict our business combination opportunities.   to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the internal revenue code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year after our first year in which we qualify as a reit. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to qualify as a reit. pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, no person may beneficially or constructively own more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our common or capital stock. our board of directors may grant an exemption from this 9.8% stock ownership limitation, in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine are reasonably necessary. our board of directors granted american capital an exemption from this ownership limitation. pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the power to increase or decrease the percentage of common or capital stock that a person may beneficially or constructively own. however, any decreased stock ownership limit will not apply to any person whose percentage ownership of our common or capital stock, as the case may be, is in excess of such decreased stock ownership limit until that person’s percentage ownership of our common or capital stock, as the case may be, equals or falls below the decreased stock ownership limit. until such a person’s percentage ownership of our common or capital stock, as the case may be, falls below such decreased stock ownership limit, any further acquisition of common stock will be in violation of the decreased stock ownership limit. the ownership limits imposed by the tax law are based upon direct or indirect ownership by “individuals,” but only during the last half of a tax year. the ownership limits contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation apply to the ownership at any time by any “person,” which term includes entities. these ownership limitations are intended to assist us in complying with the tax law requirements, and to minimize administrative burdens. however, these ownership limits might also delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.   the stock ownership limitation contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation generally does not permit ownership in excess of 9.8% of our common or capital stock, and attempts to acquire our common or capital stock in excess of these limits will be ineffective unless an exemption is granted by our board of directors.   as described above, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation generally prohibits beneficial or constructive ownership by any person of more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our common or capital stock, unless exempted by our board of directors. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation’s constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. as a result, the acquisition of less than these percentages of the outstanding stock by an   28 table of contents individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of these percentages of the outstanding stock and thus be subject to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation’s ownership limit. any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common or preferred stock (if and when issued) in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of the board of directors will result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or, if the transfer to a charitable trust would not be effective, such transfer being treated as invalid from the outset.   anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a change of control that our stockholders may favor, which could also adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. we could issue a series of preferred stock to impede the completion of a merger, tender offer or other takeover attempt. the anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may impede takeover attempts, or other transactions, that may be in the best interests of our stockholders and, in particular, our common stockholders. in addition, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected to the extent that provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws discourage potential takeover attempts, or other transactions, that our stockholders may favor.   risks related to conflicts of interest in our relationship with our manager and american capital   the management agreement was not negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and the terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it were negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.   the management agreement was negotiated between related parties prior to our ipo, and we did not have the benefit of arm’s-length negotiations of the type normally conducted with an unaffiliated third party. the terms of the management agreement, including fees payable, may not reflect the terms we may have received if it was negotiated with an unrelated third party. in addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the management agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with our manager.   we have no employees and our manager is responsible for making all of our investment decisions. certain of our manager’s officers are employees of american capital and are not required to devote any specific amount of time to our business and each of them may provide their services to american capital, its affiliates and sponsored investment vehicles, which could result in conflicts of interest.   because we have no employees, our manager is responsible for making all of our investment decisions. certain of our and our manager’s officers are employees of american capital or its affiliates and these persons do not devote their time exclusively to us. our manager’s investment committee consists of messrs. malon wilkus, john r. erickson, samuel a. flax and thomas a. mchale, each of whom is an officer of american capital and has significant responsibilities to american capital and certain of its portfolio companies, affiliated entities or managed funds. because certain of our and our manager’s officers are also responsible for providing services to american capital and/or certain of its portfolio companies, affiliated entities or managed funds, they may not devote sufficient time to the management of our business operations.   american capital has agreed that so long as the manager or an affiliate of american capital continues to manage our company, it will not sponsor another investment vehicle that invests predominantly in whole pool agency securities. this restriction does not prevent american capital or an affiliate of american capital from investing in or sponsoring an investment vehicle that targets investments in agency securities so long as those investments are not predominately whole pool agency securities, and, as a result, american capital or an affiliate of american capital may compete with us. our board of directors has adopted investment guidelines that   29 table of contents require that any investment transaction between us and american capital or any affiliate of american capital receives the prior approval of a majority of our independent directors. however, this policy does not eliminate the conflicts of interest that our and our manager’s officers will face in making investment decisions on behalf of american capital, any other american capital-sponsored investment vehicles and us. further, we do not have any agreement or understanding with american capital that would give us any priority over american capital, any of its affiliates, or any such american capital-sponsored investment vehicle in opportunities to invest in agency securities. accordingly, we may compete for access to the benefits that we expect our relationship with our manager and american capital to provide.   we are completely dependent upon our manager and certain key personnel of american capital who provide services to us through the management agreement and the administrative services agreement and we may not find suitable replacements for our manager and these personnel if the management agreement and the administrative services agreement are terminated or such key personnel are no longer available to us.   because we have no employees or separate facilities, we are completely dependent on our manager to conduct our operations pursuant to the management agreement. our manager has its own employees, who conduct our day-to-day operations, and has also entered into an administrative services agreement with american capital pursuant to which our manager is provided those additional personnel, services and resources necessary for our manager to perform its obligations and responsibilities under the management agreement in exchange for certain fees payable by our manager. neither the administrative services agreement nor the management agreement requires our manager or american capital to dedicate specific personnel to our operations nor requires any specific personnel of american capital to dedicate a specific amount of time to our business. additionally, because we rely on american capital, we may be negatively impacted by an event or factors that negatively impacts american capital’s business or financial condition.   after the current renewal term of the management agreement, which expires on may 20, 2012, or upon the expiration of any subsequent automatic renewal term, we or our manager may elect not to renew the management agreement without cause on 180-days prior written notice to the other party. if our manager elects not to renew the management agreement without cause, it would not have to pay a termination fee. if a majority of our independent board of directors elects not to renew the management agreement without cause, we would have to pay a significant termination fee.   if we terminate the management agreement without cause, we may not, without the consent of our manager, employ any employee of the manager or any of its affiliates, including american capital, or any person who has been employed by our manager or any of its affiliates at any time within the two year period immediately preceding the date on which the person commences employment with us for two years after such termination of the management agreement. we believe that the successful implementation of our investment and financing strategies depends to a significant extent upon the experience of certain of american capital and our manager’s officers. our manager or american capital has entered into retention agreements with certain of these officers, however, none of these individuals’ continued service is guaranteed. furthermore, if the management agreement is terminated or these individuals leave our manager or american capital, we may be unable to execute our business plan.   we have no recourse to american capital if it does not fulfill its obligations under the administrative services agreement.   we do not have any employees or separate facilities. our manager has its own employees, who substantially conduct our day-to-day operations, and it has also entered into an administrative services agreement with american capital pursuant to which our manager is provided those additional personnel, services and resources necessary for our manager to perform its obligations and responsibilities under the management agreement in exchange for certain fees payable by our manager. although the administrative services agreement may not be terminated unless the management agreement has been terminated pursuant to its terms, american capital may   30 table of contents assign its rights and obligations thereunder to any of its affiliates, including american capital, llc, the parent company of our manager. in addition, because we are not a party to the administrative services agreement, we do not have any recourse to american capital if it does not fulfill its obligations under the administrative services agreement or it elects to assign the agreement to one of its affiliates.   if we elect to not renew the management agreement without cause, we would be required to pay our manager a substantial termination fee. these and other provisions in our management agreement make non-renewal of our management agreement difficult and costly.   electing not to renew the management agreement without cause would be difficult and costly for us. with the consent of the majority of our independent board of directors, we may elect not to renew our management agreement upon the expiration of any automatic annual renewal term, upon 180-days prior written notice. if we elect to not renew the agreement because of a decision by our board of directors that the management fee is unfair, our manager has the right to renegotiate a mutually agreeable management fee. if we elect to not renew the management agreement without cause, we are required to pay our manager a termination fee equal to three times the average annual management fee earned by our manager during the prior 24-month period immediately preceding the most recently completed month prior to the effective date of termination. these provisions may increase the effective cost to us of electing to not renew the management agreement.   our manager’s management fee is based on the amount of our equity and is payable regardless of our performance.   our manager is entitled to receive a monthly management fee from us that is based on the amount of our equity (as defined in our management agreement), regardless of the performance of our investment portfolio. for example, we would pay our manager a management fee for a specific period even if we experienced a net loss during the same period. the amount of the monthly management fee is equal to one twelfth of 1.25% of our equity and therefore is only increased by increases in our equity. increases to our equity would be primarily from equity offerings, which could result in a conflict of interest between our manager and our stockholders with respect to the timing and terms of our equity offerings. our manager’s entitlement to substantial nonperformance-based compensation may reduce its incentive to devote sufficient time and effort to seeking investments that provide attractive risk-adjusted returns for our investment portfolio. this in turn could harm our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.   risks related to our business structure   loss of our exemption from regulation pursuant to the investment company act would adversely affect us.   we conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the investment company act in reliance on the exemption provided by section 3(c)(5)(c) of the investment company act. section 3(c)(5)(c), as interpreted by the staff of the sec, requires that: (i) at least 55% of our investment portfolio consist of “mortgages and other liens on and interest in real estate,” or “qualifying real estate interests,” and (ii) at least 80% of our investment portfolio consist of qualifying real estate interests plus “real estate-related assets.” in satisfying this 55% requirement, we may treat agency securities issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgage loans in which we hold all of the certificates issued by a pool, or a “whole pool”, as qualifying real estate interests. therefore, the agency securities and any other mortgage-related assets that we acquire are limited by the provisions of the investment company act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. if the sec determines that any of these securities are not qualifying interests in real estate or real estate-related assets, adopts a contrary interpretation with respect to these securities or otherwise believes we do not satisfy the above exceptions, we could be required to restructure our activities or sell certain of our assets. we may be required at times to adopt less efficient methods of financing certain of our agency securities and we may be precluded from acquiring certain types of higher yielding agency securities. the net effect of these factors would be to lower our net interest income. if we fail to qualify for an exemption from registration as an investment   31 table of contents company or an exclusion from the definition of an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced. our business will be materially and adversely affected if we fail to qualify for this exemption from regulation pursuant to the investment company act.   we are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate their internal control over financial reporting.   we are required to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, which requires exchange act-reporting companies to assess and attest to the effectiveness of their internal controls over financial reporting and requires their independent registered public accounting firm to audit the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. there can be no assurance that we will continue to receive an unqualified opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm with regard to the effectiveness our internal controls over financial reporting. in addition, legislation regarding exchange act-reporting companies’ internal controls over financial reporting, or other aspects of these companies’ compliance with federal securities laws, may, in the future, be amended so as to impose additional burdens on us. any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and the trading price of our common stock.   we are highly dependent on information and communications systems. any systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect our operations and the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.   our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. any failure or interruption of our or our manager’s systems could cause delays or other problems in our agency securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.   risks related to our taxation as a reit   if we do not qualify as a reit or fail to remain qualified as a reit, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation and could face a substantial tax liability, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders.   we are presently operating in a manner that allows us to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes. we have received an opinion of skadden, arps, slate, meagher & flom llp (“skadden”) with respect to our qualification as a reit. investors should be aware, however, that opinions of counsel are not binding on the irs or any court. the opinion of skadden represents only the view of our counsel based on our counsel’s review and analysis of existing law and on certain representations as to factual matters and covenants made by us and our manager, including representations relating to the values of our assets and the sources of our income. the opinion was expressed as of the date issued and does not cover subsequent periods. skadden has no obligation to advise us or the holders of our common stock of any subsequent change in the matters stated, represented or assumed, or of any subsequent change in applicable law. furthermore, both the validity of the opinion of skadden and our qualification as a reit depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis, the results of which are not monitored by skadden. our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent valuations. our compliance with the annual reit income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to manage successfully the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. moreover, the proper classification of an instrument as debt or equity for federal income tax purposes may be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the application of the reit qualification requirements as described below. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the irs will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or in securities of other issuers will not cause a violation of the reit requirements.   32 table of contents if we were to fail to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. unless we were entitled to relief under certain internal revenue code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a reit.   dividends payable by reits do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.   the maximum tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates has been reduced by legislation to 15% through the end of 2012. dividends of ordinary income payable by reits, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of reits or dividends payable by reits, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in reits to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-reit corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of reits, including our common stock.   reit distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.   we generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. to the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. we intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the reit requirements of the internal revenue code. in addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws.   from time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with gaap, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. for example, if we purchase agency securities at a discount, we are generally required to accrete the discount into taxable income prior to receiving the cash proceeds of the accreted discount at maturity. if we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the reit distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. these alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our stockholders’ equity. thus, compliance with the reit requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.   even if we remain qualified as a reit, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.   even if we remain qualified for taxation as a reit, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, excise tax, and state or local income taxes. any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. in addition, in order to meet the reit qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a reit from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through our trs or other subsidiary corporations, which will be subject to corporate-level income tax at regular rates. any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders.   33 table of contents complying with reit requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities.   to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. we may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a reit. thus, compliance with the reit requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments.   complying with reit requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments.   to qualify as a reit, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified reit real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and agency securities. the remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. in addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more taxable reit subsidiaries. if we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our reit qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. as a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio otherwise attractive investments. these actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.   the failure of agency securities subject to repurchase agreements to qualify as real estate assets could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a reit.   we enter into financing arrangements that are structured as sale and repurchase agreements pursuant to which we would nominally sell certain of our agency securities to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase these securities at a later date in exchange for a purchase price. economically, these agreements are financings that are secured by the agency securities sold pursuant thereto. we believe that we would be treated for reit asset and income test purposes as the owner of the agency securities that are the subject of any such sale and repurchase agreement, notwithstanding that such agreement may transfer record ownership of the agency securities to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. it is possible, however, that the irs could assert that we did not own the agency securities during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case we could fail to qualify as a reit.   liquidation of assets may jeopardize our reit qualification.   to qualify as a reit, we must comply with requirements regarding the composition of our assets and our sources of income. if we are compelled to liquidate our investments to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a reit, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory.   complying with reit requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.   the reit provisions of the internal revenue code only permit us to hedge our liabilities and only provided certain criteria is met. to the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the 75% and 95% gross income tests. as a result of these rules, we intend to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through our trs. this could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our trs   34 table of contents would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. in addition, losses in our trs will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the trs.   qualifying as a reit involves highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code.   qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex internal revenue code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our reit qualification. our qualification as a reit will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. in addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a reit depends in part on the actions of third-parties over which we have no control or only limited influence.   as a reit, if we derive net income from prohibited transactions (as defined in the internal revenue code provisions) it is subject to a 100% tax.   net income that we derive from a prohibited transaction is subject to a 100% tax. the term “prohibited transaction” generally includes a sale or other disposition of property (including agency securities, but other than foreclosure property, as discussed below) that is held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business by us or by a borrower that has issued a shared appreciation mortgage or similar debt instrument to us. we intend to conduct our operations so that no asset that we own (or are treated as owning) will be treated as, or as having been, held for sale to customers, and that a sale of any such asset will not be treated as having been in the ordinary course of our business. whether property is held “primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business” depends on the particular facts and circumstances. no assurance can be given that any property that we sell will not be treated as property held for sale to customers, or that we can comply with certain safe-harbor provisions of the internal revenue code that would prevent such treatment. the 100% tax does not apply to gains from the sale of property that is held through a trs or other taxable corporation, although such income will be subject to tax in the hands of the corporation at regular corporate rates. we intend to structure our activities to avoid prohibited transaction characterization.   risks related to our common stock   changes in laws or regulations governing our operations or our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may adversely affect our business.   we are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal level, including securities and tax laws and financial accounting and reporting standards. these laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations or the failure to comply with these laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business. certain of these laws and regulations pertain specifically to reits.   the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.   the market price and marketability of shares of our securities may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. these factors include the following:     •   price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies;     •   significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of reits or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies;     •   changes in regulatory policies, tax guidelines and financial accounting and reporting standards, particularly with respect to reits;   35 table of contents   •   changes in our dividend policy and earnings or variations in operating results;     •   any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts;     •   decreases in our net asset value per share;     •   general economic trends and other external factors; and     •   loss of major repurchase agreement providers.   fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock and, in the event that we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital.   item 1b. unresolved