item 1a. risk factors an investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. you should consider carefully the material risks described below together with the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before making a decision to invest in our securities. if any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. in that event, the trading price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. this annual report on form 10-k also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below. risks related to our business the federal conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between fannie mae and freddie mac and the federal government, may adversely affect our business. the payments we receive on the agency securities in which we invest depend upon a steady stream of payments by borrowers on the underlying mortgages and the fulfillment of guarantees by gses. ginnie mae is part of a u.s. government agency and its guarantees are backed by the full faith and credit of the u.s. fannie mae and freddie mac are gses, but their guarantees are not backed by the full faith and credit of the u.s government. in response to the deteriorating financial condition of fannie mae and freddie mac and the credit market disruption beginning in 2007, congress and the u.s. treasury undertook a series of actions to stabilize these gses and the financial markets, generally. the housing and economic recovery act of 2008 was signed into law on july 30, 2008, and established the federal housing finance agency (“fhfa”), with enhanced regulatory authority over, among other things, the business activities of fannie mae and freddie mac and the size of their portfolio holdings. on september 7, 2008, fhfa placed fannie mae and freddie mac into federal conservatorship and, together with the u.s. treasury, established a program designed to boost investor confidence in fannie mae’s and freddie mac’s debt and agency securities. as the conservator of fannie mae and freddie mac, the fhfa controls and directs the operations of fannie mae and freddie mac and may (1) take over the assets of and operate fannie mae 7 and freddie mac with all the powers of the stockholders, the directors and the officers of fannie mae and freddie mac and conduct all business of fannie mae and freddie mac; (2) collect all obligations and money due to fannie mae and freddie mac; (3) perform all functions of fannie mae and freddie mac which are consistent with the conservator’s appointment; (4) preserve and conserve the assets and property of fannie mae and freddie mac; and (5) contract for assistance in fulfilling any function, activity, action or duty of the conservator. those efforts resulted in significant u.s. government financial support and increased control of the gses. as part of the conservatorship agreement, the u.s. treasury committed to support the positive net worth of fannie mae and freddie mac with preferred stock purchases as necessary, through the beginning of 2013. in 2013, fannie mae’s bailout was capped at $125.0 billion and freddie mac's was limited to $149.0 billion. the preferred stock purchase agreements, as amended, also require the reduction of fannie mae’s and freddie mac’s mortgage and agency securities portfolios (they must be reduced by at least 15 percent each year until their respective mortgage assets reach $250 billion, which is projected to be 2018). under these agreements, each gse is required to pay to the u.s. treasury a quarterly dividend equal to 10 percent of the total amount drawn under their respective agreements. in 2012, the u.s. treasury announced that that the payments would be replaced by a quarterly sweep of every dollar of profit that each gse earned in the future.  the u.s. federal reserve (the "fed") announced in november 2008 a program of large-scale purchases of agency securities in an attempt to lower longer-term interest rates and contribute to an overall easing of adverse financial conditions. in total, $1.25 trillion in agency securities were purchased between january 2009 and march 2010, when the purchase phase of the program was completed. in addition, while the fed program of agency securities purchases terminated in 2010, the fed reported that through october 30, 2013, it held approximately $1.4 trillion of agency securities. subject to specified investment guidelines, the portfolios of agency securities purchased through the programs established by the u.s. treasury and the fed may be held to maturity and, based on mortgage market conditions, adjustments may be made to these portfolios. this flexibility may adversely affect the pricing and availability of agency securities that we seek to acquire during the remaining term of these portfolios.   there can be no assurance that the u.s. government's intervention in fannie mae and freddie mac will be adequate for the longer-term viability of these gses. these uncertainties lead to questions about the availability of and trading market for, agency securities. accordingly, if these government actions are inadequate and the gses defaulted on their guaranteed obligations, suffered losses or ceased to exist, the value of our agency securities and our business, operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we cannot predict the impact, if any, on our earnings or cash available for distribution to our stockholders of the fhfa's proposed revisions to fannie mae's, freddie mac's and ginnie mae's existing infrastructures to align the standards and practices of the three entities. on february 21, 2012, the fhfa released its strategic plan for enterprise conservatorships, which set forth three goals for the next phase of the fannie mae and freddie mac conservatorships. these three goals are to (i) build a new infrastructure for the secondary mortgage market, (ii) gradually contract fannie mae and freddie mac's presence in the marketplace while simplifying and shrinking their operations, and (iii) maintain foreclosure prevention activities and credit availability for new and refinanced mortgages. on october 4, 2012, the fhfa released its white paper entitled building a new infrastructure for the secondary mortgage market, which proposes a new infrastructure for fannie mae and freddie mac that has two basic goals. the first such goal is to replace the current, outdated infrastructures of fannie mae and freddie mac with a common, more efficient infrastructure that aligns the standards and practices of the two entities, beginning with core functions performed by both entities such as issuance, master servicing, bond administration, collateral management and data integration. the second goal is to establish an operating framework for fannie mae and freddie mac that is consistent with the progress of housing finance reform and encourages and accommodates the increased participation of private capital in assuming credit risk associated with the secondary mortgage market. the fhfa recognizes that there are a number of impediments to their goals which may or may not be surmountable, such as the absence of any significant secondary mortgage market mechanisms beyond fannie mae, freddie mac and ginnie mae, and that their proposals are in the formative stages. as a result, it is unclear if the proposals will be enacted. if such proposals are enacted, it is unclear how closely what is enacted will resemble the proposals from the fhfa white paper or what the effects of the enactment will be in terms of our net asset value, earnings or cash available for distribution to our stockholders. we could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold for fannie mae and freddie mac. we rely on our agency securities as collateral for our financings under our repurchase agreements. any decline in their value or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on our agency securities on acceptable terms or at all, or to maintain our compliance with the terms of any financing transactions. 8 further, the current support provided by the u.s. treasury to fannie mae and freddie mac and any additional support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rates we expect to receive from agency securities, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our agency securities and the cost of financing those assets. a reduction in the supply of agency securities could also negatively affect the pricing of agency securities, by reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of agency securities and our cost of financing that portfolio. separate legislation has been introduced in both houses of the u.s. congress, which would, among other things, wind down fannie mae and freddie mac, and we could be materially adversely affected if these proposed laws were enacted.   on june 25, 2013, a bipartisan group of u.s. senators introduced a draft bill titled, "housing finance reform and taxpayer protection act of 2013," which may serve as a catalyst for congressional discussion on the reform of fannie mae and freddie mac, to the u.s. senate. also, on july 11, 2013, members of the house committee on financial services introduced a draft bill titled, "protecting american taxpayers and homeowners act" to the u.s. house of representatives. both bills call for the winding down of fannie mae and freddie mac and seek to increase the opportunities for private capital to participate in, and consequently bear the risk of loss in connection with, government-guaranteed mbs. while both bills have had support in their respective house of congress, the momentum to reform and possibly eliminate fannie mae and freddie mac has been slowed somewhat by the fact that the gses are now turning considerable profits and have paid back the $188 billion in aggregate financial support they received from the u.s. treasury.   the passage of any new legislation affecting fannie mae and freddie mac may create market uncertainty and reduce the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by the u.s. government through a new or existing successor entity to fannie mae and freddie mac. if fannie mae and freddie mac were reformed or wound down, it is unclear what effect, if any, this would have on the value of the existing fannie mae and freddie mac agency securities. it is also possible that the above-referenced proposed legislation, if made law, could adversely impact the market for securities issued or guaranteed by the u.s. government and the spreads at which they trade. the foregoing could materially adversely affect the pricing, supply, liquidity and value of the agency securities in which we invest and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. we cannot predict the impact of the fed’s third quantitative easing program ("qe3”) on the prices and liquidity of agency securities or other securities in which we invest, although the fed action could increase the prices of our target assets and reduce the spread on our investments. the fed announced on december 18, 2013 that it will keep the target range for the federal funds rate between zero and 0.25% for at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5%, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than 0.5% above the fed’s 2% longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. the fed expects these measures to put downward pressure on long-term interest rates. also at its december 18, 2013 and january 29, 2014 meetings, the fed announced as part of the qe3 that it would trim its monthly u.s. treasury securities and agency securities purchases to $75.0 billion and $65.0 billion, respectively, for january and february 2014, down from $85.0 billion during 2013. while the fed hopes that qe3 will expedite an economic recovery, stabilize prices, reduce unemployment and improve business and household spending, we cannot predict the impact of these programs or any future actions by the fed on the prices and liquidity of agency securities or other securities in which we invest, although the fed action could increase the prices of our target assets and reduce the spread on our investments. certain actions by the fed could cause a flattening of the yield curve, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.   on september 21, 2011, the fed announced “operation twist,” which is a program by which it intended to purchase, by the end of june 2012, $400 billion of u.s. treasury securities with remaining maturities between 6 and 30 years and sell an equal amount of u.s. treasury securities with remaining maturities of three years or less. on june 20, 2012, the fed announced that it would extend “operation twist” through 2012 by purchasing and selling an additional $267 billion of such securities. on december 12, 2012, the fed announced that it would continue purchasing u.s. treasury securities into 2013 initially at a pace of $45.0 billion per month. on december 18, 2013, the fed announced it would reduce its monthly purchases of u.s. treasury securities in 2014 to $40.0 billion and monthly purchases of agency securities to $35.0 billion. the effect of this purchasing program could be a flattening in the yield curve, which could result in increased prepayment rates due to lower long-term interest rates and a narrowing of our net interest margin. consequently, future securities purchase programs by the fed could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. 9 the downgrade of the u.s. government’s or certain european countries’ credit ratings and future downgrades of the u.s. government’s or certain european countries’ credit ratings may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   on august 5, 2011, standard & poor’s corporation downgraded the u.s. government’s credit rating from aaa to aa+ and on august 8, 2011, fannie mae and freddie mac’s credit ratings were downgraded from aaa to aa+.  standard & poor's corporation reaffirmed those ratings in 2012 and in 2013. because fannie mae and freddie mac are in conservatorship of the u.s. government, the u.s. government's credit rating downgrade and fannie mae and freddie mac’s credit rating downgrades will impact the credit risk associated with agency securities and, therefore, may decrease the value of the agency securities in our portfolio.   other actions of the u.s. government, including the u.s. congress, the fed, the u.s. treasury and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing or reforming the financial markets, or market response to those actions, may not achieve the intended effect or benefit our business and may adversely affect our business. in response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to commercial banks, investment banks and other financial institutions, the emergency economic stabilization act (“eesa”), was enacted by the u.s. congress in 2008. there can be no assurance that the eesa or any other u.s. government actions will have a beneficial impact on the financial markets. to the extent the markets do not respond favorably to any such actions by the u.s. government or such actions do not function as intended, our business may not receive the anticipated positive impact from the legislation and such result may have broad adverse market implications.   in july 2010, the u.s. congress enacted the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the “dodd-frank act”), in part to impose significant investment restrictions and capital requirements on banking entities and other organizations that are significant to u.s. financial markets. for instance, the dodd-frank act will impose significant restrictions on the proprietary trading activities of certain banking entities and subject other systemically significant organizations regulated by the fed to increased capital requirements and quantitative limits for engaging in such activities. the dodd-frank act also seeks to reform the asset-backed securitization market (including the agency securities market) by requiring the retention of a portion of the credit risk inherent in the pool of securitized assets and by imposing additional registration and disclosure requirements. certain of the new requirements and restrictions exempt agency securities; other government issued or guaranteed securities, or other securities. nonetheless, the dodd-frank act also imposes significant regulatory restrictions on the origination of residential mortgage loans. while the full impact of the dodd-frank act cannot be assessed until implementing regulations are released, the dodd-frank act’s extensive requirements may have a significant effect on the financial markets and may affect the availability or terms of financing from our lender counterparties and the availability or terms of agency securities, both of which may have an adverse effect on our business. in addition, the u.s. government, the fed, the u.s. treasury and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are continuing to consider taking other actions to address the financial crisis. we cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what affect, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the increasing number of proposed u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations may affect certain mortgage related assets in which we intend to invest and could increase our cost of doing business. legislation has been proposed which, among other provisions, could hinder the ability of a servicer to foreclose promptly on defaulted mortgage loans or would permit limited assignee liability for certain violations in the mortgage loan origination process. for example, the dodd-frank act permits borrowers to assert certain defenses to foreclosure against an assignee for certain violations in the mortgage loan origination process. we cannot predict whether or in what form the u.s. congress, the various state and local legislatures or the various federal, state or local regulatory agencies may enact legislation affecting our business. we will evaluate the potential impact of any initiatives which, if enacted, could affect our practices and results of operations. we are unable to predict whether the u.s. federal, state or local authorities will enact laws, rules or regulations that will require changes in our practices in the future and any such changes could adversely affect our cost of doing business and profitability. mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of and the returns on, the agency securities in which we invest. the u.s. government, through the fed, the federal housing administration (“fha”) and the federal deposit insurance corporation, has implemented a number of federal programs designed to assist homeowners, including the home affordable modification program (“hamp”), which provides homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures, 10 the hope for homeowners program (“h4h program”), which allows certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into fha-insured loans in order to avoid residential mortgage loan foreclosures and the home affordable refinance program (“harp”), which allows borrowers who are current on their mortgage payments to refinance and reduce their monthly mortgage payments at loan to value ratios up to 125% without new mortgage insurance. hamp, the h4h program and other loss mitigation programs may involve among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans (through forbearance and/or forgiveness) and/or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans. especially with non-agency securities, a significant number of loan modifications with respect to a given security, including, but not limited to, those related to principal forgiveness and coupon reduction, could negatively impact the realized yields and cash flows on such security. these loan modification programs, future legislative or regulatory actions, including possible amendments to the bankruptcy laws, which result in the modification of outstanding residential mortgage loans, as well as changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing mortgage loans with fannie mae, freddie mac or ginnie mae, may adversely affect the value of and the returns on, our agency securities. in october 2011, the fhfa announced changes to harp to expand access to refinancing for qualified individuals and families whose homes have lost value, including increasing the harp loan to value ratio above 125%. however, this would only apply to mortgages guaranteed by the gses. there are many challenging issues to this proposal, notably the question as to whether a loan with a loan to value ratio of 125% qualifies as a mortgage or an unsecured consumer loan. the chances of this initiative’s success have created additional uncertainty in the agency securities market, particularly with respect to possible increases in prepayment rates.   on january 4, 2012, the fed issued a white paper outlining additional ideas with regard to refinancings and loan modifications. in an effort to continue to provide meaningful solutions to the housing crisis, effective june 1, 2012, the obama administration expanded the population of homeowners that may be eligible for hamp. it is likely that loan modifications would result in increased prepayments on some agency securities. these loan modification programs, as well as future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the agency securities in which we invest.   continued adverse developments in the global capital markets, including defaults, credit losses and liquidity concerns, as well as mergers, acquisitions or bankruptcies of potential repurchase agreement counterparties, could make it difficult for us to borrow money to acquire agency securities on a leveraged basis, on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our profitability. we rely on the availability of financing to acquire agency securities on a leveraged basis. institutions from which we obtain financing may have invested in or financed assets that declined in value as a result of the downturn in financial markets, particularly in europe and the residential mortgage market, causing these institutions to suffer losses. if these conditions persist, these institutions may be forced to exit the repurchase market, become insolvent or further tighten their lending standards or increase the amount of equity capital or the weighted average margin requirement, or the percentage amount by which the collateral value must exceed the loan amount required to obtain financing. under such circumstances, it could be more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. our profitability may be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain cost-effective financing for our investments. while the overall financing environment has improved, further credit losses or mergers, acquisitions, or bankruptcies of investment banks and commercial banks that have historically acted as repurchase agreement counterparties may occur. this would result in a fewer number of potential repurchase agreement counterparties operating in the market and could potentially impact the pricing and availability of financing for our business. volatile market conditions for mortgages and mortgage related assets as well as the broader financial markets may adversely affect the value of the assets in which we invest. our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the markets for mortgages and mortgage related assets, including mbs, as well as the broader financial markets and the economy generally. beginning in 2007, significant adverse changes in financial market conditions resulted in a deleveraging of the entire global financial system and the forced sale of large quantities of mortgage related and other financial assets. over the past several years, concerns over economic recession, inflation, geopolitical issues, unemployment, the availability and cost of financing, the mortgage market and a declining real estate market contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and markets. in particular, the residential mortgage market in the u.s. experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions, including defaults, credit losses and liquidity concerns. certain commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies announced extensive losses from exposure to the residential mortgage market. these factors impacted investor perception of the risk associated with rmbs, real estate related securities and various other asset classes in which we may invest. as a result, values for rmbs, real estate related securities and 11 various other asset classes in which we may invest experienced volatility. any decline in the value of our investments, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would likely make it difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, or maintain our compliance with terms of any financing arrangements already in place. increased volatility and deterioration in the broader residential mortgage and mbs markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of our investments. continued adverse developments in the residential mortgage market may adversely affect the value of the agency securities in which we invest. during the past few years, the residential mortgage market in the u.s. experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions that adversely affected the performance and market value of the agency securities in which we invest. although the overall residential mortgage market has improved, agency securities that originated in 2006 and 2007 have experienced a higher and earlier than expected rate of delinquencies. additionally, other earlier vintages of agency securities may not perform as expected. as a result, the market for these securities may be adversely affected. conditions within the market over the past several years were driven primarily by: • delinquencies across a broad scope of mortgage loans that include subprime mortgage loans, alt-a mortgage loans; and prime mortgage loans; • declining housing prices and flattening of property values; • resetting adjustable rate mortgages (“arms”) that result in increased mortgage payments; and • constrained ability by borrowers to refinance or sell their properties. while we primarily invest in agency securities, rising levels of delinquencies could negatively affect the value of our agency securities or create market uncertainty about their true value. at the same time, market uncertainty about residential mortgages in general could depress the market for agency securities, making it more difficult for us to sell agency securities we own on favorable terms or at all. changes in the underwriting standards by freddie mac or fannie mae could have an adverse impact on the agency securities in which we may invest or make it more difficult to acquire attractive non-agency securities. in april 2010, freddie mac and fannie mae announced tighter underwriting guidelines for arms and hybrid interest-only arms in particular. specifically, freddie mac announced that it would no longer purchase interest-only mortgages and fannie mae changed its eligibility criteria for purchasing and securitizing arms to protect consumers from potentially dramatic payment increases. our targeted assets include adjustable-rate mortgages and hybrid arms. tighter underwriting standards by freddie mac or fannie mae could reduce the supply of arms, resulting in a reduction in the availability of the asset class.  we may not be able to operate our business or implement our operating policies and strategies successfully. the results of our operations depend on many factors, including, without limitation, the availability of opportunities for the acquisition of attractively priced agency securities, the level and volatility of interest rates, readily accessible funding  in the financial markets and our ability to cost-effectively hedge risks as well as overall economic conditions. we may not be able to maintain any agreements with our lenders on favorable terms or at all. furthermore, we may not be able to operate our business successfully or implement our operating policies and strategies as described in this annual report on form 10-k, which could result in the loss of some or all of your investment. market conditions may upset the historical relationship between interest rate changes and prepayment trends, which would make it more difficult for us to analyze our portfolio. our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to analyze the relationship of changing interest rates and prepayments of the mortgages that underlie our agency securities. changes in interest rates and prepayments affect the market price of the agency securities that we purchase and any agency securities that we hold at a given time. as part of our overall portfolio risk management, we analyze interest rate changes and prepayment trends separately and collectively to assess their effects on our portfolio. in conducting our analysis, we depend on industry-accepted assumptions with respect to the relationship between interest rates and prepayments under normal market conditions. if the dislocation in the residential mortgage market or other developments change the way that prepayment trends have historically responded to interest rate changes, our ability to assess the market value of our portfolio would be significantly affected and could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.   12 competition may prevent us from acquiring agency securities at favorable yields and that would harm our results of operations. our net income largely depends on our ability to acquire agency securities at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. in acquiring agency securities, we compete with other reits, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders and other entities that purchase agency securities, many of which have greater financial resources than we do. additionally, many of our competitors are not subject to reit tax compliance or required to maintain an exemption from the  act. as a result, we may not be able to acquire sufficient agency securities at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs, which would harm our results of operations. we may not be able to acquire investments at favorable prices. we may not be able to acquire agency securities at favorable prices. as a result, we may not be able to acquire enough agency securities in order to remain fully invested, or we may have to pay more for agency securities than we would expect. in either case, the return that we earn on our stockholders’ equity may be reduced. changes in interest rates may adversely affect the results of our operations and our financial position. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental, monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations, all of which are beyond our control. our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to analyze the relationship changing interest rates may have on our results of operations and financial position in general and the impact such rate changes may have on critical elements underlying agency securities and other investments’ values and borrowings in particular, as follows: • changes in interest rates may inversely affect the fair value of our assets, which are primarily agency securities; when interest rates rise, the value of fixed rate agency securities generally declines, when interest rates fall, the value of fixed rate agency securities generally increase; • changes in interest rates may inversely affect levels of prepayments on mortgages. typically, as interest rates rise, prepayments on the underlying mortgages tend to slow; conversely, as interest rates fall, prepayments on the underlying mortgages tend to accelerate. the effect that rising or falling interest rates on these prepayments affects the price of agency securities and the effect can be particularly pronounced with fixed rate agency securities; and • changes in interest rates may create mismatches between our assets, primarily agency securities and our borrowings used to fund our purchases of those assets. the risk of these mismatches may be pronounced in that, should rates increase, interest rate caps on our hybrid adjustable rate and adjustable rate mbs would limit the income stream on these investments while our borrowings would not be subject to similar restrictions. interest rate fluctuations will also cause variations in the yield curve, which may reduce our net income. the relationship between short-term and longer-term interest rates is often referred to as the “yield curve.” if short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to longer-term interest rates (a flattening of the yield curve), our borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on our assets. because our assets may bear interest based on longer-term rates than our borrowings, a flattening of the yield curve would tend to decrease our net income and the market value of our agency security assets. additionally, to the extent cash flows from investments that return scheduled and unscheduled principal are reinvested in agency securities, the spread between the yields of the new investments and available borrowing rates may decline, which would likely decrease our net income. it is also possible that short-term interest rates may exceed longer-term interest rates (a yield curve inversion), in which event our borrowing costs may exceed our interest income and we could incur significant operating losses. this risk and the variables created by changing interest rates discussed above are integral to our business and our investment strategies. we will seek to mitigate these risks to the degree achievable through the active formulation and execution of our hedging strategies. because we invest in fixed rate securities, an increase in interest rates may adversely affect our book value.   increases in interest rates may negatively affect the market value of our agency securities. any fixed rate securities we invest in generally will be more negatively affected by these increases than adjustable rate securities. in accordance with accounting rules, we are required to reduce our stockholders’ equity, or book value, by the amount of any decrease in the market value of our mortgage related assets. we are required to evaluate our securities on a quarterly basis to determine their fair value by using third-party pricing services or third-party bid price indications provided by dealers who make markets in these securities. if the fair value of a security is not available from a third-party price service or dealer, we would estimate the fair value of the security using a variety of methods including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow analysis, matrix pricing, option-adjusted spread models and fundamental analysis. aggregate characteristics taken into consideration include, but are not limited to, type of collateral, index, margin, periodic cap, lifetime cap, underwriting standards, age and delinquency experience. however, the fair value reflects 13 estimates and may not be indicative of the amounts we would receive in a current market exchange. if we are required by gaap to reduce the value of one or more agency securities on our balance sheet then our stockholders’ equity would be correspondingly reduced. reductions in stockholders’ equity decrease the amounts we may borrow to purchase additional securities, which could restrict our ability to increase our net income. interest rate mismatches between our agency securities and our borrowings used to fund our purchases of these securities may reduce our income during periods of changing interest rates. we fund our fixed rate agency securities with short-term borrowings. as a result, an increase in short-term interest rates would likely cause an increase in our borrowing costs, resulting in a decrease in net income or a net loss. in addition, we fund most of our investments in adjustable rate agency securities with borrowings that have interest rates that adjust more frequently than the interest rate indices and repricing terms of our agency securities. accordingly, if short-term interest rates increase, our borrowing costs may increase faster than the interest rates on our adjustable rate securities adjust. as a result, in a period of rising interest rates, we could experience a decrease in net income or a net loss.   our investment strategy focuses in part on the acquisition of adjustable rate agency securities. this means that their interest rates may vary over time based upon changes in an identified short-term interest rate index. in most cases, the interest rate indices and repricing terms of the agency securities that we acquire and our borrowings will not be identical, thereby potentially creating an interest rate mismatch between our investments and our borrowings. while the historical spread between relevant short-term interest rate indices has been relatively stable, there have been periods when the spread between these indices was volatile. during periods of changing interest rates, these interest rate index mismatches could reduce our net income or produce a net loss and adversely affect our dividends and the market price of our stock. changes in prepayment rates may adversely affect our profitability.   our investment portfolio consists of securities backed by pools of mortgage loans. we receive payments on our securities, generally, from the payments that are made on these underlying mortgage loans. when borrowers prepay their mortgage loans at rates that are faster or slower than expected, it results in prepayments that are faster or slower than expected on our assets. these faster or slower than expected payments may adversely affect our profitability.   we may purchase securities or loans that have a higher interest rate than the then prevailing market interest rate. in exchange for this higher interest rate, we may pay a premium to par value to acquire the security or loan. in accordance with gaap, we amortize this premium over the expected term of the security or loan based on our prepayment assumptions. if a security or loan is prepaid in whole or in part at a faster than expected rate, however, we must expense all or a part of the remaining unamortized portion of the premium that was paid at the time of the purchase, which will adversely affect our profitability.   we also may purchase securities or loans that have a lower interest rate than the then prevailing market interest rate. in exchange for this lower interest rate, we may pay a discount to par value to acquire the security or loan. we accrete this discount over the expected term of the security or loan based on our prepayment assumptions. if a security or loan is prepaid at a slower than expected rate, however, we must accrete the remaining portion of the discount at a slower than expected rate. this will extend the expected life of investment portfolio and result in a lower than expected yield on securities and loans purchased at a discount to par.   prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. prepayments can also occur when borrowers sell the property and use the sale proceeds to prepay the mortgage as part of a physical relocation or when borrowers default on their mortgages and the mortgages are prepaid from the proceeds of a foreclosure sale of the property. fannie mae and freddie mac will generally, among other conditions, purchase mortgages that are 120 days or more delinquent from mbs trusts when the cost of guaranteed payments to security holders, including advances of interest at the security coupon rate, exceeds the cost of holding the nonperforming loans in their portfolios. consequently, prepayment rates also may be affected by conditions in the housing and financial markets, which may result in increased delinquencies on mortgage loans, the government-sponsored entities, cost of capital, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed and adjustable rate loans, which could lead to an acceleration of the payment of the related principal. additionally, changes in the gses' decisions as to when to repurchase delinquent loans can materially impact prepayment rates. in addition, the introduction of relatively recent government programs, such as the u.s. treasury’s hamp program, increases the availability of mortgage credit to a large number of homeowners in the united states, which we expect impacts the prepayment rates for the entire mortgage securities market, but primarily for fannie mae and freddie mac agency securities. these new programs, along with any new additional programs or changes to existing programs, can cause uncertainty around the 14 magnitude of changes in prepayment speeds. to the extent that actual prepayment speeds differ from our expectations, it could adversely affect our operating results. interest rate caps on our adjustable rate agency securities may reduce our income or cause us to suffer a loss during periods of rising interest rates. the mortgage loans underlying our adjustable rate securities typically will be subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. additionally, we may invest in arms, with an initial rate that will provide us with a lower than market interest rate initially, which may accordingly have lower interest rate caps than arms without such initial rates. periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during a given period. lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase through maturity of a mortgage loan. if these interest rate caps apply to the mortgage loans underlying our adjustable rate securities, the interest distributions made on the related securities will be similarly impacted. our borrowings may not be subject to similar interest rate caps. accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates paid on our borrowings could increase without limitation while caps would limit the interest distributions on our adjustable rate agency securities. further, some of the mortgage loans underlying our adjustable rate agency securities may be subject to periodic payment caps that result in a portion of the interest on those loans being deferred and added to the principal outstanding. as a result, we could receive less interest distributions on adjustable rate agency securities than we need to pay interest on our related borrowings. these, factors could lower our net interest income, cause us to suffer a net loss or cause us to incur additional borrowings to fund interest payments during periods of rising interest rates or sell our investments at a loss.   mitigating against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings and our interest rate risk mitigation transactions may fail to protect us from the losses that they were designed to offset. subject to complying with reit tax requirements, we employ techniques that limit the adverse effects of rising interest rates on a portion of our short-term repurchase agreements and on a portion of the value of our assets. in general, our interest rate mitigation strategy depends on our view of our entire portfolio, consisting of assets, liabilities and derivative instruments, in light of prevailing market conditions. we could misjudge the condition of our portfolio or the market. our interest rate risk mitigation activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal repayments, the type of securities held and other changing market conditions. our actual interest rate risk mitigation decisions will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time and may differ from our currently anticipated strategy. these techniques may include entering into interest rate swap contracts, purchasing or selling futures contracts, or interest rate cap or floor agreements, swaptions, purchasing put and call options on securities or securities underlying futures contracts, or entering into forward rate agreements.   because a mortgage borrower typically has no restrictions on when a loan may be paid off, either partially or in full, there are no perfect interest rate risk mitigation strategies and interest rate mitigation may fail to protect us from loss. alternatively, we may fail to properly assess a risk to our portfolio or may fail to recognize a risk entirely leaving us exposed to losses without the benefit of any offsetting interest rate mitigation activities. the derivative instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. the nature and timing of interest rate risk mitigation transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. in addition, interest rate risk mitigation activities could result in losses if the event against which we mitigate does not occur. we may not be able to execute desired interest risk mitigation transactions at favorable prices. we will continue to execute derivative instrument transactions to manage many, but not all, of the risks inherent in our portfolio. this strategy will potentially help us reduce our exposure to significant changes in interest rates but entails significant costs and other risks. these derivative instruments may not be attractively priced in the marketplace and may not be available to us given our financial condition in the future or as a result of other factors. additionally, we may not successfully implement our business strategy, we may expose ourselves to additional risks and we could suffer significant losses. our use of derivative instruments may expose us to counterparty and termination risks. we enter into transactions to hedge interest rate risks associated with our business with counterparties that have a high-quality credit rating and with futures exchanges. if counterparties, or the exchange, cannot perform under the terms of our futures contracts, for example, we would not receive payments due under that agreement and may lose any unrealized gain associated with the futures contract and the mitigated liability would cease to be mitigated by the futures contract. we may also be at risk for any collateral we have pledged to secure our obligations under the futures contract if the counterparty became insolvent or filed for bankruptcy. similarly, if a counterparty to a cap agreement fails to perform under the terms of the agreement, in addition to not receiving payments due under that agreement that would offset our interest expense, we would also incur a loss for all remaining unamortized premium paid for that agreement. our derivative instrument agreements generally require our counterparties 15 to post collateral in certain events, generally related to their credit condition, to provide us some protection against their potential failure to perform. we, in turn, are subject to similar requirements. in addition, some of our derivative instrument agreements contain various termination events related to, among other items, our reit status, equity levels and performance under related agreements which could cause the agreement to terminate at prevailing market levels, resulting in either a payment by us to the counterparty or by the counterparty to us. a termination event could also require us to realize taxable income or loss. we have not elected to use cash flow hedge accounting.   we record derivative and hedge transactions in accordance with gaap, specifically according to the accounting standards codification topic no. 815 “derivatives and hedging.” under these standards, we have not elected to use cash flow hedge accounting for a number of reasons, including if we use instruments that do not meet the definition of a derivative (such as short sales), we fail to satisfy hedge documentation and hedge effectiveness assessment requirements or our instruments are not highly effective. since we have not elected to use cash flow hedge accounting, earnings reported in accordance with gaap will fluctuate even in situations where our derivatives are operating as intended. as a result of this mark-to-market accounting treatment, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate far more than if we were to designate our derivative activities as cash flow hedges. comparisons with companies that use cash flow hedge accounting for all or part of their derivative activities may not be meaningful. the adoption of derivatives legislation by congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. the dodd−frank act regulates derivative transactions, which include certain instruments used in our risk management activities. under the dodd−frank act, most swaps will be required to be cleared through a registered clearing facility and traded on a designated exchange or swap execution facility. there are some exceptions to these requirements for entities that use swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk. however, we do not currently anticipate qualifying for an exception. among the other provisions of the dodd−frank act that may affect derivative transactions are those relating to establishment of capital and margin requirements for certain derivative participants; establishment of business conduct standards, recordkeeping and reporting requirements; and imposition of position limits. although the dodd−frank act includes significant new provisions regarding the regulation of derivatives, the impact of those requirements will not be known definitively until regulations have been adopted by the sec and the u.s. commodity futures trading commission (the “cftc”). the new legislation and any new regulations could increase the operational and transactional cost of derivatives contracts and affect the number and/or creditworthiness of available hedge counterparties to us. we have established an account with a futures commission merchant for this purpose. to date, we have not entered into any cleared interest rate swap contracts. risks related to debt financing there is no assurance that our current financing arrangements will remain in place. avm, l.p. (“avm”), is a securities broker dealer with which we contract with for administering clearing and settlement services for our securities and derivative transactions, as well as assistance with financing transaction services such as repurchase financing. avm also assists us with the management of margin arrangements between us and our lenders for each of our repurchase agreements and they are beneficial in addressing the potential scarcity of repurchase funding. nonetheless, we depend on borrowings to fund our acquisitions of agency securities and reach our target leverage ratio. accordingly, our ability to achieve our investment and leverage objectives depends on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms. we have entered into mra’s establishing the general terms and conditions of borrowings, if any, made by lenders. there can be no assurance that these agreements will remain in place and, even if in place, the amount and definitive terms under which we would be able to borrow. continued adverse developments in the residential and commercial mortgage markets could make it more difficult for us to borrow money to finance our acquisition of agency securities. institutions from which we seek to obtain financing may also originate and hold residential and commercial mortgage loans and may have suffered financial difficulties as a result of the market conditions described above. further, even lenders that do not originate and hold mortgage loans may have suffered losses related to their lending and other financial relationships with the institutions that do so as part of their businesses. as a result, institutions that originate and hold loans and other lenders that have been indirectly affected by losses in the mortgage market may become insolvent or tighten their lending standards which could result in the following: • our lenders may not be able to obtain financing to fund our borrowings; • our lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations; • we may not be able to fund acquisitions of sufficient agency securities to reach our target leverage ratio; and • we may become dependent on one or a few lenders for all of our financing. 16 we may incur increased borrowing costs related to repurchase agreements which could harm our results of operations. our borrowing costs under repurchase agreements that we have arranged generally are adjustable and relate to short-term interest rates, such as the fed funds and london interbank offered rate. the price of these borrowings may vary depending upon a number of factors, including, without limitation: • the movement of interest rates; • the availability of financing in the market, including the financial stability of lenders; and • the value and liquidity of our agency securities. as of december 31, 2013, the weighted average margin requirement under all our repurchase agreements was approximately 5.0% (weighted by borrowing amount).   most of our borrowings are collateralized borrowings in the form of repurchase agreements. if the interest rates on these repurchase agreements increase, our results of operations may be harmed and we may have losses. we leverage our portfolio investments in agency securities, which may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders.   we leverage our portfolio investments in agency securities through borrowings under repurchase agreements. leverage can enhance our potential returns but can also exacerbate losses. the percentage of leverage will vary depending on our investment strategy, ability to obtain these financing facilities and the lender’s estimate of the stability of the portfolio investments’ cash flow. our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced if market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired, which could adversely affect the price of our stock. in addition, our debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distributions to stockholders. we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations. to the extent that we cannot meet our debt service obligations, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to sale to satisfy our debt obligations.   our leverage strategy increases the risks of our operations, which could reduce our net income and the amount available for distributions or cause us to suffer a loss. we generally seek to borrow (on a recourse basis) between six and ten times the amount of our stockholders’ equity, although we are not limited to those ranges. we incur this leverage by borrowing against a substantial portion of the market value of our agency securities. the amount of leverage, however, is not expressly limited and will depend on our and our lenders’ estimate of the stability of our portfolio’s cash flow and our ability to service and repay additional debt. we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent we cannot, we may be forced to liquidate our assets at disadvantageous prices and you could lose some or all of your investment.   this leverage, which is fundamental to our investment strategy, also creates significant risks. for example: • our borrowings are secured by our agency securities, generally under repurchase agreements. a decline in the market value of the agency securities used to secure these debt obligations could limit our ability to borrow or result in lenders requiring us to pledge additional collateral to secure our borrowings. in that situation, we could be required to sell agency securities under adverse market conditions. if these sales are made at prices lower than the carrying value of the agency securities, we would experience losses; • certain lenders may require us to remain in compliance with all provisions of other material contracts, including other financing agreements. as a result, a default under one financing agreement could cause us to be in default under other financing agreements. if that occurs, our access to capital would be significantly impeded, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate our business; • to the extent we are compelled to liquidate qualified reit assets to repay debts, our compliance with the reit rules regarding our assets and our sources of income could be negatively affected, which would jeopardize our qualification as a reit. losing our reit status would cause us to lose tax advantages applicable to reits and would decrease our overall profitability and distributions to our stockholders; and • certain of our mra’s contain a restriction that prohibits our leverage from exceeding twelve times our stockholders’ equity. 17 if we experience losses as a result of our leverage policy, such losses would reduce the amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. because the assets that we expect to acquire may experience periods of illiquidity, we may be prevented from selling our agency securities at opportune times and prices. we bear the risk of being unable to dispose of our agency securities at advantageous times and prices or in a timely manner because agency securities may experience periods of illiquidity. the lack of liquidity may result from the absence of a willing buyer or an established market for these assets, as well as legal or contractual restrictions on resale. as a result, the illiquidity of agency securities may harm our results of operations and could cause us to suffer a loss and reduce our distributions.   our use of repurchase agreements to borrow funds may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or a lender file for bankruptcy.   our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay in the event that we file for bankruptcy. furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that a lender files for bankruptcy. thus, our use of repurchase agreements will expose our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either a lender or us.   risks related to our corporate structure maintenance of our exclusion from the 1940 act will impose limits on our business. we conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the 1940 act. if we were to fall within the definition of investment company, we would be unable to conduct our business as described in this annual report on form 10-k. section 3(a)(1)(a) of the 1940 act defines an investment company as any issuer that is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. section 3(a)(1)(c) of the 1940 act also defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of gses and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. excluded from the term “investment securities,” among other things, in section 3(a)(1)(c) of the 1940 act, as defined above, are gses and securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exclusion from the definition of investment company set forth in section 3(c)(1) or section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 act.   we rely on the exclusion from the definition of “investment company” provided by section 3(c)(5)(c) of the 1940 act. to qualify for the exclusion, we make investments so that at least 55% of the assets we own consist of “qualifying assets” and so that at least 80% of the assets we own consist of qualifying assets and other real estate related assets. we generally expect that our investments in our target assets will be treated as either qualifying assets or real estate related assets under section 3(c)(5)(c) of the 1940 act in a manner consistent with sec staff no-action letters. qualifying assets for this purpose include mortgage loans and other assets, such as whole pool agency securities that are considered the functional equivalent of mortgage loans for purposes of the 1940 act. the sec staff has not issued guidance with respect to whole pool non-agency securities. accordingly, based on our own judgment and analysis of the sec’s pronouncements with respect to agency whole pool certificates, we may also treat non-agency securities issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgage loans in which we hold all of the certificates issued by the pool as qualifying assets. we invest at least 55% of our assets in whole pool agency and non-agency securities that constitute qualifying assets in accordance with sec staff guidance and at least 80% of our assets in qualifying assets plus other real estate related assets. other real estate related assets would consist primarily of agency and non-agency securities that are not whole pools, such as collateralized mortgage obligations ("cmos") and commercial mortgage backed securities. as a result of the foregoing restrictions, we are limited in our ability to make or dispose of certain investments. to the extent that the sec staff publishes new or different guidance with respect to these matters, we may be required to adjust our strategy accordingly. these restrictions could also result in our holding assets we might wish to sell or selling assets we might wish to hold. although we monitor our portfolio for compliance with the section 3(c)(5)(c) exclusion periodically and prior to each acquisition and disposition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain this exclusion. to the extent that we elect in the future to conduct our operations through majority-owned subsidiaries, such business will be conducted in such a manner as to ensure that we do not meet the definition of investment company under either section 3(a)(1)(a) or section 3(a)(1)(c) of the 1940 act, because less than 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis would consist of investment securities. we intend to monitor our portfolio periodically to insure compliance with the 40% test. in such case, we would be a holding company which conducts business exclusively through majority-owned subsidiaries and we would be engaged in the non-investment company business of our subsidiaries. 18 failure to maintain an exemption from being regulated as a commodity pool operator could subject us to additional regulation and compliance requirements and may result in fines and other penalties which could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. recently adopted rules under the dodd-frank act establish a comprehensive new regulatory framework for derivative contracts commonly referred to as swaps. under these recently adopted rules, any investment fund that trades in swaps may be considered a “commodity pool,” which would cause its directors to be regulated as “commodity pool operators” ("cpos"). under the new rules, which became effective on october 12, 2012 for those who became cpos solely because of their use of swaps, cpos must register with the national futures association (the "nfa"), which requires compliance with nfa's rules, and are subject to regulation by the cftc including with respect to disclosure, reporting, recordkeeping and business conduct. our hedging strategies are designed to reduce the impact on our earnings caused by the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on our target assets and liabilities. subject to complying with reit requirements, we use hedging techniques to limit the risk of adverse changes in interest rates on the value of our target assets as well as the differences between the interest rate adjustments on our target assets and borrowings. these techniques primarily consist of entering into interest rate swap contracts and purchasing or selling futures contracts and may also include entering into interest rate cap or floor agreements, purchasing put and call options on securities or securities underlying futures contracts, or entering into forward rate agreements. although we are not legally limited to our use of hedging, we limit our use of derivative instruments to only those techniques described above and enter into derivative transactions only with counterparties that we believe have a strong credit rating to help limit the risk of counterparty default or insolvency. these transactions are not entered into for speculative purposes. we do not use these instruments for the purpose of trading in commodity interests, and we do not consider our company or its operations to be a commodity pool as to which cpo regulation or compliance is required. we, along with numerous other mortgage reits, submitted a no-action letter request to the cftc seeking exemptive relief for our directors from cpo registration under these new rules.  on december 7, 2012, the cftc staff issued a no-action letter (cftc staff letter 12-44) to provide exemptive relief to mortgage reits that perfect the use of the relief set forth in the no-action letter.  on december 11, 2012, we submitted our claim to perfect the use of cftc staff letter 12-44. therefore, at this time, our directors do not intend to register as cpos with the nfa.  to comply with cftc staff letter 12-44, we are restricted to operating within certain parameters discussed in the no-action letter.  for example, the exemptive relief limits our ability to enter into interest rate hedging transactions if the amount of income we receive from such hedges will exceed five percent of our gross income or the initial margin and premiums for such hedges will exceed five percent of the fair market value of our total target assets. the cftc has substantial enforcement power with respect to violations of the laws over which it has jurisdiction, including their anti-fraud and anti-manipulation provisions. among other things, the cftc may suspend or revoke the registration of a person who fails to comply, prohibit such a person from trading or doing business with registered entities, impose civil money penalties, require restitution and seek fines or imprisonment for criminal violations. additionally, a private right of action exists against those who violate the laws over which the cftc has jurisdiction or who willfully aid, abet, counsel, induce or procure a violation of those laws. in the event we fail to maintain exemptive relief from the cftc on this matter and our directors fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of these new rules, we may be subject to significant fines, penalties and other civil or governmental actions or proceedings, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are highly dependent on information and communications systems. system failures, security breaches or cyber-attacks of networks or systems could significantly disrupt our business and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to distributions dividends. our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems that allow us to monitor, value, buy, sell, finance and hedge our investments. these systems are primarily operated by third-parties and, as a result, we have limited ability to ensure their continued operation. in the event of systems failure or interruption, we will have limited ability to affect the timing and success of systems restoration. any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including agency rmbs trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. we rely on sophisticated information technology systems, networks and infrastructure in managing our day-to-day operations. despite cyber-security measures already in place, our information technology systems, networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to deliberate attacks or unintentional events that could interrupt or interfere with their functionality or the 19 confidentiality of our information. our inability to effectively utilize our information technology systems, networks and infrastructure, and protect our information could adversely affect our business. loss of the 1940 act exclusion would adversely affect us, the market price of shares of our stock and our ability to distribute dividends. as described above, we conduct our operations so as not to become required to register as an investment company under the 1940 act based on current laws, regulations and guidance. although we monitor our portfolio, we may not be able to maintain exclusion under the 1940 act. if we were to fail to qualify for this exclusion in the future, we could be required to restructure our activities or the activities of our subsidiaries, if any, including effecting sales of assets in a manner that, or at a time when we would not otherwise choose, which could negatively affect the value of our stock, the sustainability of our business model and our ability to make distributions. the sale could occur during adverse market conditions and we could be forced to accept a price below that which we believe is appropriate. on august 31, 2011, the sec issued a concept release requesting comments to a number of matters relating to the section 3(c)(5)(c) exclusion from the 1940 act, including the nature of assets that qualify for purposes of the exclusion and whether mortgage related reit’s should be regulated as investment companies. there can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the 1940 act status of reit’s, including guidance and interpretations from the sec and its staff regarding the section 3(c)(5)(c) exclusion, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations or business. as a result of this release, the sec or its staff may issue new interpretations of the section 3(c)(5)(c) exclusion causing us to change the way we conduct our business, including changes that may adversely affect our ability to achieve our investment objective.  we may be required at times to adopt less efficient methods of financing certain of our mortgage related investments and we may be precluded from acquiring certain types of higher yielding securities. the net effect of these factors would be to lower our net interest income. if we fail to qualify for an exclusion from registration as an investment company or an exclusion from the definition of an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced. our business will be materially and adversely affected if we fail to qualify for an exclusion from regulation under the 1940 act. we have not established a minimum dividend payment level and there are no guarentees of our ability to pay dividends in the future. we expect to continue to make regular cash distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed. this, along with other factors, should enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a reit under the code. however, we have not established a minimum dividend payment level and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this report. future distributions are made at the discretion of our board and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our reit status and such other factors as our board may deem relevant from time to time. there are no guarantees of our ability to pay dividends in the future. in addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. although we have no intention to do so, we may use proceeds from equity and debt offerings and other financings to fund distributions, which will decrease the amount of capital available for purchasing our target assets. we presently have no intention of using the proceeds of any offering of our equity or debt or other financings to fund distributions to stockholders. however, there are no restrictions in our charter or in any agreement to which we are a party that prohibits us from doing so. in the event that we elect to fund any distribution to our stockholders from sources other than our earnings, the amount of capital available to us to purchase our target assets would decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our overall financial results and performance.   we are subject to financial reporting and other requirements for which our accounting, internal audit and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared.   we are subject to reporting and other obligations under the securities act and the exchange act, including the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. these reporting and other obligations, may place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit and accounting resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. we may need to upgrade our systems or create new systems; implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; expand or outsource our internal audit function; and hire additional accounting, internal audit and finance staff. if we are unable to accomplish these objectives in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with the financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. any failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price.   20  future issuances or sales of stocks could cause our share price to decline.   sales of substantial numbers of our stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. in addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through a sale of additional equity securities.   other issuances of our stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. in addition, future issuances of our stock may be dilutive to existing stockholders.   provisions of maryland law and other provisions of our organizational documents may limit the ability of a third-party to acquire control of the company. certain provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of the company that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interests. additionally, our charter and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control of the company. if we have a class of equity securities registered under the securities exchange act and meet certain other requirements, title 3, subtitle 8 of the mgcl permits us without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to elect to be subject to statutory provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of the company that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interest. pursuant to title 3, subtitle 8 of the mgcl, once we meet the applicable requirements, our charter provides that our board will have the exclusive power to fill vacancies on our board. as a result, unless all of the directorships are vacant, our stockholders will not be able to fill vacancies with nominees of their own choosing. we may elect to opt in to additional provisions of title 3, subtitle 8 of the mgcl without stockholder approval at any time that we have a class of equity securities registered under the securities exchange act and satisfy certain other requirements. risks related to our management and conflicts of interest we depend on arrm and particularly key personnel including mr. ulm and mr. zimmer. the loss of those key personnel could severely and detrimentally affect our operations. as an externally managed company, we depend on the diligence, experience and skill of arrm for the selection, acquisition, structuring, hedging and monitoring of our mbs and associated borrowings. we depend on the efforts and expertise of our operating officers to manage our day-to-day operations and strategic business direction. if any of our key personnel were to leave the company, locating individuals with specialized industry knowledge and skills similar to that of our key personnel may not be possible or could take months. because we have no employees, the loss of mr. ulm and mr. zimmer could harm our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. messrs. ulm and zimmer have a long-term relationship with avm and we have a contract with avm to administer clearing and settlement services for our securities and derivative transactions.  we have also entered into a second contract with avm to assist us with financing transaction services such as repurchase financings and managing the margin arrangement between us and our lenders for each of our repurchase agreements. we rely on avm for these aspects of our business so our executive officers can focus on our daily operations and strategic direction. further, as our business expands, we will be increasingly dependent on avm to provide us with timely, effective services. in the future, as we expand our staff, we may absorb internally some or all of the services provided by avm.  until we elect to move those services in-house, we will remain dependent on avm or other third-parties that provide similar services. if we are unable to maintain a relationship with avm or are unable to establish a successful relationship with other third-parties providing similar services at comparable pricing, we may have to reduce or delay our operations and/or increase our expenditures and undertake the repurchase agreement and trading and administrative activities on our own, which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. however, we believe that the breadth and scope of arrm’s experience will enable them to fill any needs created by discontinuing a relationship with avm.   there are conflicts of interest in our relationship with arrm and its affiliates, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. we are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with javelin, arrm and their affiliates. each of our executive officers and certain of our non-independent directors is also an employee or affiliated with javelin and arrm and they will not be exclusively dedicated to our business. each of mr. ulm and mr. zimmer is a co-managing member of arrm and stockholder of javelin. 21 in addition, daniel c. staton and marc h. bell, two of our directors, are joint owners of sbbc, which, in consideration for services to be provided to arrm under a sub-management agreement is entitled to receive a percentage of the net management fee earned by arrm from us and javelin. as a result, the management agreement with arrm may create a conflict of interest and its terms, including fees payable to arrm, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third-party. in addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the management agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with arrm. arrm maintains a contractual and fiduciary relationship with us. the management agreement with arrm does not prevent arrm and its affiliates from engaging in additional management or investment opportunities some of which will compete with us. arrm and its affiliates may engage in additional management or investment opportunities that have overlapping objectives with ours and may thus face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities to these other investments. such allocation is at the discretion of arrm and there is no guarantee that this allocation would be made in the best interest of our stockholders. we are not entitled to receive preferential treatment as compared with the treatment given by arrm or its affiliates to any investment company, fund or advisory account other than any fund or advisory account which contains only funds invested by arrm (and not of any of its clients or customers) or its officers and directors. additionally, the ability of arrm and its respective officers and employees to engage in other business activities, including their activities related to javelin, may reduce the time spent managing our activities. we compete with current and future investment entities affiliated with arrm. there are conflicts of interest in allocating investment opportunities among us and other funds, investment vehicles and ventures managed by arrm. there is a significant overlap in the assets and investment strategies of us and javelin. although arrm may dedicate certain trading and investment personnel to serve us only, in most cases the same trading and investment personnel may provide services to both entities. arrm and its affiliates may in the future form additional funds or sponsor additional investment vehicles and ventures that have overlapping objectives with us and therefore may compete with us for investment opportunities and arrm resources. arrm has an allocation policy that addresses the manner in which investment opportunities are allocated among the various entities and strategies for which they provide investment management services. however, we cannot assure you that arrm will always allocate every investment opportunity in a manner that is advantageous for us; indeed, we may expect that the allocation of investment opportunities will at times result in our receiving only a portion of, or none of, certain investment opportunities. resolution of potential conflicts of interest in allocation of investment opportunities. in allocating investment opportunities among us and any other funds or accounts managed by them, arrm's personnel are guided by the principles that they will treat all entities fairly and equitably, they will not arbitrarily distinguish among entities and they will not favor one entity over another. in allocating a specific investment opportunity among us and javelin, arrm will make a determination, exercising their judgment in good faith, as to whether the opportunity is appropriate for each entity. factors in making such a determination may include an evaluation of each entity's liquidity, overall investment strategy and objectives, the composition of the existing portfolio, the size or amount of the available opportunity, the characteristics of the securities involved, the liquidity of the markets in which the securities trade, the risks involved, and other factors relating to the entity and the investment opportunity. arrm is not required to provide every opportunity to each entity. if arrm determines that an investment opportunity is appropriate for both us and javelin, then arrm will allocate that opportunity in a manner that they determine, exercising their judgment in good faith, to be fair and equitable, taking into consideration all allocations among us and javelin taken as a whole. arrm has broad discretion in making that determination, and in amending that determination over time. in the future, arrm may adopt additional conflicts on interest resolution policies and procedures designed to support the equitable allocation and to prevent the preferential allocation of investment opportunities among entities with overlapping investment objectives. if arrm ceases to be our investment manager, financial institutions providing any financing arrangements to us may not provide future financing to us. financial institutions that finance our investments may require that arrm continue to act in such capacity. if arrm ceases to be our manager, it may constitute an event of default and the financial institution providing the arrangement may have acceleration rights with respect to outstanding borrowings and termination rights with respect to our ability to finance our future 22 investments with that institution. if we are unable to obtain financing for our accelerated borrowings and for our future investments under such circumstances, it is likely that we would be materially and adversely affected. arrm’s failure to make investments on favorable terms that satisfy our investment strategy and otherwise generate attractive risk adjusted returns initially and consistently from time to time in the future would materially and adversely affect us. our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on arrm’s personnel and their ability to make investments on favorable terms that satisfy our investment strategy and otherwise generate attractive risk adjusted returns initially and consistently from time to time in the future. accomplishing this result is also a function of arrm’s ability to execute our financing strategy on favorable terms. the manner of determining the management fee may not provide sufficient incentive to arrm to maximize risk adjusted returns on our investment portfolio since it is based on our gross equity raised and not on our performance. arrm is entitled to receive a monthly management fee that is based on the total of all gross equity raised (see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements), as measured as of the date of determination (i.e., each month), regardless of our performance. accordingly, the possibility exists that significant management fees could be payable to arrm for a given month despite the fact that we could experience a net loss during that month. arrm’s entitlement to such significant nonperformance-based compensation may not provide sufficient incentive to arrm to devote its time and effort to source and maximize risk adjusted returns on our investment portfolio, which could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. further, the management fee structure gives arrm the incentive to maximize gross equity raised by the issuance of new equity securities or the retention of existing equity, regardless of the effect of these actions on existing stockholders. in other words, the management fee structure will reward arrm primarily based on the size of our equity and not on our financial returns to stockholders. the termination of the management agreement may be difficult and costly, which may adversely affect our inclination to end our relationship with arrm. termination of the management agreement with arrm without cause may be difficult and costly. the term “cause” is limited to those circumstances described in the management agreement with arrm. we may not terminate the management agreement during the new initial term, as defined therein, except for cause or in connection with a corporate event, as defined therein. upon a termination by us without cause, which shall include a corporate event, the management agreement provides that we will pay arrm a termination payment equal to the greater of (a) the base management fee as calculated immediately prior to the effective date of the termination of the management agreement pursuant to section 10.2 of the management agreement for the remainder of the then current term, or (b) three times the base management fee paid to arrm in the preceding twelve-month period before such termination, calculated as of the effective date of the termination. this provision increases the effective cost to us of electing to terminate the management agreement, thereby adversely affecting our inclination to end our relationship with arrm, even if we believe arrm’s performance is not satisfactory. arrm may terminate the management agreement at any time and for any reason upon 180 days prior notice. if the management agreement is terminated and no suitable replacement is found to manage us, we may not be able to execute our business plan. additionally, following the initial term, the management agreement will automatically renew for successive five-year renewal terms unless either we or arrm give advance notice to the other of our intent not to renew the agreement prior to the expiration of the initial term or any renewal term. however, our right to give such a notice of non-renewal is limited and requires our independent directors to agree that certain conditions are met. arrm’s liability is limited under the management agreement and we have agreed to indemnify arrm and its affiliates against certain liabilities. as a result, we could experience poor performance or losses for which arrm would not be liable. the management agreement limits the liability of arrm and any directors and officers of arrm for money damages, except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services, or a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. pursuant to the management agreement, arrm will not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for there under and will not be responsible for any action of our board in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. arrm and its affiliates, directors, officers, stockholders, equity holders, employees, representatives and agents and any affiliates thereof, will not be liable to us, our stockholders, any subsidiary of ours, the stockholders of any subsidiary of 23 ours, our board, any issuer of mortgage securities, any credit-party, any counterparty under any agreement, or any other person for any acts or omissions, errors of judgment or mistakes of law by arrm or its affiliates, directors, officers, stockholders, equity holders, employees, representatives or agents, or any affiliates thereof, under or in connection with the management agreement, except if arrm was grossly negligent, acted with reckless disregard or engaged in willful misconduct or fraud while discharging its duties under the management agreement. we have agreed to indemnify arrm and its affiliates, directors, officers, stockholders, equity holders, employees, representatives and agents and any affiliates thereof, with respect to all expenses, losses, costs, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims of any nature, actual or threatened (including reasonable attorneys’ fees), arising from or in respect of any acts or omissions, errors of judgment or mistakes of law (or any alleged acts or omissions, errors of judgment or mistakes of law) performed or made while acting in any capacity contemplated under the management agreement or pursuant to any underwriting or similar agreement to which arrm is a party that is related to our activities, unless arrm was grossly negligent, acted with reckless disregard or engaged in willful misconduct or fraud while discharging its duties under the management agreement. as a result, we could experience poor performance or losses for which arrm would not be liable.   in addition, our articles of incorporation provide that no director or officer of ours shall be personally liable to us or our stockholders for money damages. furthermore, our articles of incorporation permit and our by-laws require, us to indemnify, pay or reimburse any present or former director or officer of ours who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service to us in such capacity. officers and directors of ours who are also officers and board members of arrm will therefore benefit from the exculpation and indemnification provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and accordingly may not be liable to us in such circumstances. the management agreement was not negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and the terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if they were negotiated with an unaffiliated third-party.   the management agreement that we entered into with arrm was negotiated between related parties, and we did not have the benefit of arm’s-length negotiations of the type normally conducted with an unaffiliated third-party. the terms of the management agreement, including fees payable, may not reflect the terms that we may have received if it were negotiated with an unrelated third-party. in addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the management agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with arrm.   members of our management team have competing duties to other entities, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. our executive officers and the employees of arrm do not spend all of their time managing our activities and our investment portfolio. our executive officers and the employees of arrm allocate some, or a material portion, of their time to other businesses and activities. for example, each of our executive officers is also an officer of javelin and an employee of arrm. none of these individuals is required to devote a specific amount of time to our affairs. as a result of these overlapping responsibilities, there may be conflicts of interest among and reduced time commitments from our officers and the officers and employees of javelin and arrm when making investment decisions on behalf of armour. accordingly, we will compete with javelin and arrm, and their existing activities, other ventures and possibly other entities in the future for the time and attention of these officers. in the future, we may enter, or arrm may cause us to enter, into additional transactions with arrm or its affiliates. in particular, we may purchase, or arrm may cause us to purchase, assets from arrm or its affiliates or make co-purchases alongside arrm or its affiliates. these transactions may not be the result of arm’s length negotiations and may involve conflicts between our interests and the interests of arrm and/or its affiliates in obtaining favorable terms and conditions.   federal income tax risks rapid changes in the values of our target assets may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a reit or our exemption from the 1940 act. if the market value or income potential of our agency securities declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates, general market conditions, government actions or other factors, we may need to increase certain types of our assets and income or liquidate our non-qualifying assets to maintain our reit qualifications or our exemption from the 1940 act. if the decline in real estate asset values or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. we may have to make decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the reit and the 1940 act considerations. 24 our qualification as a reit subjects us to a broad array of financial and operating parameters that may influence our business and investment decisions and limit our flexibility in reacting to market developments. in order to qualify and maintain our qualification as a reit, we must, among other things, ensure that: • that at least 75% of our gross income each year is derived from certain real estate related sources; • that at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified reit real estate assets at the end of each calendar quarter; • that the remainder of our investment in securities generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer, or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer; and • that no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of securities of any one issuer. if we fail to comply with these requirements, we must dispose of a portion of our assets within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter in order to avoid losing our reit status and suffering adverse tax consequences. if we fail to qualify as a reit, we will be subject to federal income tax as a regular corporation and may face substantial tax liability. qualification as a reit involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements (some on an annual or quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex provisions of the code for which only a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations exist. we believe we currently satisfy all the requirements of a reit. however, the determination that we satisfy all reit requirements requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within our control. we have not requested and do not intend to request, a ruling from the internal revenue service ("irs'), that we qualify as a reit. accordingly, we are not certain we will be able to qualify and remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, the u.s. congress or the irs might change tax laws or regulations and the courts might issue new rulings, in each case potentially having retroactive effect, which could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a reit. if we fail to qualify as a reit in any tax year, then: • we would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means that we would be unable to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • any resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders and could force us to liquidate assets at inopportune times, causing lower income or higher losses than would result if these assets were not liquidated; and • unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification and thus, our cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be reduced for each of the years during which we do not qualify as a reit. reit distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. we generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. to the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. in addition, we will be subject to a non-deductible 4% excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than 85% of our taxable income. we intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the reit requirements of the code. from time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with gaap, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. for example, we may be required to accrue income from mbs and other types of debt securities or interests in debt securities before we receive any payments of interest or principal on such assets. we may also acquire discounted debt investments that are subsequently modified by agreement with the borrower. if such arrangements constitute “significant modifications” of such debt under the applicable treasury regulations, the modified debt may be considered to have been reissued to us in a debt-for-debt exchange with the borrower, with gain recognized by us to the extent that the principal amount of the modified debt exceeds our cost of purchasing it prior to modification. as a result, we may find it difficult or impossible to meet distribution requirements in certain circumstances. in particular, where we experience differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash, the requirement 25 to distribute a substantial portion of our taxable income could cause us to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt, in order to comply with reit requirements, or (iv) make taxable distributions of our capital stock or debt securities. these alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. thus, compliance with the reit requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. even if we qualify and remain qualified as a reit, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. even if we qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a reit, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, excise taxes, state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes, and other taxes. in addition, in order to meet the reit qualification requirements, prevent the recognition of certain types of non-cash income, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a reit from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through a taxable reit subsidiary (“trs”) or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. in addition, if we lend money to a trs, the trs may be unable to deduct all or a portion of the interest paid to us, which could result in an even higher corporate level tax liability. any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. complying with reit requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts that we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. we may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, and may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a reit. in addition, in certain cases, the modification of a debt instrument or, potentially, an increase in the value of a debt instrument that we acquired at a significant discount, could result in the conversion of the instrument from a qualifying real estate asset to a wholly or partially non-qualifying asset that must be contributed to a trs or disposed of in order for us to qualify or maintain our qualification as a reit. thus, compliance with the reit requirements may hinder our ability to make and, in certain cases, to maintain ownership of, certain attractive investments. complying with reit requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. to qualify as a reit, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified reit real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and certain kinds of mbs. the remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities, trss and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. in addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities, trss and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more trss. if we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our reit qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. as a result, we may be required to liquidate from our investment portfolio otherwise attractive investments. for example, in certain cases, the modification of a debt instrument or, potentially, an increase in the value of a debt instrument that we acquired at a significant discount, could result in the conversion of the instrument from a qualifying real estate asset to a wholly or partially non-qualifying asset that must be liquidated in order for us to qualify or maintain our qualification as a reit. these actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. the failure of assets subject to repurchase agreements to qualify as real estate assets could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a reit. in order to finance some of our assets that we hold or acquire, we may enter into repurchase agreements, including with persons who sell us those assets. under a repurchase agreement, we will nominally sell certain of our assets to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase those sold assets. although the tax treatment of repurchase transactions is unclear, we take the position that we are treated for u.s. federal income tax purposes as the owner of those assets that are the subject of any such repurchase agreement notwithstanding that we may transfer record ownership of those assets to the counterparty during the term of any such agreement. because we enter into repurchase agreements the tax treatment of which is unclear, the irs could assert, particularly in respect of our repurchase agreements with persons who sell 26 us the assets that we wish to finance by way of repurchase agreements, that we did not own those assets during the term of the repurchase agreements, in which case we could fail to qualify as a reit. our capital loss carry forward for tax purposes may expire before we can fully use it to offset otherwise taxable income or gains. for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we have incurred a net capital loss during our taxable year ending on december 31, 2013. such net capital loss may be carried forward for five taxable years and generally used to offset taxable net capital gains realized during the carry forward period. as of december 31, 2013, our capital loss carry forward for u.s. federal income tax purposes, is equal to $579.3 million. any capital loss carry forward that we have not used to offset otherwise taxable net capital gains will expire after the end of such five-year period, and will no longer be available to us. our capital loss carry forward may expire before we can fully use it because, for example, we do not generate enough taxable net capital gains during that period. in the absence of offsetting net capital loss carry forward amounts, we will be required to make timely distributions of future net capital gains realized, or alternatively, pay u.s. federal income tax on such realized net capital gains not distributed. we may be required to report taxable income for certain investments in excess of the economic income we ultimately realize from them. we may acquire debt instruments in the secondary market for less than their face amount. the discount at which such debt instruments are acquired may reflect doubts about their ultimate collectability rather than current market interest rates. the amount of such discount will nevertheless generally be treated as “market discount” for federal income tax purposes. accrued market discount is reported as income when, and to the extent that, any payment of principal of the debt instrument is made. if we collect less on the debt instrument than our purchase price plus the market discount we had previously reported as income, we may not be able to benefit from any offsetting loss deductions. some of the debt instruments that we acquire may have been issued with original issue discount. we are required to report such original issue discount based on a constant yield method and will be taxed based on the assumption that all future projected payments due on such debt instruments will be made. if such debt instruments or mbs turn out not to be fully collectible, an offsetting loss deduction will become available only in the later year that uncollectability is provable. in addition, we may acquire debt instruments that are subsequently modified by agreement with the borrower. if the amendments to the outstanding instrument are “significant modifications” under the applicable treasury regulations, the modified instrument is considered to have been reissued to us in a debt-for-debt exchange with the borrower. in that event, we may be required to recognize taxable gain to the extent the principal amount of the modified instrument exceeds our adjusted tax basis in the unmodified instrument, even if the value of the instrument or the payment expectations have not changed. following such a taxable modification, we would hold the modified loan with a cost basis equal to its principal amount for federal tax purposes. finally, in the event that any debt instruments acquired by us are delinquent as to mandatory principal and interest payments, or in the event payments with respect to a particular instrument are not made when due, we may nonetheless be required to continue to recognize the unpaid interest as taxable income as it accrues, despite doubt as to its ultimate collectability. similarly, we may be required to accrue interest income with respect to debt instruments at its stated rate regardless of whether corresponding cash payments are received or are ultimately collectible. in each case, while we would in general ultimately have an offsetting loss deduction available to us when such interest was determined to be uncollectible, the utility of that deduction could depend on our having taxable income in that later year or thereafter. distributions to tax-exempt investors may be classified as unrelated business taxable income. neither ordinary nor capital gain distributions with respect to our common stock nor gain from the sale of common stock should generally constitute unrelated business taxable income to a tax-exempt investor. however, there are certain exceptions to this rule, including: (i) part of the income and gain recognized by certain qualified employee pension trusts with respect to our common stock may be treated as unrelated business taxable income if shares of our common stock are predominantly held by qualified employee pension trusts, and we are required to rely on a special look-through rule for purposes of meeting one of the reit ownership tests, and we are not operated in a manner to avoid treatment of such income or gain as unrelated business taxable income; (ii) part of the income and gain recognized by a tax-exempt investor with respect to our common stock would constitute unrelated business taxable income if the investor incurs debt in order to acquire the common stock; (iii) part or all of the income or gain recognized with respect to our common stock by social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group legal services plans which are exempt from federal income taxation under the code may be treated as unrelated business taxable income; and (iv) to the extent that we are (or a part of us, or a disregarded subsidiary of ours, is) a “taxable mortgage pool,” or if we hold residual interests in a real estate mortgage investment conduit ("remic"), a portion of the distributions paid to a tax-exempt stockholder that is allocable to excess inclusion income may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. 27 the “taxable mortgage pool” rules may increase the taxes that we or our stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations. securitizations could result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for federal income tax purposes. as a reit, so long as we own 100% of the equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool, we generally would not be adversely affected by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. certain categories of stockholders, however, such as foreign stockholders eligible for treaty or other benefits, stockholders with net operating losses and certain tax-exempt stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their distribution income from us that is attributable to the taxable mortgage pool. in addition, to the extent that our stock is owned by tax-exempt “disqualified organizations,” such as certain government-related entities and charitable remainder trusts that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, we may incur a corporate level tax on a portion of our income from the taxable mortgage pool. in that case, we will reduce the amount of our distributions to any disqualified organization whose stock ownership gave rise to the tax. moreover, we would be precluded from selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. these limitations may prevent us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns from securitization transactions.   we may incur excess inclusion income that would increase the tax liability of our stockholders or the company.   in general, dividend income that a tax-exempt entity receives from us should not constitute unrelated business taxable income as defined in section 512 of the code. if we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, however, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under section 512 of the code. if the stockholder is foreign, it would generally be subject to u.s. federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. u.s. stockholders would not be able to offset such income with their operating losses. if our stock is held in record name by "disqualified organizations" (generally government entities and certain tax-exempt investors, such as certain state pension plans and charitable remainder trusts, that are not subject to the tax on unrelated business taxable income), the company must pay tax at the highest corporate rate on any excess inclusion income attributable to such disqualified organization investors.  that tax would reduce our taxable reit income.   we generally structure our borrowing arrangements in a manner designed to avoid generating significant amounts of excess inclusion income. however, excess inclusion income could result if we held a residual interest in a remic. excess inclusion income also may be generated if we were to issue debt obligations with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments on these obligations bore a relationship to the payments that we received on our mbs securing those debt obligations. for example, we may engage in non-remic cmo securitizations. we also enter into various repurchase agreements that have differing maturity dates and afford the lender the right to sell any pledged mortgage securities if we default on our obligations. these transactions may give rise to excess inclusion income that requires allocation among our stockholders. we may invest in equity securities of other reits and it is possible that we might receive excess inclusion income from those investments. some types of entities, including, without limitation, voluntarily employee benefit associations and entities that have borrowed funds to acquire their shares of our stock, may be required to treat a portion of or all of the dividends they receive from us as unrelated business taxable income.   to the extent we invest in construction loans, we may fail to qualify as a reit if the irs successfully challenges our estimates of the fair market value of land improvements that will secure those loans. we may invest in construction loans, the interest from which will be qualifying income for purposes of the reit income tests, provided that the loan value of the real property securing the construction loan is equal to or greater than the highest outstanding principal amount of the construction loan during any taxable year. for purposes of construction loans, the loan value of the real property is the fair market value of the land plus the reasonably estimated cost of the improvements or developments (other than personal property), which will secure the loan and which are to be constructed from the proceeds of the loan. there can be no assurance that the irs would not successfully challenge our estimate of the loan value of the real property and our treatment of the construction loans for purposes of the reit income and assets tests, which may cause us to fail to qualify as a reit. liquidation of assets may jeopardize our reit qualification or create additional tax liability for us. to qualify as a reit, we must comply with requirements regarding the composition of our assets and our sources of income. if we are compelled to liquidate our investments to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a reit, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory. 28 the tax on prohibited transactions limits our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans, which would be treated as prohibited transactions for federal income tax purposes. net income that we derive from a prohibited transaction is subject to a 100% tax. the term “prohibited transaction” generally includes a sale or other disposition of property (including mortgage loans, but other than foreclosure property, as discussed below) that is held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business by us or by a borrower that has issued a shared appreciation mortgage or similar debt instrument to us. we might be subject to this tax if we were to dispose of or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a prohibited transaction for federal income tax purposes. we conduct our operations so that no asset that we own (or are treated as owning) will be treated as, or as having been, held for sale to customers, and that a sale of any such asset will not be treated as having been in the ordinary course of our business. as a result, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans at the reit level, and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions, even though the sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. in addition, whether property is held “primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business” depends on the particular facts and circumstances. no assurance can be given that any property that we sell will not be treated as property held for sale to customers, or that we can comply with certain safe-harbor provisions of the code that would prevent such treatment. the 100% tax does not apply to gains from the sale of property that is held through a trs or other taxable corporation, although such income will be subject to tax in the hands of the corporation at regular corporate rates. we structure our activities to avoid prohibited transaction characterization. complying with reit requirements may force us to borrow to make distributions to our stockholders. as a reit, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual reit taxable income (excluding net capital gains) to our stockholders. from time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes from, among other things, the non-taxable unrealized changes in the value of our derivatives, or our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders. if we do not have other funds available in these situations, we may be unable to distribute 90% of our taxable income as required by the reit rules. thus, we could be required to borrow funds, sell a portion of our assets at disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds. these alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity and reduce amounts available to invest in agency securities. employee retirement income security act (“erisa”) tax risks plans should consider erisa risks of investing in our common stock. investment in our common stock may not be appropriate for a pension, profit-sharing, employee benefit, or retirement plan, considering the plan’s particular circumstances, under the fiduciary standards of erisa, or other applicable similar laws including standards with respect to prudence, diversification and delegation of control and the prohibited transaction provisions of erisa, the code and any applicable similar laws. erisa and section 4975 of the code prohibit certain transactions that involve (i) certain pension, profit-sharing, employee benefit, or retirement plans or individual retirement accounts and (ii) any person who is a “party in interest” or “disqualified person” with respect to such plan. consequently, the fiduciary of a plan contemplating an investment in our common stock should consider whether its company, any other person associated with the issuance of its common stock or any affiliate of the foregoing is or may become a “party in interest” or “disqualified person” with respect to the plan and, if so, whether an exemption from such prohibited transaction rules is applicable. erisa may limit our ability to attract capital from benefit plan investors. it is unlikely that we will qualify as an operating company for purposes of erisa. consequently, in order to avoid our assets being deemed to include so-called “plan assets” under erisa, we will initially limit equity ownership in us by benefit plan investors to less than 25% of the value of each class or series of capital stock issued by us and to prohibit transfers of our common stock to benefit plan investors. our charter prohibits benefit plan investors from holding any interest in any shares of our capital stock that are not publicly traded. these restrictions on investments in us by benefit plan investors (and certain similar investors) may adversely affect the ability of our stockholders to transfer their shares of our common stock and our ability to attract private equity capital in the future. 29 risks related to our common stock the performance of our common stock correlates to the performance of our reit investments, which may be speculative and aggressive compared to other types of investments. the investments we make in accordance with our investment objectives may result in a greater amount of risk as compared to alternative investment options, including relatively higher risk of volatility or loss of principal. our investments may be speculative and aggressive, and therefore an investment in our common stock may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. one of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of our common stock is our distribution rate as a percentage of the trading price of our common stock relative to market interest rates. if the market price of our common stock is based primarily on the earnings and return that we derive from our investments and income with respect to our investments and our related distributions to stockholders, and not from the market value of the investments themselves, then interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions are likely to affect adversely the market price of our common stock. for instance, if market rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of our common stock could decrease as potential investors may require a higher distribution yield on our common stock or seek other securities paying higher distributions or interest. in addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, thereby reducing cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and pay distributions.   future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. in the future, we may raise capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities. upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred stock, if any, and lenders with respect to other borrowings will be entitled to our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. additional series of preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares of our common stock issued pursuant to our incentive plan, or the perception that these sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. thus holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in us. there are significant restrictions on ownership of our common stock. in order for us to maintain our qualification as a reit under the code, not more than 50% in value of the issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year (other than our first year as a reit).  this test is known as the “5/50 test.”  attribution rules in the code apply to determine if any individual actually or constructively owns our capital stock for purposes of this requirement, including, without limitation, a rule that deems, in certain cases, a certain holder of a warrant or option to purchase stock as owning the shares underlying such warrant or option and a rule that treats shares owned (or treated as owned, including shares underlying warrants) by entities in which an individual has a direct or indirect interest as if they were owned by such individual.  additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our capital stock during at least 335 days of each taxable year (other than our first year as a reit). while we believe that we meet the 5/50 test, no assurance can be given that we will continue to meet this test. our charter prohibits beneficial or constructive ownership by any person of more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock or all classes of our capital stock. additionally, our charter prohibits beneficial or constructive ownership of our stock that would otherwise result in our failure to qualify as a reit. in each case, such prohibition includes a prohibition on owning warrants or options to purchase stock if ownership of the underlying stock would cause the holder or beneficial owner to exceed the prohibited thresholds. the ownership rules in our charter are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be owned by one individual or entity. as a result, these ownership rules could cause an individual or entity to unintentionally own shares beneficially or constructively in excess of our ownership limits. any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common or preferred stock, in excess of our ownership limits without the consent of our board of directors shall be void, and will result in the shares being transferred to a charitable trust. these provisions may inhibit market activity and the resulting opportunity for our stockholders 30 to receive a premium for their shares that might otherwise exist if any person were to attempt to assemble a block of shares of our stock in excess of the number of shares permitted under our charter and which may be in the best interests of our stockholders. we may grant waivers from the 9.8% charter restriction for holders where, based on representations, covenants and agreements received from certain equity holders, we determine that such waivers would not jeopardize our status as a reit. item 1b. unresolved