item 1a.   risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. our ability to grow is affected by our ability to retain and expand our existing client relationships and our ability to attract new customers. our ability to grow is affected by our ability to retain and expand our existing client relationships and our ability to attract new customers. our ability to retain existing customers and expand those relationships is subject to a number of risks including the risk that we do not:   •   maintain or improve the quality of services that we provide to our customers;   •   maintain or improve the level of attention expected by our customers; and   •   successfully leverage our existing client relationships to sell additional services. if our efforts to retain and expand our client relationships and to attract new customers do not prove effective, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.   - 10 - table of contents our continuing relationship with ocwen may inhibit our ability to obtain and retain other customers that compete with ocwen. as of december 31, 2010, our chairman owns or controls more than 15% of ocwen’s common stock and 25% of our common stock. we derived 51% of our revenues in 2010 from ocwen or the loan servicing portfolio managed by ocwen. given this close and continuing relationship with ocwen, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining and retaining other customers who compete with ocwen. should these and other potential customers continue to view altisource as part of ocwen or as too closely related to or dependent upon ocwen, they may be unwilling to utilize our services, and our growth could be inhibited as a result. we are dependent on certain key customer relationships, the loss of or their inability to pay could reduce our revenues. we currently generate approximately 51% of our revenue from ocwen. following the separation, ocwen is contractually obligated to purchase certain mortgage services and technology services from us under service agreements that extend for eight years from the separation date subject to termination under certain provisions. our largest financial services customer is american express which accounted for 8% of our consolidated 2010 revenues. our relationship with american express is governed by an agreement that generally sets out the guidelines on which we will provide services although each assignment from american express is separately agreed to by american express. american express is not contractually obligated to continue to use our services at historical levels or at all, and the relationship is terminable by american express by giving 30 days prior written notice to us. assurant accounted for 9% of our 2010 revenue contributing to both our mortgage services and technology services segments. our relationship with assurant is governed by five year agreements that establish minimum service and pricing levels and generally are not terminable except in certain circumstances. while no other individual client represents more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, we are exposed to customer concentration. most of our customers are not contractually obligated to continue to use our services at historical levels or at all. the loss of any of these key customers or their failure to pay us could reduce our revenues and adversely affect results of operations. if we do not adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological change, frequent introduction of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance, primarily through use of automation, econometrics and behavioral science principles, our current services and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their customers. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance effectiveness. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands. in addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these services. finally, our services and their enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. any of these results would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the company’s growth objectives are dependent on the timing and market acceptance of our new service offerings. our ability to grow may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in service development or the inability to gain market acceptance of new services to existing and new customers. there are no guarantees that new services will prove to be commercially successful.   - 11 - table of contents our intellectual property rights are valuable and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our services. our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights are important assets. the efforts we have taken to protect these proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. the unauthorized use of our intellectual property or significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business, make it more expensive to do business or hurt our ability to compete. protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. changes in patent law, such as changes in the law regarding patentable subject matter, can also impact our ability to obtain patent protection for our innovations. in addition, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important. furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. technology failures could damage our business operations and increase our costs. system disruptions or failures may interrupt or delay our ability to provide services to our customers. any sustained and repeated disruptions in these services may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the secure transmission of confidential information over the internet is essential to maintaining consumer confidence. security breaches and acts of vandalism could result in a compromise or breach of the technology that we use to protect our customers’ personal information and transaction data and could result in the assessment of penalties. furthermore, congress or individual states could enact new laws regulating electronic commerce that could adversely affect us and our results of operations. we may be subject to claims of legal violations or wrongful conduct which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or modify our products or processes. from time to time, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings that claim legal violations or wrongful conduct. these lawsuits may involve clients, vendors, competitors and / or other large groups of plaintiffs and, if resulting in findings of violations, could result in substantial damages. alternatively, the company may be forced to settle some claims out of court and change existing company practices, services and processes that are currently revenue generating. this could lead to unexpected costs or a loss of revenue. if we fail to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions, our business could be harmed. as a provider of services to financial institutions, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from their customers that apply to the financial institutions themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be exposed to lawsuits or to governmental proceedings; our customer relationships and reputation could be harmed; and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new customers. in addition, the adoption of more restrictive privacy laws or rules in the future on the federal or state level could have an adverse impact on us. our business is subject to extensive regulation, and failure to comply with existing or new regulations may adversely impact us. our business is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities including the federal trade commission and the state agencies that license certain of our mortgage related services and collection services. we also must comply with a number of federal, state and local consumer protection laws including, among others, the dodd-frank act, the gramm-leach-bliley act, the fair debt collection practices act, the real estate settlement procedures act, the truth in lending act, the fair credit reporting act, the homeowners protection act and the safe act. these requirements can and do change as statutes and regulations are enacted, promulgated or amended.   - 12 - table of contents we are subject to certain federal, state and local consumer protection provisions. we also are subject to licensing and regulation as a mortgage service provider, title insurance agency, real estate broker and/or debt collector in a number of states. we are subject to audits and examinations that are conducted by the states in which we do business. our employees and subsidiaries may be required to be licensed by various state commissions for the particular type of service sold and to participate in regular continuing education programs. from time to time, we receive requests from state and other agencies for records, documents and information regarding our policies, procedures and practices for our mortgage services and debt collection business activities. we incur significant ongoing costs to comply with governmental regulations. the volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and, in addition, some individual municipalities have begun to enact laws that restrict mortgage services activities. if our regulators impose new or more restrictive requirements, we may incur significant additional costs to comply with such requirements which could further adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. in addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations can possibly lead to civil and criminal liability; loss of licensure; damage to our reputation in the industry; fines and penalties; and litigation, including class action lawsuits or administrative enforcement actions. any of these outcomes could harm our results of operations or financial condition. altisource is a luxembourg company, and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against it or its directors and executive officers. altisource is a public limited company organized under the laws of luxembourg. as a result, luxembourg law and the articles of incorporation govern the rights of shareholders. the rights of shareholders under luxembourg law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. a significant portion of the assets of altisource are located outside the united states. it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in the united states, judgments obtained in u.s. courts against altisource or its directors based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. securities laws or to enforce, in luxembourg, judgments obtained in other jurisdictions including the united states. item 1b.   unresolved