item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. risks related to our business and industry our continuing relationship with ocwen may inhibit our ability to obtain and retain other customers that compete with ocwen. as of december 31, 2011, our chairman owns or controls more than 13% of ocwen’s common stock and 23% of our common stock. we derived 58% of our revenues in 2011 from ocwen or the loan servicing portfolio managed by ocwen. given this close and continuing relationship with ocwen, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining and retaining other customers who compete with ocwen. should these and other potential customers continue to view altisource as part of ocwen or as too closely related to or dependent upon ocwen, they may be unwilling to utilize our services, and our growth could be inhibited as a result. we are dependent on certain key customer relationships, the loss of or their inability to pay could affect our business and results of operations. we currently generate approximately 58% of our revenue from ocwen. following the separation, ocwen is contractually obligated to purchase certain services from our mortgage services and technology services segments under service agreements that extend for eight years from the date of separation subject to termination under certain provisions. while no other individual client represents more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, we are exposed to customer concentration. most of our customers are not contractually obligated to continue to use our services at historical levels or at all. the loss of any of these key customers or their failure to pay us could reduce our revenues and adversely affect results of operations.   11 table of contents our business is subject to substantial competition. the markets for our services are very competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. we compete for existing and new customers against both third parties and the in-house capabilities of our customers. some of our competitors have substantial resources and some have widely used technology platforms that they seek to use as a competitive advantage to drive sales of other products and services. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. these new technologies may render our existing technologies obsolete, resulting in operating inefficiencies and increased competitive pressure. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our intellectual property rights are valuable and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our services. our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights are important assets. the efforts we have taken to protect these proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. the unauthorized use of our intellectual property or significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business, make it more expensive to do business or hurt our ability to compete. protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. changes in patent law, such as changes in the law regarding patentable subject matter, can also impact our ability to obtain patent protection for our innovations. in addition, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important. furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. technology failures could damage our business operations and increase our costs. system disruptions or failures may interrupt or delay our ability to provide services to our customers. any sustained and repeated disruptions in these services may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the secure transmission of confidential information over the internet is essential to maintaining consumer confidence. security breaches and acts of vandalism could result in a compromise or breach of the technology that we use to protect our customers’ personal information and transaction data and could result in the assessment of penalties. furthermore, congress or individual states could enact new laws regulating electronic commerce that could adversely affect us and our results of operations. our technology solutions have a long sale cycle and are subject to development and obsolescence risks. many of our services in the technology services segment are based on sophisticated software and computing systems with long sales cycles. we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers. further, defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, loss of customers, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. any one or more of the foregoing occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is subject to extensive regulation, and failure to comply with existing or new regulations may adversely impact us. our business is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities including the federal trade commission, the state agencies that license certain of our mortgage related services and collection services and the sec. we also must comply with a number of federal, state and local consumer protection laws including, among others, the gramm-leach-bliley act, the fair debt collection practices act, the real estate   12 table of contents settlement procedures act, the truth in lending act, the fair credit reporting act, the homeowners protection act, the safe act, the mortgage act and the foreign corrupt practices act. these requirements can and do change as statutes and regulations are enacted, promulgated or amended. the ongoing economic uncertainty and troubled housing market have resulted in increased regulatory scrutiny of all participants involved in the mortgage industry. this scrutiny has included federal and state governmental agency review of all aspects of the mortgage lending and servicing industries, including an increased legislative and regulatory focus on consumer protection practices. one such recently enacted regulation is the dodd-frank act (see further description in item 1. business, government regulation section above). in some cases, penalties for noncompliance are significantly increased and could lead to settlements or consent orders on us or our customers that may curtail or restrict the business as it is currently conducted. we are subject to additional certain federal, state and local consumer protection provisions. we also are subject to licensing and regulation as a mortgage services provider, valuation provider, appraisal management company, asset manager, property manager, title insurance agency, real estate broker and/or debt collector in a number of states. we are subject to audits and examinations that are conducted by the states in which we do business. our employees and subsidiaries may be required to be licensed by various state commissions for the particular type of service sold and to participate in regular continuing education programs. from time to time, we receive requests from state and other agencies for records, documents and information regarding our policies, procedures and practices for our mortgage services and debt collection business activities. we incur significant ongoing costs to comply with governmental regulations. the volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and, in addition, some individual municipalities have begun to enact laws that restrict mortgage services activities. if our regulators impose new or more restrictive requirements, we may incur significant additional costs to comply with such requirements which could further adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. in addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations can possibly lead to civil and criminal liability, loss of licensure, damage to our reputation in the industry, fines and penalties, and litigation, including class action lawsuits or administrative enforcement actions. any of these outcomes could harm our results of operations or financial condition. if we fail to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions, our business could be harmed. as a provider of services to financial institutions, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from their customers that apply to the financial institutions themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be exposed to lawsuits or to governmental proceedings, our customer relationships and reputation could be harmed and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new customers. in addition, the adoption of more restrictive privacy laws or rules in the future on the federal or state level could have an adverse impact on us. we may be subject to claims of legal violations or wrongful conduct which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or modify our products or processes. from time to time, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings that claim legal violations or wrongful conduct. these lawsuits may involve clients, vendors, competitors and / or other large groups of plaintiffs and, if resulting in findings of violations, could result in substantial damages. alternatively, we may be forced to settle some claims out of court and change existing company practices, services and processes that are currently revenue generating. this could lead to unexpected costs or a loss of revenue. if financial institutions at which we hold escrow funds fail, it could have a material adverse impact on our company. we hold customers’ assets in escrow at various financial institutions, pending completion of certain real estate and debt collection activities. these amounts are held in escrow for limited periods of time, generally consisting of a few days. to the extent these assets are not co-mingled with our fees and are maintained in segregated bank accounts they are generally not included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. failure of one or more of these financial institutions may lead us to become liable for the funds owed to third parties, and there is no guarantee that we would recover the funds deposited, whether through federal deposit insurance corporation coverage, private insurance or otherwise.   13 table of contents risks related to our growth strategy our ability to grow is affected by our ability to retain and expand our existing client relationships and our ability to attract new customers. our ability to grow is affected by our ability to retain and expand our existing client relationships and our ability to attract new customers. our ability to retain existing customers and expand those relationships is subject to a number of risks including the risk that we do not:     • maintain or improve the quality of services that we provide to our customers;     • maintain or improve the level of attention expected by our customers; and     • successfully leverage our existing client relationships to sell additional services. if our efforts to retain and expand our client relationships and to attract new customers do not prove effective, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to grow our operations. if we do not adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological change, frequent introduction of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance, primarily through use of automation, econometrics and behavioral science principles, our current services and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their customers. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance effectiveness. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands. in addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these services. finally, our services and their enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. any of these results would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to grow our operations. our growth objectives are dependent on the timing and market acceptance of our new service offerings. our ability to grow may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in service development or the inability to gain market acceptance of new services to existing and new customers. there are no guarantees that new services will prove to be commercially successful. our business is dependent on the trend toward outsourcing. our continued growth at historical rates is dependent on the industry trend toward outsourced services. there can be no assurance that this trend will continue, as organizations may elect to perform such services themselves or may be prevented from outsourcing services. a significant change in this trend could have a materially adverse effect on our continued growth. our strategy of growing through selective acquisitions and mergers involves potential risks. we intend to consider acquisitions of other companies that could complement our business including the acquisition of entities offering greater access and expertise in other asset types and markets that are related but that we do not currently serve. if we do acquire other businesses, we may face a number of risks including diverting management’s   14 table of contents attention from our daily operations, to the need for additional management, operational and financial resources along with system conversions and the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition relationships with customers, suppliers and employees. moreover, any acquisition may result in the incurrence of additional amortization expense of related intangible assets which could reduce our profitability. risks related to international business our international operations subject us to additional risks which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we have reduced our costs by utilizing lower cost labor in foreign countries such as india. for example, at december 31, 2011, over 5,400 of our employees were based in india. these countries are subject to relatively higher degrees of political and social instability and may lack the infrastructure to withstand political unrest or natural disasters. such disruptions can decrease efficiency and increase our costs in these countries. weakness of the u.s. dollar in relation to the currencies used in these foreign countries may also reduce the savings achievable through this strategy. furthermore, the practice of utilizing labor based in foreign countries has come under increased scrutiny in the united states and, as a result, some of our customers may require us to use labor based in the united states. we may not be able to pass on the increased costs of higher-priced united states-based labor to our customers which ultimately could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act (“fcpa”). any violations of the fcpa or local anti-corruption laws by us, our subsidiaries or our local agents, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation and result in substantial financial penalties or other sanctions. any political or economic instability in these countries could result in our having to replace or reduce these labor sources which may increase our labor costs and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. altisource is a luxembourg company, and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against it or its directors and executive officers. altisource is a public limited company organized under the laws of luxembourg. as a result, luxembourg law and the articles of incorporation govern the rights of shareholders. the rights of shareholders under luxembourg law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. a significant portion of the assets of altisource are located outside the united states. it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in the united states, judgments obtained in u.s. courts against altisource or its directors based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. securities laws or to enforce, in luxembourg, judgments obtained in other jurisdictions including the united states. risks related to our employees our inability to attract and retain skilled employees may adversely impact our business. our business is labor intensive and places significant importance on our ability to recruit, train and retain skilled employees. additionally, demand for qualified technical professionals conversant in certain technologies may exceed supply as new and additional skills are required to keep pace with evolving computer technology. our ability to locate and train employees is critical to achieving our growth objective. our inability to attract and retain skilled employees or an increase in wages or other costs of attracting, training or retaining skilled employees could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   item 1b. unresolved