item 1a.    risk factors in addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations (including revenues and profitability) or stock price. our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that may broadly affect companies, including us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. our results of operations could be adversely affected by volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients’ businesses and levels of business activity. global macroeconomic conditions affect our clients’ businesses and the markets they serve. developments, such as the recent recessions and instability in the u.s. and europe, government spending restrictions potentially occurring at the end of calendar year 2012 in the united states (commonly referred to as the fiscal cliff), deterioration in the chinese economy, and the inflationary risks associated with higher commodity prices, among other developments, may have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions in our significant markets have undermined and could in the future undermine business confidence in our significant markets or in other markets and cause our clients to reduce or defer their spending on new technologies or initiatives or terminate existing contracts, which would negatively affect our business. growth in the markets we serve could be at a slow rate, or could stagnate or contract, in each case, for an extended period of time. differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographical regions in which we operate and the industries we serve have affected and may in the future affect demand for our services. a material portion of our revenues and profitability is derived from our clients in europe and north america. weakening demand in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. ongoing economic volatility and uncertainty affects our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to accurately forecast client demand beyond the short term and effectively build our revenue and resource plans, particularly in consulting. this could result, for example, in us having to use involuntary terminations as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance. economic volatility and uncertainty is particularly challenging because it may take some time for the effects and resulting changes in demand patters to manifest themselves in our business and results of operations. changing demand patterns from economic volatility and uncertainty could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. our business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for our services and solutions, and a significant reduction in such demand could materially affect our results of operations. our revenue and profitability depend on the demand for our services with favorable margins, which could be negatively affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control and unrelated to our work product. as described above, volatile, negative or uncertain global economic conditions have adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect client demand for our services and solutions. in addition, developments in the industries we serve, which may be rapid, could shift demand to services and solutions where we are less competitive, or might require significant investment by us to upgrade, enhance or expand our services and solutions to meet that demand. companies in the industries we serve sometimes seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. if one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its consulting, systems integration and technology, or outsourcing services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work if we are not successful in generating new opportunities from the merger or consolidation. many of our consulting contracts are less than 12 months in duration, and 11 table of contents these contracts typically permit a client to terminate the agreement with as little as 30 days’ notice. longer-term, larger and more complex contracts, such as the majority of our outsourcing contracts, generally require a longer notice period for termination and often include an early termination charge to be paid to us, but this charge might not be sufficient to cover our costs or make up for anticipated ongoing revenues and profits lost upon termination of the contract. if a client is dissatisfied with our services and we are unable to effectively respond to its needs, the client might terminate existing contracts, or reduce or eliminate spending on the services and solutions we provide. additionally, a client could choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project, try to renegotiate the terms of its contract or cancel or delay additional planned work. when contracts are terminated or not renewed, we lose the anticipated revenues, and it may take significant time to replace the level of revenues lost. consequently, our results of operations in subsequent periods could be materially lower than expected. the specific business or financial condition of a client, changes in management and changes in a client’s strategy also are all factors that can result in terminations, cancellations or delays. for example, in fiscal 2009, we experienced a higher volume of contract terminations and restructurings as a result of challenging economic conditions and clients being acquired, which negatively affected our results of operations. it could also result in pressure to reduce the cost of our services. for example, during fiscal years 2009 and 2010, challenging economic conditions led to our moving work more quickly into our global delivery network than planned in order to respond to client demand to reduce costs, which resulted in our revenues being less than anticipated. if we are unable to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world and attract and retain professionals with strong leadership skills, our business, the utilization rate of our professionals and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.   our success is dependent, in large part, on our ability to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world and our ability to attract and retain personnel with the knowledge and skills to lead our business globally. experienced personnel in our industry are in high demand, and competition for talent is intense. we must hire, retain and motivate appropriate numbers of talented people with diverse skills in order to serve clients across the globe, respond quickly to rapid and ongoing technology, industry and macroeconomic developments and grow and manage our business. for example, if we are unable to hire or continually train our employees to keep pace with the rapid and continuing changes in technology and the industries we serve or changes in the types of services clients are demanding, such as the increase in demand for outsourcing services, we may not be able to develop and deliver new services and solutions to fulfill client demand. as we expand our services and solutions, we must also hire and retain an increasing number of professionals with different skills and professional expectations than those of the professionals we have historically hired and retained. additionally, if we are unable to successfully integrate, motivate and retain these professionals, our ability to continue to secure work in those industries and for our services and solutions may suffer. we are particularly dependent on retaining our senior executives and other experienced managers, and if we are unable to do so, our ability to develop new business and effectively lead our current projects could be jeopardized. we depend on identifying, developing and retaining key employees to provide leadership and direction for our businesses. this includes developing talent and leadership capabilities in emerging markets, where the depth of skilled employees is often limited and competition for these resources is intense. our geographic expansion strategy in emerging markets depends on our ability to attract, retain and integrate both local business leaders and people with the appropriate skills. similarly, our profitability depends on our ability to effectively utilize personnel with the right mix of skills and experience to perform services for our clients, including our ability to transition employees to new assignments on a timely basis. if we are unable to effectively deploy our employees globally on a timely basis to fulfill the needs of our clients, our ability to perform our work profitably could suffer. if the utilization rate of our professionals is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition, the quality of the work performed as well as our ability to staff projects. if our utilization rate is too low, our profitability and the engagement of our employees could suffer. the costs associated with recruiting and training employees are significant. an important element of our global business model is the deployment of our employees around the world, which allows us to move talent as needed, and particularly in emerging markets. therefore, if we are not able to deploy the talent we need because of increased regulation of immigration or work visas, including limitations placed on the number of visas granted, limitations on the type of work performed or location in which it can be performed, and new or higher minimum salary requirements, it could be more difficult to staff our employees on client engagements and could increase our costs. our equity-based incentive compensation plans are designed to reward high-performing personnel for their contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us. if the anticipated value of such incentives does not materialize because of volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price, or if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, our ability to attract and retain the personnel we need could be adversely affected. in addition, if we do not obtain the shareholder approval needed to continue granting equity awards under our share plans in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract and retain personnel could be negatively affected. there is a risk that at certain points in time and in certain geographical regions, we will find it difficult to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds to meet current and/or future demand. in these cases, we might need to redeploy existing personnel or increase our reliance on subcontractors to fill certain labor needs, and if not done effectively, our profitability could be negatively impacted. additionally, if demand for our services were to escalate at a high rate, we may 12 table of contents need to adjust our compensation practices, which could put upward pressure on our costs and adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to recover these increased costs. at certain times, however, we may also have more personnel than we need in certain skill sets or geographies. in these situations, we must evaluate voluntary attrition and use reduced levels of new hiring and increased involuntary terminations as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand in those geographies. the markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we might not be able to compete effectively. the markets in which we offer our services are highly competitive. our competitors include: • large multinational providers, including the services arms of large global technology providers (hardware, equipment and software), that offer some or all of the services that we do; • off-shore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in india, the philippines and china, that offer services similar to those we offer, often at highly competitive prices and on more aggressive contractual terms; • niche solution or service providers or local competitors that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area, including companies that provide new or alternative products, services or delivery models; • accounting firms that are expanding or building their provision of some consulting services, including through acquisitions; and • in-house departments of large corporations that use their own resources, rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services we provide. some competitors are companies that may have greater financial, marketing or other resources than we do and, therefore, may be better able to compete for new work and skilled professionals. even if we have potential offerings that address marketplace or client needs, competitors may be more successful at selling similar services they offer, including to companies that are our clients. some competitors are more established in certain emerging markets, and that may make executing our geographic expansion strategy in these markets more challenging. additionally, competitors may also offer more aggressive contractual terms, which may affect our ability to win work. our future performance is largely dependent on our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve, while expanding into additional markets. if we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and clients to competitors, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, we may face greater competition due to consolidation of companies in the technology sector, through strategic mergers or acquisitions. consolidation activity may result in new competitors with greater scale, a broader footprint or offerings that are more attractive than ours. for example, there has been a trend toward consolidation among hardware manufacturers, software developers and vendors, and service providers, which has resulted in the convergence of products and services. over time, our access to such products and services may be reduced as a result of this consolidation. additionally, vertically integrated companies are able to offer as a single provider more integrated services (software and hardware) to clients than we can in some cases, and therefore may represent a more attractive alternative to clients. if buyers of services favor using a single provider for an integrated technology stack, such buyers may direct more business to such competitors, and this could materially adversely affect our competitive position and our results of operations. we could have liability or our reputation could be damaged if we fail to protect client and/or accenture data or information systems as obligated by law or contract or if our information systems are breached. we are dependent on information technology networks and systems to securely process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients, alliance partners, and vendors. as the breadth and complexity of this infrastructure continue to grow, the potential risk of security breaches and cyberattacks increases. such breaches could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. in providing services to clients, we often manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or accenture data, including personal data. as a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the national laws implementing the european union directive on data protection and various u.s. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information. these laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and sometimes conflict among the various countries in which we operate. if any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or accenture data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. these monetary damages might not be subject to a contractual limit of liability or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages and could be significant. unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or accenture data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. similarly, unauthorized access to or through our 13 table of contents information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, including a cyberattack by computer programmers and hackers who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs, could result in negative publicity, significant remediation costs, legal liability and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, our liability insurance might not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyberattacks and other related breaches. as a result of our geographically diverse operations and our growth strategy to continue geographic expansion, we are more susceptible to certain risks. we have offices and operations in more than 200 cities in 54 countries around the world. one aspect of our growth strategy is to continue to expand globally, and particularly to seek significant growth in our priority emerging markets. our growth strategy might not be successful. if we are unable to manage the risks of our global operations and geographic expansion strategy, including international hostilities, natural disasters, security breaches, failure to maintain compliance with our clients’ control requirements and multiple legal and regulatory systems, our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected. in addition, emerging markets generally involve greater financial and operational risks, such as those described below, than our more mature markets. negative or uncertain political climates in countries or geographies where we operate could also adversely affect us. we could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies.  in some countries, we could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies, which would limit our ability to use this cash across our global operations. this risk could increase as we continue our geographic expansion in emerging markets, which are more likely to impose these restrictions than more established markets. international hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics and infrastructure disruptions could prevent us from effectively serving our clients and thus adversely affect our results of operations.  acts of terrorist violence; political unrest; armed regional and international hostilities and international responses to these hostilities; natural disasters, like the earthquake and resulting tsunami in japan in march 2011, volcanic eruptions, floods and other severe weather conditions; global health emergencies or pandemics or the threat of or perceived potential for these events; and other acts of god could have a negative impact on us. these events could adversely affect our clients’ levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. these events also pose significant risks to our people and to physical facilities and operations around the world, whether the facilities are ours or those of our alliance partners or clients. by disrupting communications and travel and increasing the difficulty of obtaining and retaining highly skilled and qualified personnel, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver services to our clients. extended disruptions of electricity, other public utilities or network services at our facilities, as well as system failures at, or security breaches in, our facilities or systems, could also adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. we might be unable to protect our people, facilities and systems against all such occurrences. we generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, conflicts and wars. if these disruptions prevent us from effectively serving our clients, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could harm our business.  we are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anticorruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations. this includes in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. violations of these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our clients also could result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws may not be well developed or provide sufficiently clear guidance and may be insufficient to protect our rights. in particular, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand, practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption laws, or regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act 2010. our employees, subcontractors, agents, alliance or joint venture partners and other third parties with which we associate, could take actions that violate policies or procedures designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance or applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of these third parties could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions (whether or not we participated or knew about the actions leading to the violations), including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, including u.s. federal contracting, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our reputation. 14 table of contents changes in laws and regulations could also mandate significant and costly changes to the way we implement our services and solutions or could impose additional taxes on our services and solutions. for example, changes in laws and regulations to limit using off-shore resources in connection with our work or to penalize companies that use off-shore resources, which have been proposed from time to time in various jurisdictions, could adversely affect our results of operations. such changes may result in contracts being terminated or work being transferred on-shore, resulting in greater costs to us. in addition, these changes could have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future work from government clients. our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. although we report our results of operations in u.s. dollars, a majority of our net revenues is denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. for example, the uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain european countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations and the related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, operations in that country or in europe generally may be adversely affected. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues, expenses and income, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. therefore, changes in the value of the u.s. dollar against other currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and the value of balance-sheet items, including intercompany payables and receivables, originally denominated in other currencies. these changes cause our growth in consolidated earnings stated in u.s. dollars to be higher or lower than our growth in local currency when compared against other periods. our currency hedging program, which is designed to partially offset the impact on consolidated earnings related to the changes in value of certain balance sheet items, might not be successful. as we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related services. an increase in the value of certain currencies, such as the indian rupee, against the u.s. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at off-shore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local currency. our contractual provisions or cost management efforts might not be able to offset their impact, and our currency hedging activities, which are designed to partially offset this impact, might not be successful. this could result in a decrease in the profitability of our contracts that are utilizing delivery center resources. in addition, our currency hedging activities are themselves subject to risk. these include risks related to counterparty performance under hedging contracts and risks related to currency fluctuations. we also face risks that extreme economic conditions, political instability, or hostilities or disasters of the type described above could impact or perhaps eliminate the underlying exposures that we are hedging. such an event could lead to losses being recognized on the currency hedges then in place that are not offset by anticipated changes in the underlying hedge exposure. our global delivery network is increasingly concentrated in india and the philippines, which may expose us to operational risks. our business model is dependent on our global delivery network, which includes accenture personnel based at more than 50 delivery centers around the world. while these delivery centers are located throughout the world, we have based large portions of our delivery network in india, where we have the largest number of people in our delivery network located, and the philippines, where we have the second largest number of people located. concentrating our global delivery network in these locations presents a number of operational risks, many of which are beyond our control. for example, natural disasters of the type described above, some of which india and the philippines have experienced and other countries may experience, could impair the ability of our people to safely travel to and work in our facilities and disrupt our ability to perform work through our delivery centers. additionally, both the philippines and india have experienced, and other countries may experience, political instability and worker strikes. india in particular has experienced civil unrest and hostilities with neighboring countries, including pakistan. military activity or civil hostilities in the future, as well as terrorist activities and other conditions, which are described more fully above, could significantly disrupt our ability to perform work through our delivery centers. our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be effective, particularly if catastrophic events occur. if any of these circumstances occurs, we have a greater risk that the interruptions in communications with our clients and other accenture locations and personnel, and any down-time in important processes we operate for clients, could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation in the marketplace. our results of operations could materially suffer if we are not able to obtain sufficient pricing to enable us to meet our profitability expectations. if we are not able to obtain sufficient pricing for our services, our revenues and profitability could materially suffer. the rates we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including: • general economic and political conditions; • the competitive environment in our industry, as described below; • our clients’ desire to reduce their costs; 15 table of contents • our ability to accurately estimate, attain and sustain contract revenues, margins and cash flows over the full contract period, which includes our ability to estimate the impact of inflation and foreign exchange on our margins over long-term contracts; and • procurement practices of clients and their use of third-party advisors. the competitive environment in our industry affects our ability to obtain favorable pricing in a number of ways, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. the less we are able to differentiate our services and solutions and/or clearly convey the value of our services and solutions, the more risk we have that they will be seen as commodities, with price being the driving factor in selecting a service provider. in addition, the introduction of new services or products by competitors could reduce our ability to obtain favorable pricing for the services or products we offer. competitors may be willing, at times, to price contracts lower than us in an effort to enter the market or increase market share. further, if competitors develop and implement methodologies that yield greater efficiency and productivity, they may be better positioned to offer services similar to ours at lower prices. if our pricing estimates do not accurately anticipate the cost, risk and complexity of performing our work or third parties upon whom we rely do not meet their commitments, then our contracts could have delivery inefficiencies and be unprofitable. our pricing for our services and solutions is highly dependent on our forecasts and predictions about the level of effort and cost necessary to deliver such services and solutions, which might be based on limited data and could turn out to be materially inaccurate. if we do not accurately estimate the effort, costs or timing for meeting our contractual commitments and/or completing projects to a client’s satisfaction, our contracts could yield lower profit margins than planned, or be unprofitable. our pricing, cost and profit margin estimates on our consulting work and frequently on our outsourcing work, include anticipated long-term cost savings for the client that we expect to achieve and sustain over the life of the contract. we may fail to accurately assess the risks associated with potential contracts. this could result in existing contracts and contracts entered into in the future being less profitable than expected or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. if we experience unanticipated delivery difficulties due to our management, the failure of third parties to meet their commitments, or for any other reason, our contracts could yield lower profit margins than planned or be unprofitable. in particular, large and complex arrangements often require that we utilize subcontractors or that our services and solutions incorporate or coordinate with the software, systems or infrastructure requirements of other vendors and service providers, including companies with which we have alliances. our profitability depends on the ability of these subcontractors, vendors and service providers to deliver their products and services in a timely manner and in accordance with the project requirements, as well as on our effective oversight of their performance. some of this work involves new technologies, which may not work as intended or may take more effort to implement than initially predicted. in some cases, these subcontractors are small firms, and they might not have the resources or experience to successfully integrate their services or products with large-scale projects or enterprises. in addition, certain client work requires the use of unique and complex structures and alliances, some of which require us to assume responsibility for the performance of third parties whom we do not control. any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to perform and subject us to additional liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on relationships with our clients and on our results of operations. our work with government clients exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment. our clients include national, provincial, state and local governmental entities. our government work carries various risks inherent in the government contracting process. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • government entities, particularly in the united states, often reserve the right to audit our contract costs and conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to government contracts. u.s. government agencies, including the defense contract audit agency, routinely audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs and compliance with the cost accounting standards. these agencies also conduct reviews and investigations and make inquiries regarding our accounting and other systems in connection with our performance and business practices with respect to our government contracts. negative findings from existing and future audits, investigations or inquiries could affect our future sales and profitability by preventing us, by operation of law or in practice, from receiving new government contracts for some period of time. in addition, if the u.s. government concludes that certain costs are not reimbursable, have not been properly determined or are based on outdated estimates of our work, then we will not be allowed to bill for such costs, may have to refund money that has already been paid to us, or could be required to retroactively and prospectively adjust previously agreed to billing or pricing rates for our work. negative findings from existing and future audits of our business systems, including our accounting system, may result in the u.s. government preventing us from billing, at least temporarily, a percentage of our costs. as a result of prior negative findings in connection with audits, investigations and inquiries, we have from time to time experienced some of the adverse consequences described above, and may in the future experience adverse consequences, which could materially adversely affect our future results of operations. 16 table of contents • if a government client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and criminal penalties, including those under the civil u.s. false claims act, and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of that government. the inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities. • u.s. government contracting regulations impose strict compliance and disclosure obligations. disclosure is required if certain company personnel have knowledge of “credible evidence” of a violation of federal criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery or improper gratuity, a violation of the civil u.s. false claims act or receipt of a significant overpayment from the government. failure to make required disclosures could be a basis for suspension and/or debarment from federal government contracting in addition to breach of the specific contract and could also impact contracting beyond the u.s. federal level. reported matters also could lead to audits or investigations and other civil, criminal or administrative sanctions. • government contracts are subject to heightened reputational and contractual risks compared to contracts with commercial clients. for example, government contracts and the proceedings surrounding them are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity. negative publicity, including an allegation of improper or illegal activity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation. • terms and conditions of government contracts also tend to be more onerous and are often more difficult to negotiate. for example, these contracts often contain high or unlimited liability for breaches and feature less favorable payment terms and sometimes require us to take on liability for the performance of third parties. • government entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. while these projects are often planned and executed as multi-year projects, government entities usually reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects for lack of approved funding and/or at their convenience. changes in government or political developments, including budget deficits, shortfalls or uncertainties, government spending reductions (e.g., congressional sequestration of funds under the budget control act of 2011) or other debt constraints, such as those recently experienced in the united states and europe, could result in our projects being reduced in price or scope or terminated altogether, which also could limit our recovery of incurred costs, reimbursable expenses and profits on work completed prior to the termination. furthermore, if insufficient funding is appropriated to the government entity to cover termination costs, we may not be able to fully recover our investments. • political and economic factors such as pending elections, the outcome of recent elections, changes in leadership among key executive or legislative decision makers, revisions to governmental tax or other policies and reduced tax revenues can affect the number and terms of new government contracts signed or the speed at which new contracts are signed, decrease future levels of spending and authorizations for programs that we bid, shift spending priorities to programs in areas for which we do not provide services and/or lead to changes in enforcement or how compliance with relevant rules or laws is assessed.      • legislative proposals remain under consideration or could be proposed in the future, which, if enacted, could limit or even prohibit our eligibility to be awarded state or federal government contracts in the united states in the future. various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced and/or enacted in recent years that deny government contracts to certain u.s. companies that reincorporate or have reincorporated outside the united states. while accenture was not a u.s. company that reincorporated outside the united states, it is possible that these contract bans and other legislative proposals could be applied in a way to negatively affect accenture. the occurrences or conditions described above could affect not only our business with the particular government entities involved, but also our business with other entities of the same or other governmental bodies or with certain commercial clients, and could have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations. our business could be materially adversely affected if we incur legal liability in connection with providing our services and solutions. we could be subject to significant legal liability and litigation expense if we fail to meet our contractual obligations, or otherwise breach obligations, to third parties, including clients, alliance partners, employees and former employees, and other parties with whom we conduct business, or if our subcontractors breach or dispute the terms of our agreements with them and impede our ability to meet our obligations to our clients. we may enter into agreements with non-standard terms because we perceive an important economic opportunity or because our personnel did not adequately follow our contracting guidelines. in addition, the contracting practices of competitors, along with the demands of increasingly sophisticated clients, may cause contract terms and conditions that are unfavorable to us to become new standards in the marketplace. we may find ourselves committed to providing services or solutions that we are unable to deliver or whose delivery will reduce our profitability or cause us financial loss. if we cannot or do not meet our contractual obligations and if our potential liability is not adequately limited through the terms of our agreements, liability limitations are not enforced or a third party alleges fraud or other wrongdoing to prevent us from 17 table of contents relying upon those contractual protections, we might face significant legal liability and litigation expense and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. a failure of a client’s system based on our services or solutions could also subject us to a claim for significant damages that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. in addition to expense, litigation can be lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and litigation results can be unpredictable. while we maintain insurance for certain potential liabilities, such insurance does not cover all types and amounts of potential liabilities and is subject to various exclusions as well as caps on amounts recoverable. even if we believe a claim is covered by insurance, insurers may dispute our entitlement to recovery for a variety of potential reasons, which may affect the timing and, if they prevail, the amount of our recovery. our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if we cannot adapt and expand our services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings by new entrants. our success depends on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology and industry developments and offerings by new entrants to serve the evolving needs of our clients. current areas of significant change include mobility, cloud-based computing and the processing and analyzing of large amounts of data. technological developments such as these may materially affect the cost and use of technology by our clients. our growth strategy focuses on responding to these types of developments by driving innovation for our core business as well as through new business initiatives beyond our core business that will enable us to differentiate our services and solutions. if we do not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, or if we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments and successfully drive innovation, our services and solutions, our results of operations, and our ability to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and continue to grow could be negatively affected. in addition, we operate in a quickly evolving environment, in which there currently are, and we expect will continue to be, new technology entrants. new services or technologies offered by competitors or new entrants may make our offerings less differentiated or less competitive, when compared to other alternatives, which may adversely affect our results of operations. our alliance relationships may not be successful or may change, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  we have alliances with companies whose capabilities complement our own. a very significant portion of our services and solutions are based on technology or software provided by a few major providers that are our alliance partners. see “business—alliances.” the priorities and objectives of our alliance partners may differ from ours. as most of our alliance relationships are non-exclusive, our alliance partners are not prohibited from competing with us or forming closer or preferred arrangements with our competitors. one or more of our key alliance partners may be acquired by a competitor, or key alliances partners might merge with each other, either of which could reduce our access over time to the technology or software provided by those partners. if we do not obtain the expected benefits from our alliance relationships for any reason, we may be less competitive, our ability to offer attractive solutions to our clients may be negatively affected, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. outsourcing services and the continued expansion of our other services and solutions into new areas subject us to different operational risks than our consulting and systems integration services. outsourcing services, which represented approximately 44% of our net revenues in fiscal 2012, present different operational risks, when compared to our consulting and systems integration services. our outsourcing services involve taking over the operation of certain portions of our clients’ businesses, which may include the operation of functions that are critical to the core businesses of our clients. disruptions in service or other performance problems could damage our clients’ businesses, expose us to claims, and harm our reputation and our business. we have continued to expand our services and solutions into new business areas, and we expect to continue to expand our services and solutions in these and other new areas in the future. expanding into new areas may expose us to additional regulatory or other risks specific to these new areas. we could also incur liability for failure to comply with laws or regulations applicable to the services we provide clients. we may also face exposure in our outsourcing business if we contribute to internal controls issues of a client. if a process we manage for a client were to result in internal controls failures at the client or impair our client’s ability to comply with its own internal control requirements, there is a risk that we could face legal liability. many of our clients request that we obtain an audit under statement on standards for attestation engagements no. 16 and international standard on assurance engagements 3402, formerly referred to as sas 70. if we receive a qualified opinion, or do not deliver the audit reports timely, our ability to acquire new clients and retain existing clients may be adversely affected and our reputation could be harmed. our services or solutions could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others or we might lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others. we cannot be sure that our services and solutions, including, for example, our software solutions, or the solutions of others that we offer to our clients, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and these third parties could claim that we or our clients are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. these claims could harm our reputation, cost us money 18 table of contents or prevent us from offering some services or solutions. any related proceedings could require us to expend significant time and effort over an extended period of time. in most of our contracts, we agree to indemnify our clients for expenses and liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of the intellectual property rights of third parties. in some instances, the amount of these indemnities could be greater than the revenues we receive from the client. any claims or litigation in this area could be time-consuming and costly, injure our reputation and/or require us to incur additional costs to obtain the right to continue to offer a service or solution to our clients. if we cannot secure this right at all or on reasonable terms, or we cannot substitute alternative technology, our operations could be materially adversely affected. the risk of infringement claims against us may increase as we expand our industry software solutions and continue to develop and license our software to multiple clients. additionally, individuals and firms have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies. if a claim of infringement were successful against us or our clients, an injunction might be ordered against our client or our own services or operations, causing further damages. we could lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others. third-party suppliers of software, hardware or other intellectual assets could be acquired or sued, and this could disrupt use of their products or services by accenture and our clients. if our ability to provide services and solutions to our clients is impaired, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and other intellectual property. existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights, and the protection in some countries may be very limited. we rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. these laws are subject to change at any time and could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative of ours. further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money and oversight and we may not be successful in enforcing our rights. depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific client greater rights in intellectual property developed in connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. in certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other clients. any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop new or modified solutions for future projects. our ability to attract and retain business and employees may depend on our reputation in the marketplace. we believe the accenture brand name and our reputation are important corporate assets that help distinguish our services from those of competitors and also contribute to our efforts to recruit and retain talented employees. however, our corporate reputation is potentially susceptible to material damage by events such as disputes with clients, information technology security breaches or service outages, internal control deficiencies or delivery failures. similarly, our reputation could be damaged by actions or statements of current or former clients, directors, employees, competitors, vendors, alliance partners, our joint ventures or joint venture partners, adversaries in legal proceedings or government regulators, as well as members of the investment community or the media. there is a risk that negative information about accenture, even if based on rumor or misunderstanding, could adversely affect our business. damage to our reputation could be difficult and time-consuming to repair, could make potential or existing clients reluctant to select us for new engagements, resulting in a loss of business, and could adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts. damage to our reputation could also reduce the value and effectiveness of the accenture brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us, materially adversely affecting our share price. we might not be successful at identifying, acquiring or integrating businesses or entering into joint ventures. we expect to continue pursuing strategic and targeted acquisitions and joint ventures intended to enhance or add to our offerings of services and solutions, or to enable us to expand in certain geographic and other markets. depending on the opportunities available, we may increase the amount of investment in such acquisitions or joint ventures. we may not successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or joint venture opportunities. we also might not succeed in completing targeted transactions or achieve desired results of operations. furthermore, we face risks in successfully integrating any businesses we might acquire or create through a joint venture. ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities. in addition, we might need to dedicate additional management and other resources, and our organizational structure could make it difficult for us to efficiently integrate acquired businesses into our ongoing operations and assimilate and retain employees of those businesses into our culture and operations. we may have difficulties as a result of entering into new markets where we have limited or no direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions. 19 table of contents we might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any acquisition or joint venture we undertake. we might not achieve our expected return on investment, or may lose money. we may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume from a company we acquire or in which we invest, including from that company’s known and unknown obligations, intellectual property or other assets, terminated employees, current or former clients, or other third parties, and may fail to identify or adequately assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring, investing in or partnering with a company, which could result in unexpected legal or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes or other adverse effects on our business. by their nature, joint ventures involve a lesser degree of control over the business operations of the joint venture itself, particularly when we have a minority position. this lesser degree of control may expose us to additional financial, legal, compliance or operational risks. if we are unable to complete the number and kind of acquisitions or joint ventures for which we plan, or if we are inefficient or unsuccessful at integrating any acquired businesses into our operations, we may not be able to achieve our planned rates of growth or improve our market share, profitability or competitive position in specific markets or services. our profitability could suffer if our cost-management strategies are unsuccessful, and we may not be able to improve our profitability through improvements to cost-management to the degree we have done in the past. our ability to improve or maintain our profitability is dependent on our being able to successfully manage our costs. our cost management strategies include maintaining appropriate alignment between the demand for our services and our resource capacity, optimizing the costs of service delivery and maintaining or improving our sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues. we have also taken actions to reduce certain costs, and these initiatives include, without limitation, global consolidation of our office space and re-alignment of portions of our non-client-facing workforce to lower-cost locations. these actions and our other cost-management efforts may not be successful, our efficiency may not be enhanced and we may not achieve desired levels of profitability. over time, we have seen an improvement in general and administrative costs. because of the significant steps taken in the past to reduce costs, we may not be able to continue to deliver efficiencies in our cost management, to the same degree as in the past. if we are not effective in reducing our operating costs in response to changes in demand or pricing, or if we are unable to absorb or pass on increases in the compensation of our employees by continuing to move more work to lower-cost locations or otherwise, our margins and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. many of our contracts include payments that link some of our fees to the attainment of performance or business targets and/or require us to meet specific service levels. this could increase the variability of our revenues and impact our margins. many of our contracts include clauses that tie our compensation to the achievement of agreed-upon performance standards or milestones. if we fail to satisfy these measures, it could significantly reduce or eliminate our fees under the contracts, increase the cost to us of meeting performance standards or milestones, delay expected payments or subject us to potential damage claims under the contract terms. clients also often have the right to terminate a contract and pursue damage claims under the contract for serious or repeated failure to meet these service commitments. we also have a number of contracts, in both outsourcing and consulting, in which a portion of our compensation depends on performance measures such as cost-savings, revenue enhancement, benefits produced, business goals attained and adherence to schedule. these goals can be complex and may depend on our clients’ actual levels of business activity or may be based on assumptions that are later determined not to be achievable or accurate. these provisions could increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on those contracts. changes in our level of taxes, and audits, investigations and tax proceedings, or changes in our treatment as an irish company, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. we calculate and provide for income taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. tax accounting often involves complex matters and requires our judgment to determine our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with our judgments, or may take increasingly aggressive positions opposing the judgments we make. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of our audits to determine the appropriateness of our tax liabilities. however, our judgments might not be sustained as a result of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate may change as a result of macroeconomic or other factors outside of our control. increases in the tax rate in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a negative impact on our profitability. in addition, changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may be unpredictable, particularly in less developed markets, and could become more stringent, which could materially adversely affect our tax position. any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. although we expect to be able to rely on the tax treaty between the united states and ireland, legislative or diplomatic action could be taken that would prevent us from being able to rely on such treaty. our inability to rely on such treaty would subject us to increased taxation or significant additional expense. congressional proposals could change the definition of a u.s. person for 20 table of contents u.s. federal income tax purposes, which could subject us to increased taxation. in addition, we could be materially adversely affected by future changes in tax law or policy in ireland or other jurisdictions where we operate, including their treaties with ireland or the united states. these changes could be exacerbated by economic, budget or other challenges facing ireland or these other jurisdictions. if we are unable to manage the organizational challenges associated with our size, we might be unable to achieve our business objectives. as of august 31, 2012, we had approximately 257,000 employees worldwide. our size and scale present significant management and organizational challenges. it might become increasingly difficult to maintain effective standards across a large enterprise and effectively institutionalize our knowledge. it might also become more difficult to maintain our culture, effectively manage and monitor our personnel and operations and effectively communicate our core values, policies and procedures, strategies and goals, particularly given our world-wide operations. finally, the size and scope of our operations increase the possibility that we will have employees who engage in unlawful or fraudulent activity, or otherwise expose us to unacceptable business risks, despite our efforts to train them and maintain internal controls to prevent such instances. for example, the inappropriate use of social networking sites by our employees could result in breaches of confidentiality, unauthorized disclosure of non-public company information or damage to our reputation. if we do not continue to develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our enterprise and instill our culture and core values into all of our employees, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired. if we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. we evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. in limited circumstances, we also extend financing to our clients. we have established allowances for losses of receivables and unbilled services. actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and as a result we might need to adjust our allowances. we might not accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, including bankruptcy and insolvency. this could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. in addition, in certain geographies and industries, some clients have requested extended payment terms more frequently, and if this trend continues, our cash flows could be adversely affected. recovery of client financing and timely collection of client balances also depend on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. if we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. our share price and results of operations could fluctuate and be difficult to predict. our share price has fluctuated in the past and could continue to fluctuate in the future in response to various factors. these factors include: • changes in macroeconomic or political factors unrelated to our business; • general or industry-specific market conditions or changes in financial markets; • announcements by us or competitors about developments in our business or prospects; • projections or speculation about our business or that of competitors by the media or investment analysts; • our ability to generate enough free cash flow to return cash to our shareholders at historical levels or levels expected by our shareholders; and • our failure to meet our growth and financial objectives, including with respect to our overall revenue growth and revenue growth for our priority emerging markets and earnings per share growth. our results of operations have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future, making them difficult to predict. some of the factors that could cause our results of operations to vary include: • the business decisions of our clients to begin to curtail or reduce the use of our services, including in response to changes in macroeconomic or political conditions unrelated to our business or general market conditions; • periodic differences between our clients’ estimated and actual levels of business activity associated with ongoing work, as well as the stage of completion of existing projects and/or their termination or restructuring; • contract delivery inefficiencies, such as those due to poor delivery or changes in forecasts; 21 table of contents • our ability to transition employees quickly from completed to new projects and maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our workforces; • acquisition, integration and operational costs related to businesses acquired; • the introduction of new products or services by us, competitors or alliance partners; • changes in our pricing or competitors’ pricing; • our ability to manage costs, including those for our own or subcontracted personnel, travel, support services and severance; • our ability to limit and manage the incurrence of pre-contract costs, which must be expensed without corresponding revenues, which are then recognized in later periods without the corresponding costs; • changes in, or the application of changes in, accounting principles or pronouncements under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, particularly those related to revenue recognition; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • changes in estimates, accruals or payments of variable compensation to our employees; • global, regional and local economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and • seasonality, including number of workdays and holiday and summer vacations. as a result of any of the above factors, or any of the other risks described in this item 1a, “risk factors,” our share price could be difficult to predict, and our share price in the past might not be a good indicator of the price of our shares in the future. in addition, if litigation is instituted against us following declines in our share price, we might need to devote substantial time and resources to responding to the litigation, and our share price could be materially adversely affected. our results of operations and share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls. the accuracy of our financial reporting is dependent on the effectiveness of our internal controls. we are required to provide a report from management to our shareholders on our internal control over financial reporting that includes an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls. internal control over financial reporting has inherent limitations, including human error, the possibility that controls could be circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions, and fraud. because of these inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting might not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. if we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or implement required new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we could suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, be unable to properly report on our business and our results of operations, or be required to restate our financial statements, and our results of operations, the market price of our securities and our ability to obtain new business could be materially adversely affected. we are incorporated in ireland and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the united states. as a result, it might not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the united states. we may also be subject to criticism and negative publicity related to our incorporation in ireland. we are organized under the laws of ireland, and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the united states. a shareholder who obtains a court judgment based on the civil liability provisions of u.s. federal or state securities laws may be unable to enforce the judgment against us in ireland or in countries other than the united states where we have assets. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of ireland and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the united states or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and ireland do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the laws of ireland do, however, as a general rule, provide that the judgments of the courts of the united states have the same validity in ireland as if rendered by irish courts. certain important requirements must be satisfied before the irish courts will recognize the u.s. judgment. the originating court must have been a court of competent jurisdiction and the judgment may not be recognized if it was obtained by fraud or its recognition would be contrary to irish public policy. any judgment obtained in contravention of the rules of natural justice or that is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment would not be enforced in ireland. similarly, judgments might not be enforceable in countries other than the united states where we have assets. some companies that conduct substantial business in the united states but which have a parent domiciled in certain other jurisdictions have been criticized as improperly avoiding u.s. taxes or creating an unfair competitive advantage over other u.s. companies. accenture never conducted business under a u.s. parent company and pays u.s. taxes on all of its u.s. operations. nonetheless, we could be subject to criticism in connection with our incorporation in ireland. 22 table of contents irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and might afford less protection to shareholders. our shareholders could have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. as an irish company, we are governed by the companies acts 1963 to 2012 of ireland (the “companies acts”). the companies acts differ in some significant, and possibly material, respects from laws applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders under various state corporation laws, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. under irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company under irish law, and may only do so in limited circumstances. directors of an irish company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act with due care and skill, honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company. directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests might conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any contract or arrangement with the company or any of its subsidiaries. if a director or officer of an irish company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he could be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. we might be unable to access additional capital on favorable terms or at all. if we raise equity capital, it may dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest in us. we might choose to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: • take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion; • acquire other businesses or assets; • repurchase shares from our shareholders; • develop new services and solutions; or • respond to competitive pressures. any additional capital raised through the sale of equity could dilute shareholders’ ownership percentage in us. furthermore, any additional financing we need might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. item 1b.    unresolved