item 1a. risk factors the risks and uncertainties described below are those which we consider material and of which we are currently aware. in addition, this annual report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. you should carefully read the section “cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements”. if any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could materially decline. risks relating to our business our strategic shift to an online advertising-supported business model involves significant risks. following our strategic shift in 2006 from focusing primarily on generating subscription revenues to focusing primarily on attracting and engaging internet consumers and generating advertising revenues, we have become increasingly dependent on advertising revenues as our subscription revenues continue to decline. we have not been able to generate sufficient growth in our advertising revenues to offset the loss of subscription revenues we have experienced in recent years. in order for us to increase advertising revenues in the future, we believe it will be important to increase our overall volume of advertising sold, including sales of advertising through our higher-priced channels, and to maintain or increase pricing for advertising. our cash flows over the next several years will be adversely affected by the continued decline of access subscribers. additionally, advertising revenues are more unpredictable and variable than our subscription revenues, and are more likely to be adversely affected during economic downturns, as spending by advertisers tends to be cyclical in line with general economic conditions. further, because subscription revenues have relatively low direct costs, the expected decline in subscription revenues will likely result in declines in operating income and cash flows for the foreseeable future, even if we achieve significant growth in advertising revenues. if we are unable to successfully implement our strategic plan and grow the earnings generated by our online advertising services, we may not be able to support our business in the future. accordingly, we have recently implemented several restructuring plans to better align our organizational structure and costs with our strategy. we expect to continue to actively manage our costs. however, if we do not fully realize or maintain the anticipated benefits of our restructuring plans and cost reduction initiatives, our business could be adversely affected. if we do not continue to develop and offer compelling content, products and services, our ability to attract new consumers or maintain the engagement of our existing consumers could be adversely affected. in order to attract consumers and generate increased engagement on aol properties, we believe we must offer compelling content, products and services. however, acquiring, developing and offering new content, products and services, as well as new functionality, features and enhanced performance of our existing content, products and services, may require significant costs and time to develop. in addition, consumer tastes are difficult to predict and subject to rapid change. if we are unable to provide content, products and services that are sufficiently attractive and relevant to consumers (including subscribers to our subscription access service), we may not be able to attract new consumers or maintain or increase our existing consumers’ engagement. even if we successfully develop and offer compelling content, products and services, we may not be able to attract new consumers and maintain or increase our existing consumers’ engagement. we may acquire businesses in order to produce and offer new content, products and services, and the costs related to such acquisitions may be more expensive than developing new content, products and services internally. in general, subscribers to our subscription access service are among the most engaged consumers on aol properties, primarily related to search. as our subscriber base declines, we need to maintain the engagement of   16 table of contents former subscribers and increase the number and engagement of other consumers on aol properties in order to successfully execute our business model. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the engagement of former subscribers or attract and engage sufficient other consumers to sustain or increase historical engagement levels on aol properties. if we cannot do so, our business could be adversely affected. even if we are able to attract new consumers to, and generate increased engagement on, aol properties, we may not be able to maintain or increase our advertising revenues associated with aol properties. different aol properties generate varying volumes of advertising that are sold at a range of prices. to the extent our consumers are active on aol properties where we do not deliver a high volume of advertisements or high-priced advertisements, we are limited in our ability to generate advertising revenues from such activity. accordingly, if we are not able to attract and engage consumers to those aol properties that typically generate higher-priced and higher-volume advertising, our advertising revenues may not increase even if the aggregate number of consumers on aol properties increases and their aggregate engagement increases. if we are unable to develop our products and services to address the patterns of how consumers access information and communicate on the internet through media such as social networking, our business could be adversely impacted. as the internet continues to grow and evolve, consumers are also changing the way they access and use the internet. consumers are increasingly using social networking sites to communicate and to acquire and disseminate information rather than through traditional means of instant messaging, electronic mail and portals. as consumers migrate towards social networks, we seek to build social elements into our content, products and services in order to make them available on social networks and to attract and engage consumers on our properties. there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate our content with such social networking trends. in addition, companies are increasing marketing and advertising on social networks, and if we are unable to penetrate this market it could adversely affect our business. any restructuring actions that we undertake may not deliver the expected results and these actions may adversely affect our business operations. we may undertake various restructuring activities in an effort to better align our organizational structure and costs with our strategy. these restructuring activities may not deliver the expected results as there is no guarantee that we will recognize the benefits of these restructuring activities. in connection with such activities, we may experience a disruption in our ability to perform functions critical to our strategy. while we strive to reduce the negative impact of such restructuring actions, such actions could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of our strategic objectives and the results of our operations. we face intense competition in all aspects of our business. the internet industry, with its low barriers to entry and rapidly shifting consumer tastes, is dynamic and rapidly evolving. new and popular competitors, such as social networking sites, online advertising businesses and providers of communication tools, quickly emerge. competition among companies offering content, advertising products, technology and services, demand-side platforms and aggregators of third-party products and services, is intense. competitors are providing more free products and services, for example, data storage, that may require substantial expenditures by us in order to offer comparable products and services. internationally, we face intense competition from both global and local competitors. in addition, competition may generally cause us to incur unanticipated costs associated with research and product development. the competition faced by our subscription access service, especially from broadband internet access providers, could cause the number of our subscribers to decline at a faster rate than experienced in the past.   17 table of contents dial-up internet access services do not compete favorably with broadband access services with respect to connection speed and do not have a significant, if any, price advantage over certain broadband services. many broadband providers, including cable companies, bundle their offerings with telephone, entertainment or other services, which may result in lower prices than stand-alone services. based on customer survey information, the majority of our canceling access subscribers either already had broadband internet connections or are leaving for broadband internet connections. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future with existing or potential competitors or that competition will not adversely affect our business. weak economic conditions could adversely affect our revenues. advertising businesses may be adversely affected by weak economic conditions. because we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the sale of advertising, declines and delays in advertising spending that result from weak economic conditions have impacted our advertising revenues in the past and could adversely affect our advertising revenues in the future. additionally, declines in consumer spending due to weak economic conditions may cause advertisers to reduce their spending if consumers are purchasing fewer of their products or services, ultimately resulting in downward pricing pressure on our advertising inventory. as a result, declines in consumer spending could indirectly adversely affect our advertising revenues. while we do not believe that our subscription access service was adversely affected by past weak economic conditions, there is a risk that subscribers may elect to cancel their subscriptions as a result of a weaker economic climate in the future. should this occur, we may experience an accelerated decline in our subscription revenues. demand and pricing for, and volume sold of, online advertising may face downward pressure which could adversely affect our advertising revenues. in order for us to maintain or increase advertising revenues in the future, we believe it will be important to increase our overall volume of advertising sold, including sales of advertising through our higher-priced channels, and to maintain or increase pricing for advertising. if overall demand or pricing declines occur, our advertising revenues could be adversely affected. we are dependent on a third-party search provider. we do not own or control a general text-based web search service. instead, google is, except in certain limited circumstances, the exclusive web search provider for aol properties. for the year ended december 31, 2010, search and contextual advertising revenues comprised approximately 33% of our total advertising revenues. changes that google has made and may unilaterally make in the future to its search service or advertising network, including changes in pricing, algorithms or advertising relationships, could adversely affect our advertising revenues. furthermore, except in certain limited circumstances, we have agreed to use google’s algorithmic search and sponsored links on an exclusive basis in the united states through december 31, 2015. because we do not own or control such a search service, we are not able to package and sell search advertising along with display advertising services outside of aol properties. as search advertising represents a significant portion of online advertising spending, we believe that our lack of a proprietary search service could adversely affect our ability to maintain and increase advertising revenues. we may need to raise additional capital, and we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available. while subsequent to our separation from time warner we have funded our ongoing working capital, capital expenditure and financing requirements through cash flows from operations and asset dispositions, we may require additional financing in the future. our ability to obtain future financing will depend on, among other   18 table of contents things, our financial condition and results of operations as well as the condition of the capital markets or other credit markets at the time we seek financing. we currently do not have any ratings from the credit rating agencies, so our access to capital markets may be limited. we may not be able to obtain future financing on terms acceptable to us in a timely manner, or at all. our ability to fund our working capital, capital expenditure and financing requirements in the future may be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms. we terminated our 364-day $250.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “revolving credit facility”) during 2010 and our ability to access short-term borrowings from commercial banks could be at risk without our revolving credit facility. if we are unable to enter into the necessary financing arrangements or sufficient funds are not available on acceptable terms when required, we may not have sufficient liquidity and our business may be adversely affected. if we cannot make our content, products and services available and attractive to consumers via devices other than personal computers, our ability to attract consumers and maintain or increase their engagement could be adversely affected. global consumers are increasingly accessing and using the internet through devices other than personal computers, such as smartphones and tablet computers. in order for consumers to access and use our content, products and services via these devices, we must ensure that our content, products and services are compatible with such devices. we may also need to secure arrangements with device manufacturers and wireless carriers in order to have placement on these devices. even if we can secure placement of our products and services on the devices, our ability to generate revenues depends upon our ability to negotiate favorable payment terms. if and as consumer pricing with the carriers changes or otherwise, aol’s ability to negotiate favorable payment terms and its ability to earn revenues may be adversely impacted. we must also ensure that our licensing arrangements with third-party content providers allow us to make this content available on these devices. these factors are also important with respect to aol’s ability to sell applications to consumers via alternative devices, and thus to generate revenues other than subscription or advertising revenues. currently we offer applications directly to consumers for download from aol properties, the apple apps store, or through other distribution channels. we also offer certain applications, and access to its content, products and services by means of agreements with wireless carriers and device manufacturers. to the extent that consumers are using our applications, content, products and services, we have opportunities to generate advertising revenues. however, the amount of revenues, including advertising revenues earned from such arrangements is currently small. also, business models in the marketplace seem to be undergoing experimentation and rapid change. to the extent that we cannot generate consumer awareness and adoption of our applications, content, products and services available on mobile devices, and cannot develop means of generating advertising revenues from consumer usage, our business could be adversely impacted. we rely on legacy technology infrastructure and a failure to update or replace this technology infrastructure could adversely affect our business. significant portions of our content, products and services are dependent on technology infrastructure that was developed a number of years ago. in addition, we incur significant costs operating our business with multiple and often contradictory technology platforms and infrastructure. updating and replacing our technology infrastructure may be challenging to implement and manage, may take time to test and deploy, may cause us to incur substantial costs and may cause us to suffer data loss or delays or interruptions in service. these delays or interruptions in service may cause our consumers, advertisers and publishers to become dissatisfied with our offerings and could adversely affect our business. our dependence on legacy technology infrastructure may also put us in a weaker position relative to a number of our key web services competitors. competitors with newer technology infrastructure may have greater flexibility and be in a position to respond more quickly than us to new opportunities, which could impact our competitive position in certain markets and adversely affect our business.   19 table of contents in addition, many of our employees with the necessary skills to maintain and repair our legacy technology infrastructure have either been reassigned within aol or are no longer with aol, and this may adversely impact our ability to effectively manage our legacy infrastructure. if we are unable to hire, engage and retain key management and other personnel, our business could be adversely affected. our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of key members of our management team. in particular, tim armstrong, our ceo, is critical to aol’s overall management, as well as the development of aol’s strategic direction and culture. we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. we are also dependent on our ability to hire, engage and retain talented, highly-skilled employees, including employees with specific areas of expertise such as content creation. accomplishing this may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, frequent changes in our management and leadership and the attractiveness of our compensation programs relative to those of our competitors. if we do not succeed in retaining and engaging our key employees and in attracting new key personnel, including personnel with specific areas of expertise, we may be unable to meet our strategic objectives and, as a result, our business could be adversely affected. a failure to scale and adapt our existing technology architecture to manage the expansion of our offerings could adversely affect our business. we expect to continue to expand our offerings to consumers, advertisers and publishers, whether through internal growth or through acquiring other companies or assets. expanding the amount and type of our offerings or integrating third-party technologies will require substantial expenditures to scale or adapt our technology infrastructure. the technology architectures utilized for our consumer offerings and advertising services are highly complex and may not provide satisfactory support as usage increases and products and services expand, change and become more complex in the future. we may make additional changes to our architectures and systems to deliver our consumer offerings and services to advertisers and publishers, including moving to completely new technology architectures and systems. such changes may be challenging to implement and manage, may take time to test and deploy, may cause us to incur substantial costs and may cause us to suffer data loss or delays or interruptions in service. these delays or interruptions in service may cause consumers, advertisers and publishers to become dissatisfied with our offerings and could adversely affect our business. certain parts of our business and operations are experiencing rapid expansion. if we fail to effectively manage our expansion, our business and operating results could be harmed. we have undertaken rapid expansion in certain parts of our business in 2010, in particular patch, growing from approximately 30 sites in january 2010 to 790 sites as of february 18, 2011. we also hired approximately 1,200 patch employees as of december 31, 2010. such expansion has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational, and financial infrastructure. if we do not continue to effectively manage our expansion, the quality of our products and services could suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and operating results. to effectively manage this expansion, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, including our reporting systems and compliance procedures. these systems enhancements and improvements may require significant capital expenditures and management resources. failure to implement these improvements could hurt our ability to manage our expansion and our financial position. one of the factors in the demand for our products and services is the success of our marketing campaigns, and there can be no assurance that our promotional and other marketing campaigns will be successful or will generate interest in our products and services. we spend money on sponsorships, promotional events, and other marketing campaigns in order to inform consumers about the products and services we offer. in addition, a core goal of our marketing efforts is to   20 table of contents maintain and enhance the image of our brand and consumer perception of it. if we are unable to effectively use our resources to market and affect the evolution to a more sought after and desired brand, consumer awareness of and interest in our products and services may decline, and our ability to grow our services and products could be negatively impacted. if we cannot effectively distribute our content, products and services, our ability to attract new consumers could be adversely affected. as the behavior of internet consumers continues to change, distribution of our content, products and services via traditional methods (e.g., toolbars) may become less effective, and new distribution strategies may need to be developed. even if we are able to distribute our content, products and services effectively, this does not assure that we will be able to attract new consumers. currently, an important distribution channel for aol properties is through our subscription access service. however, our access service subscriber base has declined and is expected to continue to decline. this continued decline is likely to reduce the effectiveness of our subscription access service as a distribution channel. if we are unable to grow organically by attracting new consumers directly to our content, products and services, we may need to rely on distribution channels that require us to pay significant fees to third parties. furthermore, these fees have been increasing as internet companies compete for a limited number of premium distribution channels. any increased reliance on these third-party distribution channels could adversely affect our business. if we cannot continue to develop and offer effective advertising products and services, our advertising revenues could be adversely affected. growth in our advertising revenues depends on our ability to continue offering effective products and services for advertisers and publishers. continuing to develop and improve these products and services may require significant time and costs. if we cannot continue to develop and improve our advertising products and services, our advertising revenues could be adversely affected. furthermore, if we cannot enhance our existing advertising offerings or develop new advertising offerings or technologies to keep pace with market trends, including new technologies that more effectively or efficiently plan, price or target advertising, our advertising revenues could be adversely affected. our access service subscriber base could decline faster than we currently anticipate. our access service subscriber base has declined and is expected to continue to decline. this decline is the result of several factors, including the increased availability of high-speed internet broadband connections, the fact that a significant amount of online content, products and services has been optimized for use with broadband internet connections and the effects of our strategic shift announced in 2006, which resulted in us essentially eliminating our marketing efforts for our subscription access service and the free availability of the vast majority of our content, products and services. also, a substantial number of the subscribers to our subscription access service do not use the service to access the internet on a regular basis and may terminate their subscription at any time. in addition, we must maintain the current payment method information of our subscribers and, if we fail to do so, we may lose paid relationships with some of our access subscribers. if any of these factors result in our access subscriber base declining faster than we currently anticipate, our subscription revenues and business could be adversely affected. a disruption or failure of our networks and information systems, the internet or other technology may disrupt our business. our business is heavily dependent on the availability of network and information systems, the internet and other technologies. shutdowns or service disruptions caused by events such as criminal activity, sabotage or espionage, computer viruses or hacking, router disruption, automated attacks such as denial of service attacks,   21 table of contents power outages, natural disasters, accidents, terrorism, equipment failure or other events within or outside our control could adversely affect us and our consumers, including loss or compromise of data, service disruption, damage to equipment and data and excessive call volume to call centers. furthermore, such attacks are not always able to be immediately detected, which means that we may not be in a position to promptly address the attacks or to implement adequate preventative measures. such events could result in large expenditures necessary to recover data, or repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. as not all of our systems are fully redundant, some data or systems might not be recoverable after such events. significant incidents could result in a disruption of our business, consumer dissatisfaction, damage to the aol brand, legal costs or liability, and a loss of consumers or revenues. we are dependent on third-party providers of telecommunications services. although we currently have agreements with several different third-party telecommunications service providers, there are only a limited number of such providers that are capable of providing our network services. to the extent that we cannot renew or extend our contracts with these providers on similar terms or to the extent that we cannot acquire similar network capacity from other providers on similar terms, the cost of obtaining network services may increase and our financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, because of the limited number of telecommunications services providers, in the event that a provider decides to exit the business of providing telecommunications services, our ability to maintain the geographic scope of these network services could be adversely affected. in such an event, certain consumers in the affected geographic areas would be unable to continue to use our subscription access service and our business could be adversely affected. if we cannot continue to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on patent, copyright, trademark, domain name and trade secret laws in the united states and similar laws in other countries, as well as licenses and other agreements with our employees, consumers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in the technology, content, products and services used in our operations. these laws and agreements may not guarantee that our intellectual property rights will be protected and our intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated. in addition, such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of offerings, decreased traffic and associated revenue or otherwise adversely affect our business. as we acquire and publish more original content, our intellectual property may be increasingly subject to misappropriation by others, and the costs to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights may increase. we have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims of intellectual property infringement or tort law violations that could adversely affect our business. periodically, third parties claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights. we expect to continue to be subject to claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of others. these claims, whether meritorious or not, are time-consuming and costly to resolve, and may require expensive changes in our methods of doing business and/or our content, products and services. these intellectual property infringement claims may require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms or to incur substantial monetary liability. additionally, these claims may result in our being enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of certain intellectual property and/or our content, products and services, or may require us to cease or significantly alter certain of our operations. the occurrence of any of these events as a result of these claims could result in substantially increased costs, could limit or reduce the number of our offerings to consumers, advertisers and publishers or otherwise adversely affect our business. some of our commercial agreements may require us to indemnify parties against intellectual property infringement claims, which may require us to use substantial resources to defend against or settle such claims or,   22 table of contents potentially, to pay damages. additionally, we may be exposed to liability or substantially increased costs if a commercial partner does not honor its contractual obligation to indemnify us for intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. the occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business. as a publisher of original content, we also face risks of periodic tort claims such as libel, defamation or improper use of publicity rights in the course of our journalism and news reporting endeavors, as well as infringement claims such as plagiarism. these claims, whether or not they have merit, may be time consuming or costly to resolve. the misappropriation, release, loss or misuse of aol data or consumer or other data could adversely affect our business. our business utilizes significant amounts of data about our business, consumers and our advertising and publishing partners in order to deliver our content, products and services and our advertising solutions. the misappropriation, release, loss or misuse of this data, whether by accident, omission or as the result of criminal activity, sabotage or espionage, computer hacking or viruses, natural disasters, terrorism, equipment failure or other events, could lead to negative publicity, harm to our reputation, customer dissatisfaction, regulatory enforcement actions or individual or class-action lawsuits or significant expenditures to recover the data or protect data from similar releases in the future, and may otherwise adversely affect our business. furthermore, as not all of our systems are fully redundant, some data or systems might not be recoverable in a catastrophic event or other significant service disruption. changes to federal, state or international laws or regulations applicable to our business could adversely affect our business. our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations, including those with respect to privacy, advertising generally, consumer protection, content regulation, intellectual property, defamation, child protection, advertising to and collecting information from children, taxation, employment classification and billing. these laws and regulations and the interpretation or application of these laws and regulations could change. in addition, new laws or regulations affecting our business could be enacted. these laws and regulations are frequently costly to comply with and may divert a significant portion of management’s attention. if we fail to comply with these applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant liabilities which could adversely affect our business. there are many federal, state and international laws that may affect our business including measures to regulate consumer privacy, the use of copyrighted material, the collection of certain data, network neutrality, patent litigation, cyber security, child protection, subpoena and warrant processes, employee classification and others. in addition, most states have enacted legislation governing the breach of data security in which sensitive consumer information is released or accessed. if we fail to comply with these applicable laws or regulations we could be subject to significant liabilities which could adversely affect our business. many of our advertising partners are subject to industry specific laws and regulations or licensing requirements, including advertisers in the following industries: pharmaceuticals, online gaming, alcohol, adult content, tobacco, firearms, insurance, securities brokerage, real estate, sweepstakes, free trial offers, automatic renewal services and legal services. if any of our advertising partners fail to comply with any of these licensing requirements or other applicable laws or regulations, or if such laws and regulations or licensing requirements become more stringent or are otherwise expanded, our business could be adversely affected. furthermore, these laws may also limit the way we advertise our products and services or cause us to incur compliance costs, which could affect our revenues and could further adversely impact our business.   23 table of contents failure to comply with federal, state or international privacy laws or regulations, or the expansion of current or the enactment of new privacy laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business. a variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data. in addition to the potentially differing interpretations of existing law, the present landscape of public policy and privacy creates uncertainty for business planning. in such an uncertain environment, it is difficult to make informed long-term business planning decisions about data use, notice, storage, access, retention or choice. the existing privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations. in addition, various federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies may expand current or enact new laws regarding privacy matters. we have posted privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data on our websites. any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, federal trade commission requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws, regulations or industry self-regulatory principles could result in claims, proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others or other liabilities, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, a failure or perceived failure to comply with industry standards or with our own privacy policies and procedures could result in a loss of consumers or advertisers and adversely affect our business. federal, state and international governmental authorities continue to evaluate the privacy implications inherent in the use of third-party web “cookies” for behavioral advertising. we use cookies, which are small text files placed in a consumer’s browser, to facilitate authentication, preference management, research and measurement, personalization and advertisement and content delivery. in the third party network, cookies or similar technologies help present, target and measure the effectiveness of advertisements. the regulation of these “cookies” and other current online advertising practices could adversely affect our business. aol operates in an environment of high scrutiny and regulatory uncertainty: the use of consumer data by online service providers and advertising networks is a topic of active interest among a number of regulatory bodies at the national and state levels and the regulatory environment is unsettled. the disposition of our icq operations may be affected by the review of the transaction by the committee on foreign investment in the united states. after our disposition of our icq operations (“icq”) in july 2010, the committee on foreign investment in the united states (“cfius”) contacted mail.ru (formerly known as digital sky technologies limited) and, subsequently, mail.ru and aol submitted a joint voluntary filing to cfius commencing a review of the transaction under section 721 of title vii of the defense production act of 1950, as amended. aol and mail.ru are currently working with cfius to address their concerns. however, we can provide no assurance regarding the resolution of the cfius process, including that aol and mail.ru will be able to mutually resolve cfius’ concerns. if aol and mail.ru are unable to resolve cfius’ concerns, cfius may impose mitigation measures or refer the matter to the president, who has authority to impose a broad range of remedies, which may include, among other things, unwinding the transaction or divesting icq by mail.ru. we can provide no assurance that cfius will not impose conditions on our disposition of icq that materially increase our estimated costs or that materially increase or extend our anticipated involvement in the operations of icq, or that the transaction will not be unwound or materially restructured in excess of our expectations. for additional information regarding the disposition of our icq operations see “note 4” in our accompanying consolidated financial statements.   24 table of contents changes to products, technology and services made by third parties and consumers could adversely affect our business. we are dependent on many products, technologies and services provided by third parties, including browsers, data and search indexes, in order for consumers to use our content, products and services, as well as to deliver, measure, render and report advertising. any changes made by these third parties or consumers to functionality, features or settings of these products, technologies and services could adversely affect our business. for example, third parties may develop, and consumers may install, software that is used to block advertisements or delete cookies, or consumers may elect to manually delete cookies more frequently. likewise, search services providers may adjust their algorithms and indexes, which may hinder the ability of consumers to reach and use our content, products and services. this risk is increased because there are a small number of search services providers and any change made by one or more of these providers could significantly affect our business. the widespread adoption of these products and technologies or changes to current products, technologies and services could adversely affect our business. acquisitions of other businesses could adversely affect our operations and result in unanticipated liabilities. since january 1, 2010, we have acquired seven businesses, are in the process of acquiring another and we are likely to make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. on february 6, 2011, the company entered into an agreement and plan of merger with the huffington post, which is expected to close in the late first or early second quarter of 2011. the completion of acquisitions, such as the huffington post, and strategic investments as well as the integration of acquired companies or assets involve a substantial commitment of resources and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions and incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our business. in addition, past or future transactions may be accompanied by a number of risks, including:     •   the uncertainty of our returns on investment due to the new and developing industries in which some of the acquired companies operate;     •   the adverse effect of known potential liabilities or unknown liabilities, such as claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, associated with the companies acquired or in which we invest;     •   the difficulty of integrating technology, administrative systems, personnel and operations of acquired companies into our services, systems and operations and unanticipated expenses related to such integration;     •   the potential loss or disengagement of key talent at acquired companies;     •   the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management;     •   additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquire or in which we invest and the failure of such businesses to perform as expected;     •   the failure to successfully further develop acquired technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets;     •   the difficulty of reconciling potentially conflicting or overlapping contractual rights and duties; and     •   the potential impairment of relationships with consumers, partners and employees as a result of the combination of acquired operations and new management personnel.   25 table of contents we face risks relating to doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business and we face risks from not doing more international business. our business operates and serves consumers globally. there are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, including:     •   economic volatility and the current global economic recession;     •   currency exchange rate fluctuations;     •   the requirements of local laws and customs relating to the publication and distribution of content and the display and sale of advertising;     •   uncertain protection and enforcement of our intellectual property rights;     •   import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations;     •   difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a large number of foreign operations as a result of distance as well as language and cultural differences;     •   issues related to occupational safety and adherence to local labor laws and regulations;     •   potentially adverse tax developments;     •   longer payment cycles;     •   political or social unrest;     •   seasonal volatility in business activity;     •   risks related to government regulation;     •   the existence in some countries of statutory stockholder minority rights and restrictions on foreign direct ownership;     •   the presence of corruption in certain countries; and     •   higher than anticipated costs of entry. one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business. we have expanded our international operations through the acquisition of goviral a/s, a company that distributes branded online video for media agencies, creative agencies and content producers. international expansion involves significant investment as well as risks associated with doing business abroad, as described above. furthermore, investments in some regions can take a long period to generate an adequate return and in some cases there may not be a developed or efficient legal system to protect foreign investment or intellectual property rights. in addition, as we expand into new international regions, we may have limited experience in operating and marketing our products and services in such regions and could be at a disadvantage compared to competitors with more experience. as part of our recent restructuring activities, we have ceased or reduced operations in a number of countries. we could be at a competitive disadvantage in the long term if we are not able to capitalize on international opportunities, especially as compared to our competitors who maintain a continuous expansive global presence.   26 table of contents we could be subject to additional tax liabilities which could adversely affect our business. international, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations affecting our business, or interpretations or application of these tax laws and regulations, could change. in addition, new international, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations affecting our business could be enacted or taxing authorities may disagree with our interpretation of tax laws and regulations. our subscription access service is protected from taxation through the federal internet tax non-discrimination act, which is in effect until november 2014. however, faced with decreasing revenues, several states have sought to increase revenue by taxing advertising generally, and internet advertising specifically, by changing the definition of “tangible personal property” to include digital products such as parental controls and digital storage, or by increasing general business taxes. imposing new taxes on advertising or internet advertising would adversely affect us. a tax on digital products in a particular state would require us to either pay the sales tax on all non-access paid services sold in that state or implement a system to collect the tax from our customers and remit it to that state. an increase in general business taxes would adversely affect us if it occurred in a jurisdiction in which we operate. other states have sought to expand the definition of “nexus” for the purpose of taxing goods and services sold over the internet. if enacted, these new taxes would adversely affect our consumers and, as a result, could adversely affect our business. we could be required to record significant impairment charges in the future. we are required under generally accepted accounting principles to test goodwill for impairment at least annually, and to review our identifiable intangible assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets include significant adverse changes in the business climate and declines in the value of our business. we recorded a significant goodwill impairment charge in 2010 and we may be required to record additional impairment charges (which would reduce our net income) in the future. our estimated fair value is primarily based on our market capitalization and volatility in our stock price could have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of our sole reporting unit. as of december 31, 2010, our goodwill totaled $810.9 million. our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent, publicly-traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. the historical financial information we have included in this annual report may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented before 2010, or what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future as an independent company. this is primarily because:     •   we have entered into transactions with time warner that either have not existed historically or that are on different terms than the terms of arrangements or agreements that existed prior to the spin-off;     •   our historical financial information reflects allocations for certain services historically provided to us by time warner that may not reflect the costs we have incurred or will incur for similar services in the future as an independent company; and     •   our historical financial information does not reflect changes that we have experienced or may experience in the future as a result of our separation from time warner, including changes in the cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations of our business. we are responsible for the additional costs associated with being an independent, publicly-traded company, including costs related to corporate governance and public reporting. therefore, our financial statements for the years before 2010 may not be indicative of our future performance as an independent company. for additional information about our past financial performance and the basis of presentation of our financial statements, see “item 6—selected financial data,” “item 7—management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and   27 table of contents results of operations” and our accompanying consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report. we may have been able to receive better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we received in our agreements with time warner. the agreements related to our separation from time warner were negotiated in the context of our separation from time warner while we were still part of time warner. accordingly, these agreements may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. the terms of the agreements entered into in the context of our separation are related to, among other things, allocations of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations among time warner and us. we may have received better terms from third parties because third parties may have competed with each other to win our business. see “note 13” in our accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information on the ongoing relationship with time warner. risks relating to our common stock and the securities market our stock price may fluctuate significantly. our stock price may fluctuate significantly depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:     •   actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business;     •   success or failure of our business strategy;     •   our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry;     •   our ability to obtain financing as needed;     •   announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions;     •   changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;     •   changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;     •   the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;     •   overall market fluctuations;     •   changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and     •   general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. this has been particularly true in recent years for internet services companies. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.   28 table of contents provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors (the “board”) rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings and the right of our board to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. we believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board and by providing our board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. these provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board determines is not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders.   item 1b. unresolved