item 1a. risk factors the risks and uncertainties described below are those which we consider material and of which we are currently aware. in addition, this annual report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. you should carefully read the section “cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements”. if any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could materially decline. risks relating to our business our focus on our online advertising-supported business model involves significant risks. as our subscription revenues continue to decline, we have become increasingly dependent on advertising revenues. until recently, we have not been able to generate sufficient growth in our advertising revenues to offset the loss of subscription revenues we have experienced in recent years and we may not be able to do so in the future on a consistent basis. growth in our advertising revenues depends on our ability to continue offering effective products and services for advertisers and publishers. continuing to develop and improve these products and services may require significant time and investment. if we cannot continue to develop and improve our advertising products, services and technologies, our advertising revenues could be adversely affected. in order for us to increase advertising revenues in the future, we believe it will be important to increase our overall volume of advertising sold and to maintain or increase pricing for advertising. if we are not able to attract consumers to, and engage consumers with, those aol properties that typically generate higher-priced and higher-volume advertising, our advertising revenues may not increase even if the aggregate number of consumers on aol properties increases and their aggregate engagement increases. additionally, there are different cost structures within our advertising business. in order to generate display advertising revenues on the third party network, we incur tac. while a majority of the costs associated with generating display advertising on the third party network are variable, a majority of costs associated with generating display advertising revenue on aol properties are fixed. therefore, even if we generate higher display advertising revenues on the third party network, because there are lower incremental margins associated with these sales, the increase in our operating income will be less than it would with an equivalent increase in display revenues on aol properties. additionally, advertising revenues are more unpredictable and variable than our subscription revenues, and are more likely to be adversely affected during economic downturns, as spending by advertisers tends to be cyclical in line with general economic conditions. we face intense competition in all aspects of our business. the internet industry, with its low barriers to entry and rapidly shifting consumer tastes, is dynamic and rapidly evolving. competition among internet companies offering online content, products and services, as well as with traditional offline content and advertising companies which are increasingly offering their own online content, products and services, is intense both domestically and globally and new competitors can quickly emerge. we could be at a competitive disadvantage in the long term if we are not able to capitalize on international opportunities, especially as compared to a number of our competitors who maintain an expansive global presence. if our competitors are more successful than we are in developing compelling content, products and services or in attracting and retaining consumers, advertisers, publishers and subscribers domestically and internationally, our business could be adversely affected.   14 table of contents if we do not continue to develop and offer compelling content, products and services and attract new consumers or maintain the engagement of our existing consumers, our advertising revenues could be adversely affected. in order to attract consumers and maintain or increase engagement on aol properties, we believe we must offer compelling content, products and services. acquiring, developing and offering new content, products and services, as well as new functionality, features and enhanced performance of our existing content, products and services, may require significant investment and time to develop. in addition, consumer tastes are difficult to predict and subject to rapid change. in general, subscribers to our subscription access service are among the most engaged consumers on aol properties. as our subscriber base declines, it is advantageous to maintain the engagement of former access subscribers and increase the number and engagement of other consumers on aol properties in order to successfully execute our business model. additionally, consumer engagement on certain of the aol properties, such as aol.com, has been very significant to our operating results and we continue to focus on efforts to maintain or increase engagement on those properties. for example, we derive a significant portion of our search advertising revenue from search queries on aol.com. if we are unable to develop online content, products and services that are attractive and relevant to aol.com consumers, we may not be able to maintain or increase our existing consumers’ engagement on or attract new consumers to aol.com and as a result our search advertising revenues may be adversely affected. we are dependent on a third-party search provider. we do not own or control a general web search service. google is, except in certain limited circumstances, the exclusive united states provider of web search and sponsored links on aol properties through december 31, 2015. for the year ended december 31, 2012, search advertising revenues comprised approximately 26% of our total advertising revenues. changes that google has made and may unilaterally make in the future to its search service or advertising network, including changes in pricing, algorithms or advertising relationships, could adversely affect our advertising revenues, a decline or an unfavorable change in our relationship with google could materially affect our advertising revenues. because we do not own or control such a search service, we are not able to package and sell search advertising along with display advertising services outside of aol properties and we believe that this could adversely affect our ability to increase advertising revenues. changes to products, technology and services made by third parties and consumers could adversely affect our business. we are dependent on many products, technologies and services provided by third parties, including browsers, data and search indexes, in order for consumers to use our content, products and services, as well as to deliver, measure, render and report advertising. any changes made by these third parties or consumers to functionality, features or settings of these products, technologies and services could adversely affect our business. for example, third parties may develop, and consumers may install, software that is used to block display or search advertisements or delete cookies, or consumers may elect to manually delete cookies more frequently. the widespread adoption of products and technologies or changes to current products, technologies and services could adversely affect our business. we rely on legacy technology infrastructure and a failure to update, scale or replace this technology infrastructure could adversely affect our business. significant portions of our content, products and services are dependent on technology infrastructure that was developed a number of years ago. the technology infrastructure utilized for our consumer offerings and advertising services are highly complex and may not provide satisfactory support as usage increases and products and services expand, change and become more complex in the future. in addition, we incur significant costs   15 table of contents operating our business with multiple and often contradictory technology platforms and infrastructure. updating and replacing our technology infrastructure may be challenging to implement and manage, may take time to test and deploy, may cause us to incur substantial costs and may cause us to suffer data loss or delays or interruptions in service which could adversely affect our business. competitors with newer technology infrastructure may have greater flexibility and be in a position to respond more quickly than us to new opportunities, which could impact our competitive position in certain markets and adversely affect our business. if we are unable to hire, engage and retain key management and other personnel, our business could be adversely affected. our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of key members of our management team and other personnel. if we do not succeed in retaining and engaging our key employees and in attracting new key personnel, we may be unable to meet our strategic objectives, maintain or build our brands, and, as a result, our business could be adversely affected. in particular, tim armstrong, our ceo, is critical to aol’s overall management, as well as the development of aol’s strategic direction and culture. we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. if we cannot effectively distribute our content, products and services, our ability to attract new customers and maintain the engagement of existing consumers could be adversely affected. as the behavior of internet consumers continues to change, distribution of our content, products and services via traditional methods may become less effective, and new distribution strategies may need to be developed. consumers are increasingly using social networking sites to communicate and to acquire and disseminate information rather than through instant messaging, electronic mail and portals. as consumers migrate towards social networks, we seek to build social elements into our content, products and services in order to make them available on social networks and to attract and engage consumers on our properties. there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate our content with such social networking or other new consumer trends. even if we are able to distribute our content, products and services effectively through social networking or other new or developing distribution channels, this does not assure that we will be able to attract new consumers. currently, an important distribution channel for aol properties is through our subscription access service. however, our access service subscriber base has declined and is expected to continue to decline. this continued decline is likely to reduce the effectiveness of our subscription access service as a distribution channel. in addition, certain of our websites, including portals such as the aol home page and the huffington post, act as valuable distribution channels for other aol properties. if we are unable to grow organically by attracting new consumers directly to our content, products and services or if traffic to our portals declines or our portals are less successful as a distribution vehicle for other aol properties, we may need to rely on distribution channels that require us to pay significant fees to third parties such as operators of third-party websites, online networks, software companies, device manufacturers, and others to promote or supply our services to their users. previously, we entered into distribution agreements with computer manufacturers to install our products and services on their personal computers and laptops. we no longer regularly enter into such agreements and as consumers upgrade their hardware, our products and services may not be as easily accessible. additionally, our products and services may not be compatible on or supported by new hardware. a decline in the traffic and engagement from these consumers could adversely affect our advertising and subscription revenue. global consumers are increasingly accessing and using the internet through devices other than personal computers, such as smartphones, tablets and televisions. in order for consumers to access and use our content, products and services via these devices, we must continue to ensure that our content, products and services are compatible with such devices. we also need to continue to secure arrangements with device manufacturers and carriers to promote prominent and effective distribution of our content, products and services.   16 table of contents in addition to placement agreements with wireless carriers and manufacturers, currently we offer applications directly to consumers for download from aol properties, the apple app store, or through other distribution channels. to the extent that consumers are using our applications, content, products and services, we have opportunities to generate advertising revenues. however, the amount of revenues, including advertising revenues, earned from such arrangements is currently small relative to advertising revenues earned through other arrangements. also, business models in the marketplace seem to be undergoing experimentation and rapid change. to the extent that we cannot generate consumer awareness and adoption of our applications, content, products and services, our business could be adversely impacted. our access service subscriber base could decline faster than we currently anticipate which could result in a decrease in our subscription and advertising revenues. our access service subscriber base has declined and is expected to continue to decline. this decline has been the result of several factors, including the increased availability of high-speed internet broadband connections and attractive bundled offerings by such broadband providers, the fact that a significant amount of online content, products and services has been optimized for use with broadband internet connections and the effects of our strategic shift to focus on generating advertising revenues, which resulted in us essentially eliminating our marketing efforts for our subscription access service and the free availability of the vast majority of our content, products and services. dial-up internet access services do not compete favorably with broadband access services with respect to connection speed and do not have a significant, if any, price advantage over certain broadband services. a substantial number of our access service subscribers do not use our dial-up service to access the internet. although we provide other online services in addition to dial-up access as part of our subscription access plans, there can be no assurance that our subscribers will value the bundle of services we offer and they may cancel their subscriptions at any time. if any of these factors result in our access subscriber base declining faster than we currently anticipate, our subscription and advertising revenues could be adversely affected. a disruption or failure of our networks and information systems, the internet or other technology may disrupt our business. our business is heavily dependent on the availability of network and information systems, the internet and other technologies. shutdowns or service disruptions caused by events such as criminal activity, sabotage or espionage, computer viruses, hacking and other cyber-security attacks, router disruption, automated attacks such as denial of service attacks, power outages, natural disasters, accidents, terrorism, equipment failure or other events within or outside our control could adversely affect us and our consumers, including loss or compromise of data, service disruption, damage to equipment and data and excessive call volume to call centers. furthermore, such attacks are not always able to be immediately detected, which means that we may not be in a position to promptly address the attacks or to implement adequate preventative measures. such events could result in large expenditures necessary to recover data, or repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. as not all of our systems are fully redundant, some data or systems might not be recoverable after such events. in addition, not all of our systems operate in the same data centers. significant incidents could result in a disruption of parts of our business, consumer dissatisfaction, damage to our brands, legal costs or liability, and a loss of consumers or revenues. if we cannot continue to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on patent, copyright, trademark, domain name and trade secret laws in the united states and similar laws in other countries, as well as licenses and other agreements with our employees, consumers, content providers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in the technology, content, products and services used in our operations. these laws and agreements may not guarantee that our   17 table of contents intellectual property rights will be protected and our intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated. also, recent amendments to u.s. patent laws may adversely impact our ability to protect our new technologies, content, products and services and to defend against claims of patent infringement. in addition, such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of offerings, decreased traffic and associated revenue or otherwise adversely affect our business. as we acquire and publish more original content, our intellectual property may be increasingly subject to misappropriation by others, and the costs to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights may increase. we have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims of intellectual property infringement or tort law violations that could adversely affect our business. many companies (including patent holding companies) and individuals own patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. we have recently experienced an increase in the number of intellectual property rights claims against us coinciding with the expansion of various parts of our business. we may continue to experience these increases as we develop and offer new products, services, and technologies through various distribution channels. these claims, whether meritorious or not, may result in litigation, may be time-consuming and costly to resolve, and may require expensive changes in our methods of doing business and/or our content, products and services. these intellectual property infringement claims may require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms or to incur substantial monetary liability. additionally, these claims may result in our being enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of certain intellectual property and/or our content, products and services, or may require us to cease or significantly alter certain of our operations. the occurrence of any of these events as a result of these claims could result in substantially increased costs, could limit or reduce the number of our offerings to consumers, advertisers, publishers and subscribers, could stifle innovation or otherwise adversely affect our business. some of our commercial agreements may require us to indemnify third parties against intellectual property infringement claims, which may require us to use substantial resources to defend against or settle such claims or, potentially, to pay damages. these third parties may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely impact our business. additionally, we may be exposed to liability or substantially increased costs if a commercial partner does not honor its contractual obligation to indemnify us for intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties or if any amounts received are not adequate to cover our liabilities or the costs associated with defense of such claims. the occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business. as a publisher of original content and aggregator of third party content, we also face risks of periodic tort claims such as defamation or improper use of publicity rights, as well as infringement claims such as plagiarism. whether or not they have merit, these claims may be time-consuming or costly to resolve. the misappropriation, release, loss or misuse of aol, consumer or other data could adversely affect our business. our business utilizes significant amounts of data about our business, consumers and our advertising and publishing partners in order to deliver our content, products and services and our advertising solutions. the misappropriation, release, loss or misuse of this data, whether by accident, omission or as the result of criminal activity, sabotage or espionage, hacking, computer viruses, natural disasters, terrorism, equipment failure or other events, could lead to negative publicity, harm to our reputation, customer dissatisfaction, regulatory enforcement actions or individual or class-action lawsuits or significant expenditures to recover the data or protect data from similar releases in the future, and may otherwise adversely affect our business. furthermore, as not all of our systems are fully redundant, some data or systems might not be recoverable in a catastrophic event or other significant service disruption.   18 table of contents new or existing federal, state or international laws or regulations applicable to our business could subject us to claims or otherwise adversely affect our business. our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations, including those with respect to consumer privacy, advertising generally, consumer protection, content regulation, network neutrality, cyber security, data protection, intellectual property (including copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws), defamation, child protection, advertising to and collecting information from children, taxation, employment classification, billing, subpoena and warrant processes and others. these laws and regulations and the interpretation or application of these laws and regulations could change. in addition, new laws or regulations affecting our business could be enacted. furthermore, many laws were adopted prior to the advent of the internet and related technologies or have an unsettled application or scope with respect to the internet and related technologies and therefore their application on our business is often uncertain. additionally, as our business evolves, we may be subject to new laws and the application of existing laws to us might change. these laws and regulations are frequently costly to comply with and may divert a significant portion of management’s attention. if we fail to comply with these applicable laws or regulations, we could receive negative publicity and be subject to significant liabilities which could adversely affect our business. many of our advertising partners are subject to industry specific laws and regulations or licensing requirements, including advertisers in the following industries: pharmaceuticals, online gaming, alcohol, adult content, tobacco, firearms, insurance, securities brokerage, real estate, sweepstakes, free trial offers, automatic renewal services and legal services. if any of our advertising partners fails to comply with any of these licensing requirements or other applicable laws or regulations, or if such laws and regulations or licensing requirements become more stringent or are otherwise expanded, we could receive negative publicity, incur significant penalties or our business could be otherwise adversely affected. failure to comply with federal, state or international privacy laws or regulations, or the expansion of current or the enactment of new privacy laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business. a variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data. in addition to the potentially differing interpretations of existing law, the present landscape of public policy and privacy creates uncertainty for business planning. in such an uncertain environment, it is difficult to make informed long-term business planning decisions about data use, notice, storage, access, retention or choice. the existing privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations. in addition, various federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies may expand current or enact new laws regarding privacy matters. we have posted privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data on our websites. any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, federal trade commission requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws, regulations or industry self-regulatory principles could result in claims, proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others or other liabilities, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, a failure or perceived failure to comply with industry standards or with our own privacy policies and procedures could result in a loss of consumers or advertisers and adversely affect our business. federal, state and international governmental authorities continue to evaluate the privacy implications inherent in the use of third-party web “cookies” for behavioral advertising. we use cookies, which are small text files placed in a consumer’s browser, to facilitate authentication, preference management, research and measurement, personalization, targeting and advertisement and content delivery. the regulation of these “cookies” and other current online advertising practices could adversely affect our business.   19 table of contents any restructuring actions and cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the expected results and these actions may adversely affect our business operations. we may undertake various restructuring activities and cost reduction initiatives in an effort to better align our organizational structure and costs with our strategy. in connection with such activities, we may experience a disruption in our ability to perform functions important to our strategy. while we strive to reduce the negative impact of such restructuring actions and cost reduction initiatives, such activities could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of our strategic objectives and the results of our operations. we expect to continue to actively manage our costs. however, if we do not fully realize or maintain the anticipated benefits of any restructuring plans and cost reduction initiatives, our business could be adversely affected. we may need to raise additional capital, and we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available. we have funded our ongoing working capital, capital expenditure and financing requirements through cash flows from operations and asset dispositions; however, we may require additional financing in the future. our ability to obtain future financing will depend on, among other things, our financial condition and results of operations as well as the condition of the capital markets or other credit markets at the time we seek financing. we currently do not have any ratings from the credit rating agencies, so our access to capital markets may be limited. we may not be able to obtain future financing on terms acceptable to us in a timely manner, or at all. our ability to fund our working capital, capital expenditure and financing requirements in the future may be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms. if we are unable to enter into the necessary financing arrangements or sufficient funds are not available on acceptable terms when required, we may not have sufficient liquidity and our business may be adversely affected. acquisitions of other businesses could adversely affect our operations and result in unanticipated liabilities. since january 1, 2012, we acquired buysight and other smaller businesses and we may make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. the completion of acquisitions and strategic investments as well as the integration of acquired companies or assets involve a substantial commitment of resources and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions and incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our business. in addition, past or future transactions may be accompanied by a number of risks, including:     •   the uncertainty of our returns on investment due to the new and developing industries in which some of the acquired companies operate;     •   the adverse effect of known potential liabilities or unknown liabilities, such as claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, associated with the companies acquired or in which we invest;     •   the difficulty of integrating technology, administrative systems, personnel and operations of acquired companies into our services, systems and operations and unanticipated expenses related to such integration;     •   the potential loss or disengagement of key talent at acquired companies;     •   the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management;     •   additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquire or in which we invest and the failure of such businesses to perform as expected;     •   the failure to successfully further develop acquired technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets;   20 table of contents   •   the difficulty of reconciling potentially conflicting or overlapping contractual rights and duties; and     •   the potential impairment of relationships with consumers, partners and employees as a result of the combination of acquired operations and new management personnel. we face risks relating to doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business. our business operates and serves consumers globally. there are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, including:     •   economic volatility and the current global economic uncertainty;     •   currency exchange rate fluctuations;     •   the requirements of local laws and customs relating to the publication and distribution of content and the display and sale of advertising;     •   uncertain protection and enforcement of our investment or intellectual property rights;     •   import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations;     •   difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a large number of foreign operations as a result of distance as well as language and cultural differences;     •   issues related to occupational safety and adherence to local labor laws and regulations;     •   political or social unrest;     •   risks related to government regulation;     •   the existence in some countries of statutory stockholder minority rights and restrictions on foreign direct ownership;     •   the presence of corruption in certain countries; and     •   higher than anticipated costs of entry. one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business. international expansion involves increased investment as well as risks associated with doing business abroad, as described above. in certain instances, we have expanded internationally through joint ventures, and our inability to control certain aspects of a joint venture partnership may impact the development and expansion of our offerings. furthermore, investments in some regions can take a long period to generate an adequate return. in addition, as we expand into new international regions, we may have limited experience in operating and marketing our products and services in such regions and could be at a disadvantage compared to competitors with more experience. we could be subject to additional tax liabilities which could adversely affect our business. international, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations affecting our business are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. these tax laws and regulations, or interpretations or application of these tax laws and regulations, could change or new laws and regulations affecting our business could be enacted.   21 table of contents there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. our subscription access service is protected from taxation through the federal internet tax non-discrimination act, which is in effect until november 2014 and there is no guarantee that this exemption will continue past this date. several taxing jurisdictions have sought to increase revenue by imposing new taxes on, advertising generally, and internet advertising specifically, or by increasing general business taxes. imposing new taxes on advertising or internet advertising would adversely affect us. a tax on digital products in a particular state would require us to either pay the sales tax on all non-access paid services sold in that state or implement a system to collect the tax from our customers and remit it to that state which could be costly to put in place. other states have sought to expand the definition of “nexus” for the purpose of taxing goods and services sold over the internet. if enacted, these new taxes would adversely affect our consumers and, as a result, could adversely affect our business. we may not be able to utilize our tax attributes to offset future u.s. taxable income. we believe that we have valuable tax attributes that are significant assets of the company. unless otherwise restricted, we can utilize these tax assets in certain circumstances to offset future u.s. taxable income, including in connection with capital gains that may be generated from a potential asset sale. our ability to use the tax assets could be limited and the timing of the usage of the tax assets could be substantially delayed if we experience an “ownership change,” as defined in section 382 of the internal revenue code. a company generally experiences an “ownership change” for tax purposes if the percentage of stock owned by its 5% stockholders (as defined for tax purposes) increases by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. to help protect shareholder value and preserve our ability to use the tax assets, our board of directors (the “board”) recently adopted a tax asset protection plan (the “tapp”) to act as a deterrent to any person acquiring beneficial ownership of 4.9% or more of our outstanding common stock without the approval of the board. notwithstanding the adoption of the tapp, we cannot eliminate the possibility that an “ownership change” will occur. the amount by which our ownership may change in the future could, for example, be affected by purchases and sales of stock by stockholders and repurchases of stock by us, should we choose to do so. additionally, if our shareholders do not approve the adoption of the tapp at our next annual meeting, the tapp will terminate in august 2013. if the tapp is not effective in preventing an ownership change our ability to use the tax assets to offset taxable income may be reduced or eliminated. even if the tapp is effective in preventing an ownership change, we will only be able to utilize these tax assets to the extent we generate taxable income and the taxing authorities do not challenge the amount of our tax assets or otherwise make an adverse determination regarding our ability to use these assets, and therefore we are not able to guarantee that the tax assets will be valuable to us in the future. risks relating to our common stock and the securities market our stock price may fluctuate significantly. our stock price has fluctuated significantly over the last two years and may fluctuate significantly depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:     •   actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business;     •   success or failure of our business strategy;     •   our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry;     •   our ability to obtain financing as needed;     •   announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions;   22 table of contents   •   changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;     •   changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;     •   the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;     •   overall market fluctuations;     •   changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and     •   general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. when the market price of a company’s stock fluctuates significantly, shareholders may institute securities class action litigation against that company. any litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and other resources or otherwise harm our business.   item 1b. unresolved