item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business we are currently dependent on chesapeake for a substantial majority of our revenues. therefore, we are indirectly subject to the business risks of chesapeake. we have no control over chesapeake’s business decisions and operations, and chesapeake is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us. historically, we have provided substantially all of our natural gas gathering, treating and compression services to chesapeake and its working interest partners. for the year ended december 31, 2012, chesapeake accounted for approximately 75 percent of the fees on our gathering systems. on a pro forma basis for the year ended december 31, 2012, after giving effect to the cmo acquisition, chesapeake would have accounted for approximately 80 percent of the fees on our gathering systems. we expect to derive a substantial majority of our revenues from chesapeake for the foreseeable future. therefore, any event, whether in our area of operations or otherwise, that adversely affects chesapeake’s production, financial condition, leverage, results of operations or cash flows may adversely affect our ability to sustain or increase cash distributions to our unitholders. accordingly, we are indirectly subject to the business risks of chesapeake, some of which are the following:     •   the volatility of natural gas, ngl and oil prices, which could have a negative effect on the value of its oil and natural gas properties, its drilling programs or its ability to finance its operations;     •   the availability of capital on an economic basis to fund its exploration and development activities;     •   its ability to replace reserves, sustain production and begin production on certain leases that may otherwise expire;     •   uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of natural gas and oil reserves and projecting future rates of production;     •   its drilling and operating risks, including potential environmental liabilities;     •   transportation capacity constraints and interruptions;     •   adverse effects of governmental and environmental regulation; and     •   losses from pending or future litigation. if our producers do not increase the volumes of natural gas they provide to our gathering systems and processing facilities, our growth strategy and ability to increase cash distributions to our unitholders may be adversely affected. our ability to increase the throughput on our gathering systems and processing facilities will be substantially dependent on receiving increased volumes from producers. other than the scheduled increases in the minimum volume commitments provided for in our gas gathering agreements with certain producers in certain geographic areas, our customers are not obligated to provide additional volumes to our systems, and they may determine in the future that drilling activities in areas outside of our current areas of operation are strategically more attractive to them. for example, chesapeake previously announced its intention to increase operations in liquids-rich areas and, in response to historically low natural gas prices, announced that it was reducing dry gas drilling, completions, production and leasehold expenditures wherever feasible, including by operating fewer drilling rigs in the barnett shale, haynesville shale and marcellus shale regions. a reduction in the natural gas volumes supplied by chesapeake, total or other producers could result in reduced throughput on our systems and adversely impact our ability to grow our operations and increase cash distributions to our unitholders. we may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders. we may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on each of our common units, subordinated units, class c units and the two percent general partner interest outstanding. the amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:     •   the volume of natural gas we gather, treat, compress and process;   14 table of contents   •   the level of production of, the demand for, and, indirectly, the price of natural gas, ngls and oil;     •   the level of our operating and general and administrative costs;     •   regulatory action affecting the supply of or demand for natural gas, ngls and oil, our operations, the rates we can charge, how we contract for services, our existing contracts, our operating costs or our operating flexibility; and     •   prevailing economic conditions. in addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:     •   the level of capital expenditures we make, including capital expenditures for connecting new operated drilling pads or new operated wells of producers in our acreage dedications as required by our gas gathering agreements;     •   the cost of acquisitions, if any;     •   our debt service requirements and other liabilities;     •   fluctuations in our working capital needs;     •   our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;     •   restrictions contained in our debt agreements;     •   the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and     •   other business risks affecting our cash levels. the amount of cash available for distribution will also be reduced by the amount we reimburse chesapeake for its provision of certain general and administrative services and any additional services we may request from chesapeake, each pursuant to our services agreement with chesapeake. in addition, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf. under our partnership agreement, our general partner determines in good faith the amount of these expenses. chesapeake’s level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to grow our business, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders and our credit ratings and profile. chesapeake must devote a portion of its cash flows from operating activities to service its indebtedness, and such cash flows are therefore not available for further development activities, which may reduce the volumes chesapeake delivers to our gathering systems and processing facilities. furthermore, a higher level of indebtedness at chesapeake increases the risk that it may default on its obligations, including under its gas gathering and processing agreements with us. such a default could occur after the conversion of the subordinated units as a result of our general partner’s ability, for purposes of testing whether the subordination period has ended, to include as “earned” in a particular quarter its prorated estimates of shortfall payments to be earned by the end of the then current calendar year under the minimum volume commitments contained in certain of our gas gathering agreements. the covenants contained in the agreements governing chesapeake’s outstanding and future indebtedness may limit its ability to borrow additional funds for development and make certain investments, which also may reduce the volumes chesapeake delivers to our gathering systems and processing facilities. chesapeake’s debt ratings for its senior notes are currently below investment grade. if these ratings are lowered in the future, the interest rate and fees chesapeake pays on its revolving credit facilities will increase. credit rating agencies such as standard & poor’s and moody’s will likely consider chesapeake’s debt ratings when reviewing ours because of the significant commercial relationships between chesapeake and us and our reliance on chesapeake for a substantial majority of our revenues. if one or more credit rating agencies were to downgrade the outstanding indebtedness of chesapeake, we could experience an increase in our borrowing costs or difficulty accessing the capital markets. such a development could adversely affect our ability to grow our business and to make cash distributions to our unitholders. in addition to chesapeake, we are dependent on total, statoil, anadarko and mitsui for a significant amount of the natural gas that we gather, treat, compress and process. a material reduction in one or more producers’ production gathered, treated, compressed or processed by us may result in a material decline in our revenues and cash available for distribution.   15 table of contents in addition to chesapeake, we rely on total and other producers such as statoil, anadarko and mitsui for a significant amount of the natural gas that we gather, treat, compress and process. these customers may suffer a decrease in production volumes in the areas serviced by us. we are also subject to the risk that one or more of these customers default on its obligations under its gas gathering and processing agreements with us. not all of our counterparties under our gas gathering and processing agreements are rated by credit rating agencies. accordingly, this risk may be more difficult to evaluate than it would be with rated contract counterparties. a loss of a significant portion of the natural gas volumes supplied by total or one or more other producers, or any nonpayment or late payment by total or one more other producers of our fees, could result in a material decline in our revenues and our cash available for distribution. because of the natural decline in production from existing wells in our areas of operation, our success depends on our ability to obtain new sources of natural gas and ngls, which is dependent on factors beyond our control. any decrease in the volumes of natural gas and ngls that we gather or process could adversely affect our business and operating results. the volumes that support our business are dependent on the level of production from natural gas and ngl wells connected to our gathering systems, the production from which may be less than we expect and will naturally decline over time. as a result, our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. in order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering systems, we must obtain new sources of natural gas and ngls. the primary factors affecting our ability to obtain non-dedicated sources of natural gas and ngls include (i) the level of successful drilling activity near our systems and (ii) our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. we have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to our gathering systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. in addition, we have no control over producers and their drilling or production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, the availability and cost of capital, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, relative pricing of oil, ngl and natural gas, levels of reserves, geological considerations, environmental or other governmental regulations, the availability of drilling permits, the availability of drilling rigs, and other production and development costs. fluctuations in energy prices can also greatly affect the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. in general terms, the prices of natural gas, ngls, oil and other hydrocarbon products fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. these factors include worldwide economic conditions; worldwide political conditions, such as the recent instability in africa and the middle east; weather conditions and seasonal trends; the levels of domestic production and consumer demand; the availability of imported liquefied natural gas (“lng”); the potential for export of lng; the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity; the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the effect of energy conservation measures; the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and the anticipated future prices of natural gas, lng and other commodities. declines in natural gas, ngl or oil prices could have a negative impact on exploration, development and production activity and, if sustained, could lead to a material decrease in such activity. sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in our areas of operation would lead to reduced utilization of our gathering, treating and processing assets. because of these factors, even if new natural gas and oil reserves are known to exist in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. if reductions in drilling activity result in our inability to maintain levels of throughput, it could reduce our revenue and impair our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. in addition, it may be more difficult to maintain or increase the current volumes on our gathering systems in unconventional resource plays, as the basins in those plays generally have higher initial production rates and steeper production decline curves than wells in more conventional basins. accordingly, volumes on our systems serving unconventional resource plays may need to be replaced at a faster rate to maintain or grow the current volumes than may be the case in other regions of production. in addition to significant capital expenditures to support growth, the steeper production decline curves associated with unconventional resource plays may require us to estimate higher maintenance capital expenditures over time, which will reduce our cash available for distribution from operating surplus. if one of our gas gathering or processing agreements were to be terminated by a customer as a result of our failure to perform certain obligations under the agreement, and we were unable to secure comparable alternative arrangements, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders would be adversely affected.   16 table of contents our gas gathering and processing agreements are terminable if we fail to perform any of our material obligations and fail to correct such non-performance within specified periods, although under certain of our gas gathering agreements if our failure to perform relates to only one or more facilities or gathering systems, such agreement is terminable only as to such facilities or systems. additionally, if a gas gathering agreement is terminated as to only a particular barnett shale gathering system, the minimum volume commitment may be reduced for gas volumes that would have been gathered on the terminated gathering system. after the termination of a gas gathering or processing agreement, a customer might not continue to contract with us to provide gathering or processing services, the terms of any renegotiated agreements may not be as favorable as our existing agreements, and we may not be able to enter into comparable alternative arrangements with third parties. to the extent a customer terminates a gas gathering or processing agreement or there is a reduction in our minimum volume commitments, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders may be adversely affected. certain of the provisions contained in our gas gathering agreements may not operate as intended, including the volumetric-based cap associated with fuel and lost and unaccounted for gas, which could subject us to direct commodity price risk and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. our gas gathering agreements contain provisions relating to, among other items, periodic fee redeterminations, the cost of service mechanism, changes in laws affecting our operations and fuel and lost and unaccounted for gas. these and other provisions of our gas gathering agreements might not operate as intended. the fee redetermination, cost of service mechanism and other provisions of our gas gathering agreements are intended to support the stability of our cash flows and were designed with the goal of supporting a return on our invested capital, which is not equivalent to ensuring that our business will generate a particular amount of cash flow. our fee redetermination and cost of service provisions do not take into consideration all expenses and other variables, including certain operating expenditures, that would affect our return on invested capital. in addition, our gathering rates may be adjusted upward or downward following a fee redetermination or cost of service calculation, subject to specified caps in certain cases. the change in law provisions contained in our gas gathering agreements are designed to provide for our reimbursement by customers of certain taxes, fees, assessments and other charges that we may incur as a result of changes in law. these change in law provisions may not cover all legal or regulatory changes that could have an adverse economic impact on our operations. we have also agreed with our customers on caps on fuel and lost and unaccounted for gas on certain of our systems. if we exceed a permitted cap in any covered period, we may incur significant expenses to replace the natural gas used as fuel and lost or unaccounted for in excess of such cap based on then current natural gas prices. accordingly, this replacement obligation will subject us to direct commodity price risk. if these or other provisions of our gas gathering agreements do not operate as intended, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. we do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas and ngl reserves connected to our gathering systems; therefore, in the future, volumes of natural gas and ngls on our systems could be less than we currently anticipate. we do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas and ngl reserves connected to our systems. accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. notwithstanding the contractual protections in certain of our gas gathering agreements, including minimum volume commitments in our barnett shale region, and haynesville shale region, and fee redetermination and cost of service provisions, if the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our gathering systems are less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas and ngls, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. we are generally required to make capital expenditures under our commercial agreements and the applicable governing provisions of our joint venture arrangements in the utica shale and certain of our mid-continent regions. if we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms to fund required capital expenditures or capital expenditures to otherwise expand our asset base, our ability to grow cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase. we are generally required to make capital expenditures under our commercial agreements in order to provide midstream services to our producer customers. under our gas gathering agreements, upon the request of any of our customers, we are generally required to connect new operated drilling pads and new operated wells (i) in our barnett shale and haynesville shale regions during the respective minimum volume commitment periods, (ii) in our eagle ford shale, marcellus shale, niobrara shale and utica shale regions, generally subject to our option to connect discussed below, and (iii) with respect to our mid-continent region prior to june 30, 2019, to use commercially reasonable efforts to do the same. in the eagle ford shale, marcellus shale, niobrara shale and utica shale regions, we generally have the option to connect new   17 table of contents operated drilling pads and new operated wells, but we may be required to connect by the customer under certain circumstances. under the applicable governing provisions of our joint venture arrangements in the utica shale and certain of our mid-continent regions, we are obligated to make capital contributions to fund the development of necessary gathering and processing infrastructure facilities in the applicable region. in addition, in order to increase our overall asset base, we will need to make significant expansion capital expenditures in the future. if we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, including such new drilling pad and new well connections, we will be unable to expand our business operations and will be unable to raise the level of our future cash distributions. if we are delayed in making a connection to an operated drilling pad or well (during the minimum volume commitment period), certain producers in the barnett shale and haynesville shale acreage dedication, as their sole remedy for such delayed connection, would be entitled to a delay in the minimum volume obligation for gas volumes that would have been produced from the delayed connections. in addition, if we are delayed in making a connection to an operated drilling pad or well, certain producers in the eagle ford shale, marcellus shale, niobrara shale, utica shale and haynesville shale acreage dedication are entitled to a daily penalty payment that escalates in amount every 15 days. if we are delayed in making a connection to an operated drilling pad or well for a period of time in the eagle ford shale, marcellus shale, niobrara shale, utica shale and haynesville shale regions, the proposed drilling pad and well will be released from the acreage dedication under the applicable gas gathering agreement. as a result of its release, the producers or their affiliates may construct a separate gas gathering system to connect to the drilling pad or well. any delay in the minimum volume obligations for drilling pad or well connections could reduce our revenues under the gas gathering agreements and our cash available for distribution. if we fail to make a required capital contribution under the applicable governing provisions of our joint venture arrangements, we could be deemed to be in default under the applicable joint venture agreement. under our joint venture arrangements in the utica shale and certain of our mid-continent regions, our joint venture partners could be permitted to fund any deficiency resulting from our failure to make such capital contribution, which would result in a dilution of our ownership interest, or could have the option to purchase all of our existing interest in the joint venture, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to make or increase cash distributions to our unitholders. to the extent that our cash from operations is insufficient to fund our expansion capital expenditures or required joint venture capital contributions, we may be required to incur borrowings or raise capital through public or private debt or equity offerings in order to fund such expansion capital expenditures or required capital contributions. our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and by the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic and capital market conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. in addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional common units may result in significant unitholder dilution and increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. we are required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available for distribution to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. our partnership agreement requires us to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus. the amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus will be subject to review and change by our conflicts committee at least once a year. in years when our estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. if we underestimate the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures begin to exceed our previous estimates. over time, if we do not set aside sufficient cash reserves or have available sufficient sources of financing and make sufficient expenditures to maintain our asset base, we will be unable to pay distributions at the anticipated level and could be required to reduce our distributions. we conduct certain operations through joint ventures that may limit our operational flexibility. our operations in the marcellus shale (through appalachia midstream), niobrara shale, utica shale and certain of our mid-continent regions are conducted through joint venture arrangements, and we may enter additional joint ventures in the future. in a joint venture arrangement, we have less operational flexibility, as actions must be taken in accordance with the applicable governing provisions of the joint venture. in certain cases:     •   we have limited ability to influence or control certain day to day activities affecting the operations;     •   we cannot control the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to these operations;     •   we are dependent on third parties to fund their required share of capital expenditures;     •   we may be subject to restrictions or limitations on our ability to sell or transfer our interests in the jointly owned assets; and     •   we may be forced to offer rights of participation to other joint venture participants in the area of mutual interest.   18 table of contents in addition, our joint venture participants may have obligations that are important to the success of the joint venture, such as the obligation to pay substantial carried costs pertaining to the joint venture and to pay their share of capital and other costs of the joint venture. the performance and ability of the third parties to satisfy their obligations under joint venture arrangements is outside our control. if these parties do not satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, our business may be adversely affected. our joint venture partners may be in a position to take actions contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, and disputes between us and our joint venture partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses. the risks described above or the failure to continue our joint ventures or to resolve disagreements with our joint venture partners could adversely affect our ability to conduct our marcellus, niobrara and utica shale operations or any other business that is the subject of a joint venture, which could in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy. we compete with similar enterprises in our areas of operation other than with respect to natural gas and ngl production dedicated to us pursuant to our gas gathering and processing agreements with producers. our competitors may expand or construct gathering systems and associated infrastructure that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. all of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. part of our growth strategy is to attract volumes to our systems from new producers over time. however, we have historically provided gathering and related services to producers other than chesapeake and its joint interest partners on only a limited basis, and we may not be able to attract any material volumes from new customers to our systems. our efforts to attract new customers may be adversely affected by our need to prioritize allocating capital expenditures towards connecting new operated drilling pads and new operated wells for certain producers as well as our desire to provide our services pursuant to fixed-fee contracts. our potential customers may prefer to obtain services under other forms of contractual arrangements pursuant to which we would be required to assume some direct commodity price exposure. in addition, we will need to establish a reputation with our potential customer base for providing high quality service in order to successfully attract material volumes from new customers. if third-party pipelines or other facilities interconnected to our gathering systems or processing facilities become partially or fully unavailable, or if the volumes we gather or process do not meet the quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. our gas gathering systems and processing facilities connect to other pipelines or facilities, the majority of which are owned by third parties. the continuing operation of such third-party pipelines or facilities is not within our control. these pipelines and other facilities may become unavailable because of testing, turnarounds, line repair, reduced operating pressure, lack of operating capacity, curtailments of receipt or deliveries due to insufficient capacity or for any other reason. if any of these pipelines or facilities become unable to transport natural gas, or if the volumes we gather, transport or process do not meet the natural gas quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. our construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. one of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of new midstream assets. the construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic uncertainties that are beyond our control. if we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all. moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we expand one or more of our gathering systems, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, yet we will not receive any material increases in revenues until the project is completed. moreover, we could construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the construction of additions to our existing gathering assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way. we may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way and may, therefore, be unable to connect new natural gas volumes to our systems or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. if the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, our cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected.   19 table of contents if we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from third parties, our future growth could be reduced, and any acquisitions we make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. our ability to grow may depend, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that increase our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. if we are unable to make such accretive acquisitions from third parties, either because we are (i) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, (ii) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or (iii) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions may be reduced. furthermore, any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things:     •   performance from the acquired assets and businesses that is below the forecasts we used in evaluating the acquisition;     •   an inability to secure adequate customer commitments to use the acquired systems or facilities;     •   an inability to successfully integrate the assets or businesses we acquire;     •   the assumption of unknown liabilities;     •   the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns;     •   an increase in our indebtedness and working capital requirements; and     •   significant changes in our capitalization and results of operations. we may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. we may fail to successfully integrate the assets acquired in the cmo acquisition with our existing business in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders, or fail to realize all of the expected benefits of the acquisition, which could negatively impact our future results of operations. integration of the assets acquired in the cmo acquisition with our existing business will be a complex, time-consuming and costly process, particularly given that the acquired assets significantly increased our size and diversified the geographic areas in which we operate. a failure to successfully integrate the acquired assets with our existing business in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. if any of the risks described in the risk factor immediately above or unanticipated liabilities or costs were to materialize with respect to the cmo acquisition, or if the acquired assets were to perform at levels below the forecasts we used to evaluate them, then the anticipated benefits from the acquisition may not be fully realized, if at all, and our future results of operations could be negatively impacted. the cmo acquisition could expose us to potential significant liabilities. in connection with the cmo acquisition, we assumed certain liabilities, including unknown and contingent liabilities, associated with the acquired assets, including certain environmental liabilities, employee benefit plan liabilities and obligations arising in connection with or relating to the business, purchased assets, facilities or real property of cmo’s business. although cmd has agreed to indemnify us on a limited basis against some of these liabilities, a significant portion of these indemnification obligations will expire within specified time periods after the date the cmo acquisition was completed, and these obligations are generally subject to limits. cmd’s indemnity obligations are generally capped at 20 percent of the total purchase price paid by us in the cmo acquisition. we may not be able to collect on such indemnification because of disputes with cmd or the inability of it (or chesapeake, as guarantor of cmd’s obligations) to pay at the time such indemnification is sought. moreover, there is a risk that we could ultimately be liable for unknown obligations related to the cmo acquisition, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. any loss we incur in connection with these liabilities that is not fully indemnified by cmd could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.   20 table of contents our exposure to direct commodity price risk may increase in the future. we currently generate substantially all of our revenues pursuant to fixed-fee contracts under which we are paid based on the volumes of natural gas that we gather, treat, compress and process rather than the value of the underlying commodity. consequently, our existing operations and cash flows have limited exposure to direct commodity price risk. although we intend to enter into similar fixed-fee contracts with new customers in the future, our efforts to obtain such contractual terms may not be successful. in addition, we may acquire or develop additional midstream assets in the future that have a greater exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices than our current operations. future exposure to the volatility of oil, natural gas and ngl prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. we do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations. we do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and we are, therefore, subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. we obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. if a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the midstream energy business, including:     •   damage to pipelines and facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism;     •   inadvertent damage from construction, farm and utility equipment;     •   leaks of natural gas and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas and other hydrocarbons as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; and     •   other hazards. these risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. these risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. a natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. in addition, we operate in metropolitan areas and that poses unique challenges and risks associated with drilling for natural gas and the installation and operation of midstream infrastructure in urban and suburban communities. we are not fully insured against all risks inherent in our business. for example, we do not have any property insurance on any of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. additionally, we do not have any business interruption/loss of income insurance that would provide coverage in the event of damage to any of our underground pipeline systems. although we are insured for environmental pollution resulting from environmental accidents that occur on a sudden and accidental basis, we may not be insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, some of which may result in toxic tort claims. if a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may substantially increase. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. additionally, we may be unable to recover from prior owners of our assets for potential environmental liabilities pursuant to our indemnification rights. we receive substantially all of our compression capacity from a single provider under long-term fixed price agreements, which could result in disruptions to our operations or our paying above-market prices for our compression requirements in the future. compression of our customers’ natural gas is a key component of the services we provide and our largest operating expense. given that wells produce at progressively lower field pressures as the underlying resources are depleted, field compression is required to maintain sufficient pressure across our gathering systems. we receive substantially all of the compression capacity for our existing gathering systems from midcon compression, l.l.c. (“midcon compression”), a wholly owned subsidiary of chesapeake, under long-term contracts pursuant to which we have agreed to pay specified monthly rates under a fixed-fee structure subject to an annual escalation provision. in   21 table of contents some of our operating areas we have granted midcon compression the exclusive right to provide compression equipment to us through periods ending, depending on the particular region, from 2016 to 2018. thereafter, we have the right to continue receiving such equipment in these areas at market rates to be agreed upon by the parties or to receive compression equipment from third parties. if market rates for compression are less than the specified monthly rates under our compression agreements, then the rates we pay for compression under the agreements to midcon compression may be higher than the rates we could obtain from a third party. in addition, if midcon compression were to default on its obligations under the terms of our agreements, we may not be able to replace such compression capacity in a timely manner or otherwise on terms consistent with our agreements with midcon compression or at all. this could result in our failure to meet our contractual obligations to our customers, which could expose us to damages, reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. restrictions in our revolving credit facility and indentures could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to unitholders and value of our units. we are dependent upon the earnings and cash flow generated by our operations in order to meet our debt service obligations and to make cash distributions to our unitholders. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility, our indentures and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. for example, our revolving credit facility and indentures restrict our ability to, among other things:     •   incur additional debt or issue guarantees;     •   incur or permit certain liens to exist;     •   make certain investments, acquisitions or other restricted payments;     •   dispose of assets;     •   engage in certain types of transactions with affiliates;     •   merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and     •   prepay certain indebtedness. furthermore, our revolving credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of not more than 5.50 to 1.0 (or 5.0 to 1.0 after we have released all collateral upon achieving investment grade status) and an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.5 to 1.0. the provisions of our revolving credit facility and indentures may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. in addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility or indentures could result in an event of default which could enable our lenders or noteholders, subject to the terms and conditions of the revolving credit facility and indentures, to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. if we were unable to repay the accelerated amounts, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such debt. if the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. the revolving credit facility also has cross default provisions that apply to any other indebtedness we may have with an outstanding principal amount in excess of $15 million and the indentures have cross default provisions that apply to other indebtedness with an outstanding principal amount of $50 million. our current indebtedness and debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. our current leverage and future level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following:     •   our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures (including required drilling pad connections and well connections pursuant to certain of our gas gathering agreements as well as acquisitions) or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;     •   our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt;   22 table of contents   •   we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and     •   our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. if our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or issuing equity. we may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. the amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common, subordinated units, and class c units depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income. the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. as a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record net losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income for financial accounting purposes. increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. interest rates may increase in the future. as a result, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. as with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price will be impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. the distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to make cash distributions at our intended levels. due to our lack of industry diversification, adverse developments in our segment of the midstream industry could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and reduce our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. our operations are focused on natural gas gathering, treating, compression and processing services. due to our lack of industry diversification, adverse developments in our current segment of the midstream industry could have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if our operations were more diversified. increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in natural gas production by our customers, which could adversely impact our revenues. an increasing percentage of our customers’ oil and gas production is being developed from unconventional sources, such as deep gas shales. these reservoirs require hydraulic fracturing completion processes to release the gas from the rock so it can flow through casing to the surface. hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate oil and gas production. a number of federal agencies, including the epa and the u.s. department of energy, are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with shale development, including hydraulic fracturing. in addition, the epa has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the safe drinking water act’s underground injection control program and has begun the process of drafting guidance documents related to this assertion of regulatory authority. in addition, some states and municipalities have adopted, and other states and municipalities are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent disclosure and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. at the same time, certain environmental groups have suggested that additional laws may be needed to more closely and uniformly regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed by some members of congress to provide for such regulation. we cannot predict whether any such legislation will ever be enacted and if so, what its provisions would be. if additional levels of regulation and permits were required through the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level, that could lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions that could reduce the volumes of natural gas that move through our gathering systems which would materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.   23 table of contents we may incur significant costs and liabilities in complying with, or as a result of a failure to comply with, new or existing environmental laws and regulations, and changes in environmental laws or regulations could adversely impact our customers’ production and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. our natural gas gathering, treating, compression and processing operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. these laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including obtaining permits to conduct regulated activities, incurring capital or operating expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our pipelines and facilities, and imposing substantial liabilities and remedial obligations relating to pollution or emissions that may result from our operations. numerous governmental authorities, such as the epa and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring regulated parties to undertake difficult and costly actions. failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. in addition, we may experience a delay in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits, which may cause us to lose potential and current customers, interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenues. moreover, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs. further, stricter requirements could negatively impact our customers’ production and operations. for example, on january 26, 2011, the tceq adopted new rules governing emissions of regulated pollutants from oil and natural gas facilities. tceq continues to evaluate existing air regulations and proposed revisions to existing regulations as well as seek to promulgate new regulations that meet or exceed federal requirements. such revised or new rules would establish new limits on emissions from some of our facilities as well as require implementation of best practices and/or technology and new monitoring and record keeping requirements. similar regulatory changes could lead to more stringent air permitting, increased regulation and possible enforcement actions against the regulated community. additionally, on august 16, 2012, the epa issued rules that would establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas processing operations. specifically, the epa’s rule package includes new source performance standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds, and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with oil and natural gas processing activities. these rules, effective october 15, 2012, may require a number of modifications to our customers’ as well as our operations, including the installation of new equipment, which may increase our costs or reduce our customers’ production, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. there is a risk that we may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to historical industry practices, our handling of hydrocarbon wastes and air emissions and discharges related to our operations. joint and several strict liability may be incurred, without regard to fault, under certain of these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for midstream activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties not under our control. private parties, including the owners of the properties through which our gathering systems pass and facilities where our wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for non-compliance, with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. for example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. we may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas services we provide. in december 2009, the epa determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal clean air act. the epa adopted two sets of rules, effective january 2, 2011, regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the clean air act, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of   24 table of contents greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of greenhouse gases from certain large stationary sources. the epa’s rules relating to emissions of greenhouse gases from large stationary sources of emissions are currently subject to a number of legal challenges, but the federal courts have thus far declined to issue any injunctions to prevent the epa from implementing, or requiring state environmental agencies to implement, the rules. with regard to the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gases, on november 30, 2010, the epa published a final rule expanding its existing greenhouse gas emissions reporting rule published in october 2009 to include onshore oil and natural gas processing, transmission, storage, and distribution activities. certain midstream facilities are now required to submit annual reports of greenhouse gas emissions to the epa beginning in september 2012 with 2011 data. in addition, the united states congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and some states, primarily outside of our areas of operations, have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the natural gas we gather, treat and transport. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our assets became subject to regulation by ferc or regulations of state and local agencies were to change, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation facilities are exempt from the jurisdiction of ferc under the nga. although ferc has not made any formal determinations respecting any of our facilities, we believe that our natural gas pipelines and related facilities are engaged in exempt gathering and intrastate transportation and, therefore, are not subject to ferc jurisdiction. if ferc were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility and/or services provided by it are not exempt from ferc regulation, the rates for, and terms and conditions of services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by ferc. such regulation could decrease revenues, increase operating costs, and depending upon the facility in question, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if any of our facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the nga or the natural gas policy act, this could result in the imposition of civil penalties as well as a requirement to disgorge charges collected for such service in excess of the cost-based rate established by ferc. moreover, ferc regulation affects our gathering and compression business generally. ferc’s policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, market manipulation, ratemaking, capacity release and market transparency and market center promotion, directly and indirectly affect our gathering business. in addition, the distinction between ferc-regulated transmission facilities and federally unregulated gathering and intrastate transportation facilities is a fact-based determination made by ferc on a case by case basis; this distinction has also been the subject of regular litigation and change. the classification and regulation of our gathering and intrastate transportation facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by ferc, the courts or congress. state regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements and complaint-based rate regulation. in recent years, ferc has taken a more light-handed approach to regulation of the gathering activities of interstate pipeline transmission companies, which has resulted in a number of such companies transferring gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. as a result of these activities, natural gas gathering may begin to receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels. we cannot predict what new or different regulations federal and state regulatory agencies may adopt, or what effect subsequent regulations may have on our activities. such regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if our services agreement with chesapeake is terminated, or if chesapeake fails to provide us with adequate services, we will have to obtain those services internally or through third-party arrangements. we depend on chesapeake to provide us certain general and administrative services and any additional services we may request pursuant to our services agreement. the term of the provision of general and administrative services by chesapeake under the services agreement will continue until december 31, 2013, subject to certain conditions and limitations. though chesapeake will agree to perform such services using no less than a reasonable level of care in accordance with industry standards, if chesapeake fails to provide us adequate services, or if the services agreement is terminated for any reason, we will have to obtain these services internally or through third-party arrangements which may result in increased costs to us.   25 table of contents if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units. prior to our ipo in july 2010, we were not required to file reports with the sec. upon the completion of the offering, we became subject to the public reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“gaap”), but prior to december 31, 2011, our internal accounting controls were not required to meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. our efforts to maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, which we refer to as section 404. for example, section 404 requires us, among other things, to annually review and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. we were required to comply with section 404 for our fiscal year ended december 31, 2011. any failure to maintain effective internal controls or to improve our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our or our independent registered public accounting firm’s conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls. ineffective internal controls will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. risks inherent in an investment in us the gip ii entities and williams, through their joint ownership of access midstream ventures, indirectly own and control our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. our general partner and its affiliates, including the gip ii entities, williams and access midstream ventures, have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our common unitholders. access midstream ventures, which is owned and controlled by the gip ii entities and williams, owns and controls our general partner and appoints all of the officers and directors of our general partner, some of whom are also officers and directors of the gip ii entities and/or williams and access midstream ventures. although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is beneficial to its owner, access midstream ventures. conflicts of interest will arise between the gip ii entities, williams, access midstream ventures and our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. in resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of the gip ii entities, williams and/or access midstream ventures over our interests and the interests of our common unitholders. these conflicts include the following situations, among others:     •   neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires the gip ii entities, williams or access midstream ventures to pursue a business strategy that favors us. for example, williams is not a party to any agreement that prohibits it from competing against us in our gas gathering and processing operations and for gathering, processing and acquisition opportunities. it is possible that williams could block us from pursuing opportunities in which williams has a competitive interest.     •   our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as the gip ii entities, williams or access midstream ventures, in resolving conflicts of interest.     •   our partnership agreement limits the liability of and reduces the fiduciary duties owed by our general partner, and also restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.     •   except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval.     •   our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders.   26 table of contents   •   our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. this determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units.     •   our general partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us.     •   our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period.     •   our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $120 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. this cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights.     •   our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf.     •   our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations.     •   our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80 percent of the common units.     •   our general partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us.     •   our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.     •   our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. this election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner’s fiduciary duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. in addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. we expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. as a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. in addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. to the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. there are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our revolving credit facility on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. the incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.   27 table of contents our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common and subordinated units. our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify and reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. for example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, or otherwise free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders. this entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include:     •   how to allocate business opportunities among us and its affiliates;     •   whether to exercise its limited call right;     •   how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns;     •   whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; and     •   whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. by purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder agrees to become bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. for example, our partnership agreement:     •   provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;     •   provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith, meaning that it believed that the decision was in the best interest of our partnership;     •   provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or their assignees resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and     •   provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our unitholders if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:     (a) approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval;     (b) approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates;     (c) on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or     (d) fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us. in connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith. if an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of   28 table of contents interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in subclauses (c) and (d) above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or the holders of our common units. this could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. our general partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0 percent) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. if our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and general partner units. the number of common units to be issued to our general partner will equal the number of common units which would have entitled the holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. our general partner’s general partner interest in us (currently two percent) will be maintained at the percentage that existed immediately prior to the reset election. we anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. it is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. as a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. unitholders have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors. the board of directors of our general partner consists of nine members, three of whom are independent. access midstream ventures, which is owned and controlled by the gip ii entities and williams, is the sole member of our general partner and has the right to appoint our general partner’s entire board of directors, including our three independent directors. if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner. as a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner currently without the gip ii entities and williams’ consent. our unitholders are currently unable to remove our general partner because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to prevent its removal. the vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3 percent of all outstanding common, subordinated, class b and class c units, voting together as a single class, is required to remove our general partner. as of february 12, 2013, the gip ii entities and williams together own an aggregate of 66.4 percent of our outstanding common, subordinated, class b and class c units. also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and no units held by the holders of the subordinated units or their affiliates are voted in favor of that removal, all subordinated units held by our general partner and its affiliates will automatically be converted into common units. if no units held by any holder of subordinated units or its affiliates are voted in favor of that removal, all subordinated units will convert automatically into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. a removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely   29 table of contents affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business. our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our common units. unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by a provision of our partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their direct transferees and their indirect transferees approved by our general partner (which approval may be granted in its sole discretion) and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of access midstream ventures to transfer all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. the new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers. our general partner is jointly owned and controlled indirectly by the gip ii entities and williams. as a result, there is a possibility of deadlocks occurring with respect to important governance or other business decisions affecting us to be made by our general partner, which could adversely affect our business. our general partner has sole responsibility for conducting our business and for managing our operations and is controlled by its sole member, access midstream ventures. as of february 12, 2013, the gip ii entities and williams each directly own a 50 percent membership interest in, and jointly control, access midstream ventures. access midstream ventures has the right to appoint our general partner’s entire board of directors, including our three independent directors. we expect that conflicts may arise in the future between the gip ii entities, on the one hand, and williams, on the other hand, with regard to our governance, business and operations. important governance or other business decisions could be delayed as a result of a deadlock between the gip ii entities and williams, which could adversely affect our business. we may issue additional units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. the issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:     •   our existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;     •   the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;     •   because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase;     •   the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;     •   the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and     •   the market price of the common units may decline. the gip ii entities and williams may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. as of february 12, 2013, the gip ii entities and williams together hold an aggregate of approximately 33.7 million common units, approximately 69.1 million subordinated units, approximately 11.9 million class b units and approximately 11.2 million class c units. all of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination periods and may convert earlier under certain circumstances. after the record date for the distribution on common units for the fiscal quarters ending december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2014, each class   30 table of contents c unit and class b unit, respectively, will become convertible into a common unit on a one-for-one basis at the option of the holder thereof. additionally, we have agreed to provide the gip ii entities and williams with certain registration rights with respect to their units. the sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. our general partner has a call right that may require you to sell your units at an undesirable time or price. if at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. as a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return or a negative return on your investment. you may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. as of february 12, 2013, the gip ii entities and williams together own approximately 34.6 percent (exclusive of subordinated, class b and class c units) of our outstanding common units. at the end of the various subordination and conversion periods, assuming no additional issuances of common units (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated, class b and class c units) or other events that affect any of the gip ii entities’ and williams’ ownership, the gip ii entities and williams will own an aggregate of approximately 66.4 percent of our outstanding common units. your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. a general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. our partnership is organized under delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. the limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. you could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that:     •   we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or     •   your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. under section 17-607 of the delaware revised uniform limited partnership act (“delaware act”) we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. substituted limited partners are liable both for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that were known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the partnership agreement. neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. tax risks to common unitholders our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. if the internal revenue service (“irs”) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. the anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. we have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the irs on this or any other tax matter affecting us. despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are so treated, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.   31 table of contents if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35 percent, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to you. because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. if we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to you. changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to you and, therefore, negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. the tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. the present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. for example, from time to time members of congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. we are unable to predict whether any such changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted; however, any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. if the irs contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any irs contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. we have not requested a ruling from the irs with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. the irs may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the irs’s positions may ultimately be sustained. it may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take, and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. a court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. any contest with the irs, and the outcome of any irs contest, may adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. in addition, the costs of any contest with the irs will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. you may be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. because our unitholders are treated as partners in us for federal income tax purposes, we will allocate a share of our taxable income to you that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, and you may be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. you may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. if you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any,   32 table of contents of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. in addition, because the amount realized may include a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. tax-exempt entities and non-u.s. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as iras), and non-u.s. persons raises issues unique to them. for example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including iras and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. distributions to non-u.s. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-u.s. persons will be required to file u.s. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. if you are a tax exempt entity or a non-u.s. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. we treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. the irs may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing treasury regulations. a successful irs challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. it also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could result in audit adjustments to your tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. consequently, a successful irs challenge could have a negative impact on the value of our common units. we prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the last day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. the irs may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. we prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the last day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. the use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing treasury regulations. recently, however, the u.s. treasury department issued proposed treasury regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. if the irs were to challenge our proration method or new treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. if so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. we have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. the irs may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.   33 table of contents when we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. in that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their internal revenue code section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. the irs may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. a successful irs challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. it also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. the sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. we will be considered to have technically terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. for purposes of determining whether the 50 percent threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same unit will be counted only once. while we would continue our existence as a delaware limited partnership, our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two schedules k-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year. our termination could also result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. in the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. if treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a technical termination occurred. the irs has recently announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the irs grants special relief, among other things, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single schedule k-1 to unitholders for the tax years in which the termination occurs. as a result of investing in our common units, you may become subject to state, local and non-u.s. taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. in addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including non-u.s., state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. you will likely be required to file non-u.s., state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. we own assets and conduct business in arkansas, kansas, louisiana, maryland, new york, ohio, oklahoma, pennsylvania, texas, virginia, west virginia and wyoming. each of these states, other than texas, currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals. most of these states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. as we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. it is your responsibility to file all u.s. federal, non-u.s., state and local tax returns.   item 1b. unresolved