item 1a. risk factors   risks relating to our business   our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis.   our sales and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect this trend will continue. factors which affect our results include:   • the timing, cancellation or rescheduling of customer orders and shipments;   • the pricing and mix of products sold;   • our ability to obtain components and subassemblies from contract manufacturers and suppliers;   • variations in manufacturing efficiencies; and   • research and development and new product introductions.   many of these factors are beyond our control. our performance in any one fiscal quarter is not necessarily indicative of any financial trends or future performance.   the cyclicality of our end user markets could harm our financial results.   many of the end markets we serve, including but not limited to the defense and commercial wireless markets, have historically been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. the factors leading to and the severity and length of a downturn are very difficult to predict and there can be no assurance that we will appropriately anticipate changes in the underlying end markets we serve or that any increased levels of business activity will continue as a trend into the future. if we fail to anticipate changes in the end markets we serve, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   we rely on sales to federal government entities under prime contracts and subcontracts. a loss or reduction of such contracts, a failure to obtain new contracts or a reduction of sales under such contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business.   we derived approximately 28% of our net sales for fiscal 2013 from contracts with agencies of the federal government or subcontracts with prime defense contractors or subcontractors of the federal government. the loss or significant curtailment of any of these government contracts or subcontracts, or failure to exercise renewal options or enter into new contracts or subcontracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. continuation and the exercise of renewal options on existing government contracts and subcontracts and new government contracts and subcontracts are, among other things, contingent upon the availability of adequate funding for the various federal government agencies with which we and prime government contractors do business. changes in federal government spending, such as those changes caused by sequestration, could directly affect our financial performance. among the factors that could impact federal government spending and which would reduce our federal government contracting and subcontracting business are:   - 13 -     • a significant decline in, or reapportioning of, spending by the federal government;   • changes, delays or cancellations of federal government programs or requirements;   • the adoption of new laws or regulations that affect companies that provide services to the federal government;   • federal government shutdowns or other delays in the government appropriations process;   • curtailment of the federal government’s use of third-party service firms;   • changes in the political climate, including with regard to the funding or operation of the services we provide; and   • general economic conditions.   the current administration and congress are under increasing pressure to reduce the federal budget deficit. this could result in a general decline in u.s. defense spending and could cause federal government agencies to reduce their purchases under contracts, exercise their rights to terminate contracts in whole or in part, to issue temporary stop work orders or decline to exercise options to renew contracts, all of which could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues.   certain of our products and international sales may be subject to international traffic in arms regulations, the export administration regulations, foreign corrupt practices act and other u.s. and foreign government laws, regulations, policies and practices, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.   our international sales, for which we also use foreign representatives and consultants, are subject to u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including the arms export control act (“aeca”) and its implementing regulations, the itar and the foreign corrupt practices act and other export laws and regulations, as well as foreign government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices which may differ from the u.s. government regulations in this regard. the itar requires export licenses from the u.s. department of state for products shipped outside the u.s. that have military or strategic applications. in this connection, from time to time we have filed certain voluntary disclosures with the state department identifying possible inadvertent violations of the itar. we also have identified other itar non-compliance in the pre-acquisition business activities of certain acquired companies. see item 3 - “legal proceedings.”   we have recently entered into a consent agreement with the u.s. department of state to resolve certain outstanding violations of the aeca and the itar during the period from 1999 to 2009 that we had disclosed voluntarily (see item 3 - “legal proceedings”), which has resulted in the imposition of a cash penalty of $8.0 million payable without interest over a two year period, $4.0 million of which is suspended and eligible for credit based on pre and post consent agreement compliance expenditures and investments made by the company and approved by the state department. compliance with, and performance of, the requirements of the consent agreement may result in an appreciable diversion of management time and in the incurrence of legal and other expenses that are not eligible for credit. in the event that a determination is made that we have failed to fulfill the terms of the consent agreement or we or any entity that we have acquired is responsible for other compliance or law enforcement issues under the aeca or the itar, or found to have violated or conspired to violate the aeca or the itar, we may be subject to substantial monetary penalties that we are unable to quantify at this time, and/or suspension or revocation of our export privileges and criminal sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   - 14 -     we are also subject to the export administration regulations, or ear. the ear regulates the export of certain “dual use” items and technologies and, in some instances, requires a license from the u.s. department of commerce. we can give no assurance that under either the itar or the ear we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses and authorizations or that certain sales will not be prevented or delayed.   we are also subject to, and must comply with, the u. s. foreign corrupt practices act, or the fcpa, and similar world-wide anti-corruption laws, including the u.k. bribery act of 2010. these acts generally prohibit both us and our third party intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of acquiring or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. we are required as well to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to fully and accurately reflect our transactions. we have formulated and implemented strict diligence, training and reporting programs and practices that mandate and are intended to ensure compliance with these anti-corruption laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced government corruption to some degree, however, and, in certain circumstances, the fcpa and our programs and policies may conflict with local customs and practices. if we or our any of our local intermediaries have failed to comply with the requirements of the fcpa, governmental authorities in the united states could seek to impose severe criminal and civil penalties. the assertion of violations of the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws could disrupt our business and, if proven, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the “dodd-frank act”), required the sec to establish new disclosure and reporting requirements regarding specified minerals originating in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured by companies required to file reports with the sec. the final rules implementing these requirements, as released recently by the sec, could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including semiconductor devices. in addition, there could be significant costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of such minerals used in our products. also, because our supply chain is complex, we may face commercial challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we have implemented and otherwise may become obliged to publicly disclose those efforts with regard to conflict minerals. moreover, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require us to certify that all of the components of our products are conflict free earlier than statutorily required which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so.   our future operating results are dependent on the growth in our customers’ businesses and on our ability to identify and enter new markets.   our growth is dependent on the growth in the sales of our customers’ products as well as the development by our customers of new products. if we fail to anticipate changes in our customers’ businesses and their changing product needs or successfully identify and enter new markets, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively impacted. we cannot assure you that the markets we serve will grow in the future, that our existing and new products will meet the requirements of these markets or that we can maintain adequate gross margins or profits in these markets. a decline in demand in one or several of our end-user markets could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   - 15 -     our industry is highly competitive and if we are not able to successfully compete, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline.   we operate in a highly competitive industry. current and prospective customers for our products evaluate our capabilities against the merits of our direct competitors. we compete primarily on the basis of technology and performance. for certain products, we also compete on price. some of our competitors are well-established and have greater market share and manufacturing, financial, research and development and marketing resources than we do. we also compete with emerging companies that are attempting to sell their products in specialized markets, and with the internal capabilities of many of our significant customers, including bae and honeywell international. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current market share with respect to any of our products. a loss of market share to our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, a significant portion of our contracts, including those with the federal government and commercial customers, are subject to commercial bidding, both upon initial issuance and subsequent renewal. if we are unable to successfully compete in the bidding process or if we fail to obtain renewal, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and if we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products that meet customer requirements for performance and reliability, we may lose market share and our net sales may suffer.   the process of developing new products for our markets is complex and uncertain, and failure to keep pace with our competitors’ technological development, to develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our results of operations. we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will eventually result in products that the market will accept. we must accurately forecast volumes, mix of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed. if we do not succeed, we may be left with inventories of obsolete products or we may not have enough of some products available to meet customer demand, which could lead to reduced sales and higher expenses.   we design custom products to meet specific requirements of our customers. the amount and timing of revenue from such products can affect our quarterly operating results.   the design and sales cycle for our custom products, from initial contact by our sales force to the commencement of shipments of those products in commercial quantities, may be lengthy. in this process, our sales and application engineers work closely with the customer to analyze the customer’s system requirements and establish a technical specification for the custom product. we then select a process, evaluate components, and establish assembly and test procedures before manufacturing in commercial quantities can begin. the length of this cycle is influenced by many factors, including the difficulty of the technical specification, the novelty and complexity of the design and the customer’s procurement processes. our customers typically do not commit to purchase significant quantities of the custom product until they are ready to commence volume shipments of their own system or equipment. our receipt of substantial revenue from sales of a custom product often depends on that customer’s commercial success in manufacturing and selling its system or equipment that incorporates our custom product. as a result, a significant period may elapse between our investment of time and resources in designing and developing a custom product and our receipt of substantial revenue from sales of that custom product.   the length of this process may increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or change its plans related to its system or equipment. such a cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause us to lose anticipated sales. in addition, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if a significant customer curtails, reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle, chooses not to release its system or equipment that contains our custom products, or is not successful in the sale and marketing of its system or equipment that contains our custom products.   additionally, some customers may be unlikely to change their supplier due to the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and potentially redesigning their system or equipment. so, if we fail to achieve initial design wins in the customer’s qualification process, we may not regain the opportunity for significant sales to this customer for a lengthy period of time.   - 16 -     the global recession and potential for tightened credit markets could once again adversely affect us.   the recent global recession, due in part to failures of and difficulties caused by financial institutions, have resulted in unprecedented government intervention in the u.s., europe and other regions of the world. if macro-economic concerns were to worsen, credit markets could begin to tighten once again. in turn, our customers could experience heightened financial difficulties and, as a result, could modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products or services, which could cause our sales to decline, or become unable to make payment to us for amounts due and owing. in addition, our suppliers could experience credit or other financial difficulties that could result in delays in their ability to supply us with necessary raw materials, components or finished products. these risks may make it extremely difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could result in an asset impairment. the occurrence of any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   our major customers account for a sizable portion of our revenue, and the loss of, or a reduction in, orders from these customers could result in a decline in revenue.   revenue derived from our ten largest customers as a percentage of our annual revenue was 31% for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2013. for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2013, sales to our largest customer represented approximately 6% of our net sales. our major customers often use our products in multiple systems or programs, sometimes developed by different business units within the customer’s organization, each having differing product life cycles, end customers and market dynamics. while the composition of our top ten customers varies from year to year, we expect that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future. it is possible that any of our major customers could terminate its purchasing arrangements with us or significantly reduce or delay the amount of our products that it orders, purchase products from our competitors or develop its own products internally. the loss of, or a reduction in, orders from any major customer could cause a decline in our overall revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   in the event that certain of our customers encounter financial difficulties and fail to pay us, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.   we manufacture products to customer specifications and generally purchase raw materials in response to customer orders. in addition, we may commit significant amounts of capital to maintain inventory in anticipation of customer orders. in the event that our customers, for whom we maintain inventory, experience financial difficulties, we may be unable to sell such inventory at its current profit margin, if at all. in such an event, our gross margins would decline. in addition, if the financial condition of a significant portion of our customer base deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to pay us amounts owed in respect of a significant amount of outstanding receivables, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   federal government contracts may be terminated by the federal government at any time prior to their completion and contain other unfavorable provisions, which could lead to unexpected loss of sales and reduction in backlog.   under the terms of federal government contracts, the federal government may unilaterally:   • terminate or modify existing contracts;   • reduce the value of existing contracts through partial termination;   • delay the payment of our invoices by government payment offices;   • audit our contract-related costs; and   - 17 -     • suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of any alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations.   the federal government can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us or its prime contractors either for its convenience or if we or its prime contractors default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and subcontracts. if the federal government or its prime contractors terminate and/or materially modify any of our contracts or if any applicable options are not exercised, our failure to replace sales generated from such contracts would result in lower sales and could adversely affect our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   our backlog as of june 30, 2013 was $259 million, of which approximately 43% represented firm contracts with agencies of the u.s. government or prime defense contractors or subcontractors of the u.s. government. there can be no assurance that any of the contracts comprising our backlog will result in actual sales in any particular period or that the actual sales from such contracts will equal our backlog estimates. furthermore, there can be no assurance that any contract included in our backlog that generates sales will be profitable.   our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit or other actions, including suspension or debarment, by the federal government.   as a federal government contractor, we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. these laws and regulations affect how we do business with the federal government and our prime government contractors and subcontractors, and in some instances, impose added costs on our business. federal government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. these agencies review each contractor’s contract performance, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. such agencies also review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed.   in addition, government contract payments received by us for allowable direct and indirect costs are subject to adjustment after audit by government auditors and repayment to the government if the payments exceed allowable costs as defined in the government contracts.   as a federal government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which companies with solely commercial customers are not subject, the results of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. if we were suspended or prohibited from contracting with the federal government generally, or any significant federal government agency specifically, if our reputation or relationship with federal government agencies were impaired or if the federal government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   under some of our government contracts, we are required to maintain secure facilities and to obtain security clearances for personnel involved in performance of the contract, in compliance with applicable federal standards. if we were unable to comply with these requirements, or if personnel critical to our performance of these contracts were to lose their security clearances, we might be unable to perform these contracts or compete for other projects of this nature, which could adversely affect our revenue.   - 18 -     our federal government contracts are subject to competitive bidding, both upon initial issuance and subsequent renewal. if we are unable to successfully compete in the bidding process or if we fail to receive renewal, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   a significant portion of our federal government contracts are awarded through a competitive bidding process, including upon renewal, and we expect that this will continue to be the case. there often is significant competition and pricing pressure as a result of this process.   the competitive bidding process presents a number of risks such as:   • we must expend substantial funds and time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts, which could detract attention from other parts of our business;   • we may be unable to estimate accurately the resources and cost that will be required to complete any contract we win, which could result in substantial cost overruns; and   • we may encounter expense and delay if our competitors protest or challenge awards of contracts to us, and any such protest or challenge could result in a requirement to resubmit bids on modified specifications or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract.   the government contracts for which we compete typically have multiple option periods, and if we fail to win a contract, we generally will be unable to compete again for that contract for several years. if we fail to win new contracts or to receive renewal contracts, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   new products are subject to greater technology, design and operational risks, and a delay in introducing new products could harm our competitive position.   our future success is highly dependent upon the timely development and introduction of competitive new products at acceptable margins. however, there are greater design and operational risks associated with new products. the inability of our suppliers to produce advanced products, delays in commencing or maintaining volume shipments of new products, the discovery of product, process, software, or programming defects or failures and any related product returns could each have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation.   we have experienced from time to time in the past, and expect to experience in the future, difficulties and delays in achieving satisfactory, sustainable yields on new products. yield problems increase the cost of our new products as well as the time it takes us to bring them to market, which can create inventory shortages and dissatisfied customers. any prolonged inability to obtain adequate yields or deliveries of new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   our failure to detect unknown defects in our products could materially harm our relationship with customers, our reputation and our business.   we may not be able to anticipate all of the possible performance or reliability problems that could arise with our existing or new products, which could result in significant product liability or warranty claims. in addition, any defects found in our products could result in a loss of sales or market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation, indemnification claims, litigation, increased insurance costs and increased service costs, any of which could discourage customers from purchasing our products and materially harm our business.   - 19 -     our purchase agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. however, the limitation of liability provisions contained in these agreements may not be effective as a result of federal, state or local laws, or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the united states or other countries. the insurance we maintain to protect against claims associated with the use of our products may not adequately cover all claims asserted against us. in addition, even if ultimately unsuccessful, such claims could result in costly litigation, divert our management’s time and resources, and damage our customer relationships.   our ams segment depends on third-party contractors to fabricate semiconductor products and we outsource other portions of our business; a failure to perform by these third parties may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation.   as part of our efforts to minimize the amount of required capital investment in facilities, equipment and labor and increase our ability to quickly respond to changes in technology and customer requirements, our ams segment outsources a substantial portion of its semiconductor fabrication processes and we outsource certain other manufacturing and engineering functions to third parties. this reliance on third-party manufacturers and engineers involves significant risks, including lack of control over capacity allocation, delivery schedules, the resolution of technical difficulties and the development of new processes. we rely heavily on our third-party manufacturers to be able to deliver materials, know-how and technology to us without encumbrances. disputes regarding the ownership of or rights in certain third-party intellectual property may preclude our third-party manufacturers from fulfilling our requirements at a reasonable cost or, in some cases, at all. a shortage of raw materials or production capacity could lead any of our third-party manufacturers to allocate available capacity to other customers, or to internal uses. if these third parties fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality and cost levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer and our costs could increase. for example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers’ orders on a timely basis, which could lead to a loss in sales. the ability of these third parties to perform is largely outside of our control.   non-performance by our suppliers may adversely affect our operations.   because we purchase various types of raw materials and component parts from suppliers, we may be materially and adversely affected by the failure of those suppliers to perform as expected. this non-performance may consist of delivery delays or failures caused by production issues or delivery of non-conforming products. the risk of non-performance may also result from the insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our suppliers. our efforts to protect against and to minimize these risks may not always be effective. we may occasionally seek to engage new suppliers with which we have little or no experience. the use of new suppliers can pose technical, quality and other risks.   we use specialized technologies and know-how to design, develop and manufacture our products. our inability to protect our intellectual property could hurt our competitive position, harm our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations.   as a technology company, we rely on our patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and proprietary know-how and concepts. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights, both in the united states and in foreign countries, through a combination of patent, trademark, copyrights and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements. because of the differences in foreign trademark, copyright, patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the united states. our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we believe that while the protection afforded by patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws may provide some advantages, the competitive position of participants in our industry is principally determined by such factors as the technical and creative skills of their personnel, the frequency of their new product developments and their ability to anticipate and rapidly respond to evolving market requirements. to the extent that a competitor effectively uses its intellectual property portfolio, including patents, to prevent us from selling products that allegedly infringe such competitor’s products, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.   - 20 -     we have from time to time applied for patent protection relating to certain existing and proposed products, processes and services, but we do not have an active patent application strategy. when we do apply for patents, we generally apply in those countries where we intend to make, have made, use or sell patented products; however, we may not accurately predict all of the countries where patent protection will ultimately be desirable. if we fail to timely file a patent application in any such country, we may be precluded from doing so at a later date. furthermore, we cannot be assured that any of our patent applications will be approved. we also cannot be assured that the patents issued as a result of our foreign patent applications will have the same scope of coverage as our united states patents. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. further, we cannot be assured that competitors will not infringe our patents, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents.   some of our proprietary technology may have been developed under, or in connection with, u.s. government contracts or other federal funding agreements. with respect to technology developed under such agreements, the u.s. government may retain a nonexclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to use the technology on behalf of the united states throughout the world. in addition, the u.s. government may obtain additional rights to such technology, or our ability to exploit such technology may be limited.   we rely on our trademarks, tradenames and brand names to distinguish our products and services from the products and services of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. in the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products and services, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources towards marketing new brands. further, we cannot be assured that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks.   we also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. it is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. we cannot be assured that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. if we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our sales could decrease.   if third parties claim that we infringe upon or misappropriate their intellectual property rights, our net sales, gross margins and expenses could be adversely affected.   we face the risk of claims that we have infringed or misappropriated third parties’ intellectual property rights. we have been or are currently involved in various litigation matters involving claims of patent infringement and trade secret misappropriation. any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could:   • be expensive and time consuming to defend;   • cause us to cease making or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;   • require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products, if feasible;   • divert management’s attention and resources; and   • require us to enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property.   - 21 -     any licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. a successful claim of infringement against us could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license agreements, or stop the sale of certain products, which could adversely affect our net sales, gross margins and expenses and harm our future prospects.   many patent applications in the united states are maintained in secrecy for a period of time after they are filed, and therefore there is a risk that we could adopt a technology without knowledge of a pending patent application, which technology would infringe a third party patent once that patent is issued.   we license third-party technologies for the development of certain of our products, and if we fail to maintain these licenses and are unable to secure alternative licenses on reasonable terms, our business could be adversely affected.   we license third-party technologies that are integrated into certain of our products. if we are unable to continue to use or license these technologies on reasonable terms, or if these technologies fail to operate properly, we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner and our ability to make these products could be harmed. in addition, licensed technology may be subject to claims that it infringes others’ technology, and we may lose access to or have restrictions placed on our use of the licensed technology. certain technology, which we license, has been, or is currently, subject to such claims.   our licenses of third-party technologies have certain requirements that we must meet to maintain the license. for instance, if we fail to meet certain minimum royalty or purchase amounts, or meet delivery deadlines, certain licenses may be converted from an exclusive license to a non-exclusive license, thus allowing the licensors to license the technology to our competitors. we cannot guarantee that third-party technologies that we license will not be licensed to our competitors. in the future, we may need to obtain additional licenses, renew existing license agreements or otherwise replace existing technology. we are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed or the technology can be replaced on acceptable terms, or at all. in addition, if we are unable to successfully license technology from third parties to develop future products, we may not be able to develop such products in a timely manner or at all.   as part of our business strategy, we may complete acquisitions or divest non-strategic businesses and product lines and undertake restructuring efforts. these actions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.   as part of our business strategy, we engage in discussions with third parties regarding, and enter into agreements relating to, acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures in order to manage our product and technology portfolios and further our strategic objectives. we also continually look for ways to increase the profitability of our operations through restructuring efforts and to consolidate operations across facilities where synergies exist. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable acquisition, alliance or divestiture candidates, complete these transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and integrate acquired companies. integration and other risks of acquisitions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple acquisitions are pursued simultaneously.   the integration of acquisitions may make the completion and integration of subsequent acquisitions more difficult. however, if we fail to identify and complete these transactions, we may be required to expend resources to internally develop products and technology or may be at a competitive disadvantage or may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   acquisitions may require us to integrate different company cultures, management teams and business infrastructures and otherwise manage integration risks. even if an acquisition is successfully integrated, we may not receive the expected benefits of the transaction.   - 22 -     a successful sale or divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to effectively transfer assets and liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to the purchaser, identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we wish to keep and reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets of the business.   moreover, under the terms of the consent agreement that we recently have entered into with the state department to resolve outstanding violations of the aeca and the itar during the period from 1999 to 2009 (see item 3 – “legal proceedings”), in the event of a sale by us of any of our subsidiaries, business units or operating divisions that are engaged in itar regulated activities or if we are party to a corporate merger involving any of such entities, we are obliged during the two year term of the consent agreement, to notify the purchaser or merger party in writing, that the terms of the consent agreement will apply to the divested subsidiary, business unit or division, and to require the purchaser or merging party to acknowledge in writing, prior to the sale or merger, that the purchaser or merging party will be bound by the terms and conditions of the consent agreement unless a waiver by the state department from the application of this requirement is secured in advance of the transaction.   managing acquisitions and divestitures requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert management’s attention from our other business operations. acquisitions, including abandoned acquisitions, also may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings.   restructuring activities may result in business disruptions and may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits anticipated. further, the benefits may be realized later than expected and the cost of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. if these measures are not successful, we may need to undertake additional cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. moreover, we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our cost reduction and restructuring efforts prove ineffective, and our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans as well as our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   we rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and engineering staff and must retain and attract qualified engineers and other highly skilled personnel in order to grow our business successfully.   our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and our highly qualified team of engineers, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in our business. in order to be successful, we must retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, marketing and information technology support positions. in particular, our product generation efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified engineers. attracting and retaining skilled workers and qualified sales representatives is also critical to us. experienced management and technical, marketing and support personnel in the microelectronics and test solutions industries are in demand and competition for their talents is intense. employee retention may be a particularly challenging issue following acquisitions or divestitures since we also must continue to motivate employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals, which may be particularly difficult due to the potential distractions related to integrating the acquired operations or divesting businesses to be sold. if we lose the services of any key personnel, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   we may be required to make significant payments to members of our management in the event their employment with us is terminated.   we are a party to employment agreements with each of leonard borow, our president and chief executive officer, john buyko, our executive vice president and president of our ams division, john adamovich, our senior vice president and chief financial officer, edward wactlar, our senior vice president, general counsel and secretary, andrew kaminsky, our senior vice president of corporate development, investor relations and human resources and charles badlato, our vice president and treasurer. in the event we terminate the employment of any of these executives, or in certain cases, if such executives terminate their employment with us, such executives will be entitled to receive certain severance and related payments. at june 30, 2013 the maximum aggregate amount payable by us to messrs. borow, buyko, adamovich, wactlar, kaminsky and badlato upon the termination of their respective employment agreements with us is $10.7 million.   - 23 -     we rely on our information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business.   our information technology, or it, systems are an integral part of our business. we depend on our it systems for scheduling, sales order entry, purchasing, materials management, accounting and production functions. our it systems also allow us to ship products to our customers on a timely basis, maintain cost-effective operations and provide a high level of customer service. some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all eventualities. a serious disruption to our it systems could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   our business could be negatively impacted by cyber security threats.   we face various cyber security threats, including cyber security attacks to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to proprietary or sensitive information. although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure to such threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent cyber security threats from materializing. if any of these threats were to materialize, our operations may be disrupted and we may experience a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the implementation of additional security measures. a cyber security breach may also result in legal claims or proceedings against us and could damage our reputation.   due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes could harm our future sales, expenses and financial condition.   our future sales, costs and expenses could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including:   • changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions;   • longer accounts receivable cycles;   • trade protection measures;   • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;   • differing technology standards and/or customer requirements; and   • import or export licensing requirements, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components or lead to penalties or restrictions.   for the year ended june 30, 2013, sales of our products to foreign customers accounted for approximately 46% of our net sales. as of june 30, 2013, we employed approximately 700 employees overseas. in addition, a portion of our product and component manufacturing, along with key suppliers, is located outside of the united states, and also could be disrupted by some of the international factors described above.   - 24 -     we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.   we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks that are inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the british pound and the euro. for the year ended june 30, 2013, sales of our products to foreign customers accounted for approximately 46% of our net sales. in addition, a portion of our product and component manufacturing, along with key suppliers, are located outside of the united states. failure to sufficiently hedge or otherwise manage foreign currency risks properly could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   compliance with and changes in environmental, health and safety laws regulating the present and past operations of our business and the business of predecessor companies could increase the costs of producing our products and expose us to environmental claims.   our business is subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental, health and safety matters, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges and the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. violations of such laws and regulations can lead to substantial fines and penalties and other civil or criminal sanctions. we incur costs associated with compliance with these laws and regulations and we face risks of additional costs and liabilities including those related to the investigation and remediation of, or claims for personal injuries or property damages associated with, past or present contamination, at current as well as former properties utilized by us and at third-party disposal sites, regardless of fault or the legality of the original activities that led to such contamination.   in addition, future developments, such as changes in laws and regulations or the enforcement thereof, more stringent enforcement or interpretation thereof and claims for property damage or personal injury could cause us to incur substantial losses or expenditures. although we believe we are materially compliant with all applicable current laws and regulations, any new or modified laws or regulations, or the discovery of any currently unknown non-compliance or contamination, could increase the cost of producing our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   efforts to comply with laws and regulations applicable to public companies will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with those laws and regulations may adversely affect us.   the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the dodd-frank act of 2010, as well as the related rules and regulations promulgated by the securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange that are applicable to us have increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. we could also experience greater outside and internal costs as a result of our continuing efforts to comply with the sarbanes-oxley act, including section 404. the effort to comply with our legal and regulatory obligations may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our operating performance. in addition, we may identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we cannot remedy in a timely manner.   changes in tax rates or policies or changes to our tax liabilities could affect operating results.   we are subject to taxation in the united states and various other countries, including the united kingdom, sweden, germany and china. significant judgment is required to determine our worldwide tax liabilities and our future annual and quarterly tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in applicable tax laws, composition of earnings in various taxing jurisdictions with differing tax rates, repatriation of foreign earnings to the united states or our valuation and utilization of deferred tax assets and liabilities. in addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other taxing authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, we regularly evaluate the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, and there can be no assurance that any final determination by a taxing authority will not result in additional tax liability which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.   - 25 -      accounting standards periodically change and the application of our accounting policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.   the regulatory bodies that establish accounting standards, including, among others, the financial accounting standards board and the sec, periodically revise or issue new financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. the effect of such revised or new standards on our consolidated financial statements can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, our management must exercise judgment in appropriately applying many of our accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles. in some cases, the accounting policy or method chosen might be reasonable under the circumstances and yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported if we had selected a different policy or method. accounting policies are critical to fairly presenting our results of operations and financial condition and may require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain.   our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses.   our business is subject to numerous inherent risks, particularly unplanned events such as inclement weather, explosions, fires, terrorist acts, other accidents, equipment failures and transportation interruptions. while our insurance coverage could offset losses relating to some of these types of events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected to the extent any such losses are not covered by our insurance.   risks related to our indebtedness   instability in financial markets could adversely affect our ability to access additional capital.   in recent years, the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets have reached unprecedented levels. if these conditions continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience a material adverse effect on our ability to borrow money, including under our senior secured credit facility, or have access to capital, if needed. although our lenders, through for instance a $57.1 million line of credit, have made commitments to make funds available to us in a timely fashion, our lenders may be unable or unwilling to lend money. in addition, if we determine that it is appropriate or necessary to raise capital in the future, the future cost of raising funds through the debt or equity markets may be more expensive or those markets may be unavailable. if we were unable to raise funds through debt or equity markets, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations.   we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of june 30, 2013, we had $587.0 million of debt outstanding under our senior secured credit facility, as amended on may 29, 2013. additionally, as of june 30, 2013, we had the ability to borrow an additional $57.1 million under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility.   our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could:   • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;   • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;   • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our worldwide cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;   - 26 -     • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;   • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;   • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and   • adversely impact our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions in our debt agreements, and, in turn, could result in a default under our debt agreements.   increases in interest rates could increase interest costs under our senior secured credit facility.   we are subject to interest rate risk in connection with borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, including any outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility. we currently do not have interest rate swap agreements hedging this debt. as of june 30, 2013, $587.0 million was outstanding under the term-loan portion of the senior secured credit facility, bearing interest at 4.50% based on the adjusted libor rate, which consists of a floor of 100 basis points, plus an applicable margin of 350 basis points above the floor. our outstanding debt balance is subject to variable interest rates dependent upon fluctuations of the libor rate. based on the libor rate at june 30, 2013, which was 0.27%, an increase of 1% in interest rates would only result in a 0.27% increase on the interest rate relating to our outstanding borrowings due to the 1.00% libor floor, or a $1.6 million increase in our annual interest expense. an increase of 1% in the libor rate above the 1.00% floor would result in a $6.0 million increase in our annual interest expense. in addition, as of june 30, 2013, our revolving credit facility of $57.1 million, which would bear interest at 3.77% based on the libor rate of 0.27% plus 350 basis points, was undrawn. assuming the entire amount available to us was outstanding, a 1% change in interest rates would result in a $579,000 change in our annual interest expense. any debt we incur in the future may also bear interest at floating rates.   despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage.   we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. the terms of our debt allow us to incur substantial amounts of additional debt, subject to certain limitations. for example, we have up to $57.1 million of availability under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility and we have the ability to increase the aggregate amount of our senior secured credit facility by up to an aggregate amount equal to (i) $150 million or (ii) such greater amount if as of the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter, the senior secured leverage ratio would be 4.50:1.00 or less after giving effect to such greater amount as if such greater amount were drawn in its entirety as of such date, in each case without the consent of any person other than the institutions agreeing to provide all or any portion of such increase. such institutions have not committed to any increases in our senior secured credit facility. if new indebtedness is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face would intensify.   we will require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness and other obligations. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.   our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control.   our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior secured credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. in addition, to the extent we have consolidated excess cash flow, as defined in the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility, we must use specified portions of the excess cash flow to prepay the senior secured credit facility. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof. we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.   - 27 -     in addition, if for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we would be in default under the terms of our agreement governing our outstanding debt. if such a default were to occur, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facility immediately due and payable, and the lenders would not be obligated to continue to advance funds to us. if the amount outstanding under this debt agreement is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the amount owed to our debt holders.   our senior secured credit facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions.   our senior secured credit facility contains restrictions on our activities, including but not limited to covenants that restrict us and our restricted subsidiaries, as defined in our senior secured credit facility, from:   • incurring additional indebtedness and issuing disqualified stock or preferred stock;   • making certain investments or other restricted payments;   • paying dividends and making other distributions with respect to capital stock, or repurchasing, redeeming or retiring capital stock or subordinated debt;   • selling or otherwise disposing of our assets;   • under certain circumstances, issuing or selling equity interests;   • creating liens on our assets;   • consolidating or merging with, or acquiring in excess of specified annual limitations, another business, or selling or disposing of all or substantially all of our assets; and   • entering into certain transactions with our affiliates.   in addition, under our senior secured credit facility, we are required to comply with a maximum total leverage ratio test, only if, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter there are any revolving loans, including swing line loans or letters of credit outstanding. if we fail to maintain compliance with the maximum total leverage ratio test under our senior secured credit facility in those circumstances, and do not remedy any non-compliance through the issuance of additional equity interests pursuant to the limited cure right set forth therein or by obtaining an amendment, we will be in default. the senior secured credit facility also requires us to use specified portions of our consolidated excess cash flow, as defined in the agreement governing our senior secured credit facility, to prepay the senior secured credit facility.   the restrictions in our senior secured credit facility may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. we also may incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. we may not be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements, and we may not be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. the breach of any of these covenants and restrictions could result in a default under our senior secured credit facility. an event of default under our debt agreement could permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable.   - 28 -     aeroflex holding is a holding company with no significant business operations of its own and depends on its subsidiaries for cash.   aeroflex holding is a holding company with no business operations of its own. our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. dividends and cash from our subsidiaries will be our principal sources of cash to repay indebtedness and fund operations. accordingly, our ability to repay our indebtedness and fund operations is dependent on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries, some of which are outside the united states. distribution of funds from foreign subsidiaries may result in tax consequences that impact the amounts of funds ultimately received by aeroflex holding from such distributions. in addition, aeroflex, our direct subsidiary and primary obligor under our outstanding indebtedness, is also dependent to a significant extent on the cash flow of its subsidiaries in order to meet its debt service obligations.   the agreement governing our debt instrument significantly restricts our subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring cash or other assets to any party other than us. in addition, some of our subsidiaries are subject to minimum regulatory capital requirements, which may limit their ability to pay dividends or distributions or make loans to us. furthermore, our subsidiaries are permitted under the agreement governing our debt instrument to incur additional indebtedness that may severely restrict or prohibit the making of distributions, the payment of dividends or the making of loans by our subsidiaries to us. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. any right we have to receive any assets of or distributions from any of our subsidiaries upon the bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization of any such subsidiary, or to realize proceeds from the sale of their assets, will be junior to the claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by that subsidiary.   risks related to ownership of our common stock   our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid.   shares of our common stock were sold in our ipo in november 2010 at a price of $13.50 per share and our common stock has subsequently traded on the new york stock exchange at closing sales prices between $5.25 and $20.10 per share. an active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained. if an active, liquid and orderly market is not sustained, you may have difficulty selling any of our common stock that you have acquired. furthermore, the market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:   • the failure of securities analysts to continue to cover our common stock, or changes in financial estimates or recommendations by analysts;   • actual or anticipated variations in our or our competitors’ operating results;   • failure by us to meet analysts’ projections or guidance that we may give the market;   • future sales of common stock;   • investor perceptions of us and our industry;   • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission;   • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis;   • our commencement of, or involvement in, litigation;   • departure of key personnel;   - 29 -       • changes in governmental regulations;   • general economic conditions; and   • the other factors described elsewhere in these “risk factors.”   as a result of these factors, investors in our common stock may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their investment, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. in addition, the stock market has at certain times, including recently, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. these broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of publicly traded shares of a company, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could materially and adversely harm our results of operations and financial condition.   we are controlled by the sponsors, whose interests may not be aligned with yours.   the sponsors, through their outstanding membership interests in the parent llc, control 76.5% of our common stock. as a result, the sponsors control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. in connection with our ipo, we entered into a director designation agreement that provides for the right of the parent llc to nominate designees to our board of directors. in addition, the limited liability company agreement of the parent llc provides that the parent llc may not permit us to take certain actions without the consent of each of the sponsors. seven of our thirteen directors are employees of the sponsors. the sponsors will also have sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. the interests of the sponsors may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock.   additionally, each of the sponsors is in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. the sponsors may also pursue, for their own accounts, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation renounces our interest and expectancy in corporate opportunities presented to the parent llc or any of its members, including the sponsors, or any of their respective officers, directors, agents, employees, stockholders, members, partners, affiliates and subsidiaries (other than us and our subsidiaries), or any of our directors who is not an employee (other than opportunities presented to such directors in writing solely in their capacity as our director) and provides that none of such persons or entities have any duty to disclose such potential corporate opportunities to us or refrain from competing with us, even if such opportunities are ones we or our subsidiaries might reasonably be deemed to have pursued or had the desire to pursue. furthermore, such persons or entities may take such corporate opportunities for themselves or offer them to other persons or entities. our sponsors may also consider combining our operations with those of another company. so long as the sponsors continue to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions.   - 30 -     in addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that so long as the parent llc owns a majority of our then-outstanding common stock, the advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals do not apply to it. furthermore, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of our common stock at any time that the parent llc owns at least a majority of our common stock. at any time that the parent llc does not own at least a majority of our common stock: (i) amendments to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to directors (other than removal of directors), voting, amendments (except as described below), advance notice bylaws, exculpation, indemnification and stockholder meetings will require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of our common stock; (ii) amendments to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to corporate opportunities and business combinations with interested stockholders and to any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation that requires the vote of at least 80% of the stockholders (including the provisions relating to removal of directors and amendments to our amended and restated bylaws by stockholders at such times as the parent llc does not own a majority of our outstanding common stock) will require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of our then outstanding common stock; and (iii) amendments to all other provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will require the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of our common stock.   we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the new york stock exchange rules and, as a result, we qualify for, and we rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.   the parent llc controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. as a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the new york stock exchange corporate governance standards. under these rules, if more than 50% of the voting power of a listed company is held by an individual, group or another company, the listed company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including:   • the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors;   • the requirement that we have a corporate governance and nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities;   • the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and   • the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the corporate governance and nominating committee and the compensation committee.   we currently utilize these exemptions and intend to continue to utilize these exemptions. as a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors, our corporate governance and nominating committee and compensation committee do not consist entirely of independent directors and such committees are not subject to annual performance evaluations. accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange.   even if the sponsors no longer control us in the future, certain provisions of our charter documents, the director designation agreement between us and the parent llc and our financing agreements, as well as delaware law, could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price.   our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that:   • permit us to issue, without any further vote or action by our stockholders, 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and, with respect to each series, to fix the number of shares constituting the series and the designation of the series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of such series, and the preferences and other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions, of the shares of the series;   - 31 -     • limit our stockholders’ ability to call special meetings; and   • make section 203 of delaware general corporation law applicable to business combinations with interested stockholders under certain circumstances.   in addition, our director designation agreement with the parent llc provides for the right of the parent llc to nominate to our board of directors (i) such number of individuals as are designated by the parent llc until such time as we are required to comply with the requirement under the new york stock exchange corporate governance standards that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors and (ii) during such time as (a) the parent llc owns less than a majority but at least one share of our outstanding common stock and (b) we are required to comply with the requirement under the new york stock exchange corporate governance standards that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors, four individuals designated by the parent llc.   in addition, upon the occurrence of certain kinds of change of control events, amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facility will be accelerated. the foregoing provision may impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders.   if a substantial number of shares become available for sale and are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline.   sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. the perception in the public market that our controlling stockholder might sell shares of common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and could impair our future ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. as of june 30, 2013 we had 84,936,582 shares of common stock outstanding, of which 65 million shares were held by the parent llc, constituting 76.5% of our outstanding common stock. we and the parent llc may sell shares of common stock in subsequent public or private offerings. we also may issue additional shares of common stock to finance future acquisitions. the parent llc is a party to a registration rights agreement with us which grants the parent llc and the sponsors rights to require us to effect the registration of their shares of common stock. in addition, if we propose to register any of our common stock under the securities act, whether for our own account or otherwise, the parent llc is entitled to include its shares of common stock in that registration.   we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future and the instruments governing our current indebtedness contain various covenants that may limit our ability to pay dividends.   we do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. our board of directors may, in its discretion, modify or repeal our dividend policy. the declaration and payment of dividends depends on various factors, including: our net income, financial conditions, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. in addition, we are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. as a result, we are dependent upon cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments on our common stock.   the instrument governing our current indebtedness contains covenants which place limitations on the amount of dividends we may pay. in addition, under delaware law, our board of directors may declare dividends only to the extent of our “surplus” (which is defined as total assets at fair market value minus total liabilities, minus statutory capital), or if there is no surplus, out of net profits for the then current and/or immediately preceding fiscal year.   - 32 -     we plan to continue to issue restricted stock and/or options, which have the potential to dilute stockholder value and cause the price of our common stock to decline.   we expect to continue to offer restricted stock, stock options and/or other forms of stock-based compensation to our directors, officers, employees and consultants. if the restricted stock that we issue vests, or the options that we issue are exercised, and those shares are sold into the public market, the market price of our common stock may decline. in addition, the availability of shares of common stock for award under our equity incentive plan, or the grant of restricted stock, stock options or other forms of stock-based compensation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   item 1b. unresolved