item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to numerous risks. we caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the sec, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by applicable law. you should, however, consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the sec. risks related to our business if demand for our energy efficiency and renewable energy solutions does not develop as we expect, or if current business conditions related to converting awarded projects to signed contracts do not improve, our revenue will suffer and our business will be harmed. we believe, and our growth plans assume, that the market for energy efficiency and renewable energy solutions will continue to grow, that we will increase our penetration of this market and that our revenue from selling into this market will 12 table of contents continue to increase over time. if our expectations as to the size of this market and our ability to sell our products and services in this market are not correct, our revenue will suffer and our business will be harmed. continued u.s. federal fiscal uncertainty not only has contributed to a lengthening of our sales cycle for u.s. federal projects, but also has adversely affected both municipal and commercial customers across most geographic regions. we have observed among our existing and prospective customer base increased scrutiny of decisions about spending and about incurring debt to finance projects. for example, we have observed increased use of outside consultants and advisors, as well as adoption of additional approval steps, by many of our customers, which has resulted in a lengthening of the sales cycle. as a result, during 2012 we experienced an unusually sustained market disruption that affected all geographic regions and all levels of government. if current conditions do not improve, or if we are unable to successfully demonstrate to customers that our solutions can be implemented in a budget-neutral manner, our revenue will suffer and our business will be harmed. in order to secure contracts for new projects, we typically face a long and variable selling cycle that requires significant resource commitments and requires a long lead time before we realize revenue. the sales, design and construction process for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects historically has taken from 12 to 36 months on average, with sales to federal government and housing authority customers tending to require the longest sales processes. our existing and potential customers generally follow extended budgeting and procurement processes, and sometimes must engage in regulatory approval processes, related to our services. beginning in 2012, we have observed increased use of outside consultants and advisors by our customers, which has resulted in a lengthening of the sales cycle. most of our potential customers issue an rfp, as part of their consideration of alternatives for their proposed project. in preparation for responding to an rfp, we typically conduct a preliminary audit of the customer’s needs and the opportunity to reduce its energy costs. for projects involving a renewable energy plant that is not located on a customer’s site or that uses sources of energy not within the customer’s control, the sales process also involves the identification of sites with attractive sources of renewable energy, such as a landfill or a site with high winds, and it may involve obtaining necessary rights and governmental permits to develop a project on that site. if we are awarded a project, we then perform a more detailed audit of the customer’s facilities, which serves as the basis for the final specifications of the project. we then must negotiate and execute a contract with the customer. in addition, we or the customer typically need to obtain financing for the project. this extended sales process requires the dedication of significant time by our sales and management personnel and our use of significant financial resources, with no certainty of success or recovery of our related expenses. a potential customer may go through the entire sales process and not accept our proposal. all of these factors can contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance and increase the likelihood that our operating results in a particular quarter will fall below investor expectations. these factors could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results due to increased spending by us that is not offset by increased revenue. we may not recognize all revenue from our backlog or receive all payments anticipated under awarded projects and customer contracts. as of december 31, 2012, we had backlog of approximately $367 million in expected future revenue under signed customer contracts for the installation or construction of projects, which we sometimes refer to as fully-contracted backlog; and we also had been awarded projects for which we do not yet have signed customer contracts, which we sometimes refer to as awarded projects, with estimated total future revenue of an additional $1.1 billion. as of december 31, 2011, we had fully-contracted backlog of approximately $478 million; and we also had been awarded projects for which we had not yet signed customer contracts with estimated total future revenue of an additional $741 million. as of december 31, 2010, we had fully-contracted backlog of approximately $651 million; and we also had been awarded projects for which we had not yet signed customer contracts with estimated total future revenue of an additional $483 million. we also expect to realize recurring revenue both under long-term o&m contracts and under energy supply contracts for renewable energy plants that we own. in addition, we expect to generate revenue from solar and other product and service sales. our customers have the right under some circumstances to terminate contracts or defer the timing of our services and their payments to us. in addition, our government contracts are subject to the risks described below under “provisions in government contracts may harm our business, financial condition and operating results.” the payment estimates for projects that have been awarded to us but for which we have not yet signed contracts have been prepared by management and are based upon a number of assumptions, including that the size and scope of the awarded projects will not change prior to the signing of customer contracts, that we or our customers will be able to obtain any necessary third-party financing for the awarded projects, and that 13 table of contents we and our customers will reach agreement on and execute contracts for the awarded projects. we are not always able to enter into a contract for an awarded project on the terms proposed. as a result, we may not receive all of the revenue that we include in the awarded projects component of our backlog or that we estimate we will receive under awarded projects. if we do not receive all of the revenue we currently expect to receive, our future operating results will be adversely affected. in addition, a delay in the receipt of revenue, even if such revenue is eventually received, may cause our operating results for a particular quarter to fall below our expectations. our business depends in part on federal, state, provincial and local government support for energy efficiency and renewable energy, and a decline in such support could harm our business. we depend in part on legislation and government policies that support energy efficiency and renewable energy projects and that enhance the economic feasibility of our energy efficiency services and small-scale renewable energy projects. the u.s. and canadian federal governments and several of the states and provinces in which we operate support our existing and potential customers’ investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy through legislation and regulations that authorize and regulate the manner in which certain governmental entities do business with us, encourage or subsidize governmental procurement of our services, provide regulatory, tax and other incentives to others to procure our services and provide us with tax and other incentives that reduce our costs or increase our revenue. we and our customers and our prospective customers frequently depend on these programs to help justify the costs associated with, and to finance, energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. if any of these incentives are adversely amended, eliminated or not extended beyond their current expiration dates, or if funding for these incentives is reduced, it could adversely affect our ability to complete projects for existing customers and obtain project commitments from new customers. a delay or failure by government agencies to administer, or make procurements under, these programs in a timely and efficient manner could have a material adverse effect on our existing and potential customers’ willingness to enter into project commitments with us. in addition, some of our customers purchase electricity, thermal energy or processed lfg from our renewable energy plants, or purchase other energy services from us, because tax, energy and environmental laws encourage or in some cases require these customers to procure power from renewable or low-emission sources, or to reduce their electricity use. changes to these tax, energy and environmental laws could reduce our customers’ incentives and mandates to purchase the kinds of services that we supply, and could thereby adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a significant decline in the fiscal health of federal, state, provincial and local governments could reduce demand for our energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. historically, including for 2011 and 2012, more than 80% of our revenue has been derived from sales to federal, state, provincial or local governmental entities, including public housing authorities and public universities. we expect revenue from this market sector to continue to comprise a significant percentage of our revenue for the forseeable future. a significant decline in the fiscal health of these existing and potential customers may make it difficult for them to enter into contracts for our services or to obtain financing necessary to fund such contracts, or may cause them to seek to renegotiate or terminate existing agreements with us. provisions in our government contracts may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. a significant majority of our fully-contracted backlog and awarded projects is attributable to customers that are government entities. our contracts with the federal government and its agencies, and with state, provincial and local governments, customarily contain provisions that give the government substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions that allow the government to: • terminate existing contracts, in whole or in part, for any reason or no reason; • reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts; • decline to award future contracts if actual or apparent organizational conflicts of interest are discovered, or to impose organizational conflict mitigation measures as a condition of eligibility for an award; • suspend or debar the contractor from doing business with the government or a specific government agency; and • pursue criminal or civil remedies under the false claims act, false statements act and similar remedy provisions unique to government contracting. 14 table of contents generally, government contracts contain provisions permitting unilateral termination or modification, in whole or in part, at the government’s convenience. under general principles of government contracting law, if the government terminates a contract for convenience, the terminated company may recover only its incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. if the government terminates a contract for default, the defaulting company is entitled to recover costs incurred and associated profits on accepted items only and may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items from another source. in most of our contracts with the federal government, the government has agreed to make a payment to us in the event that it terminates the agreement early. the termination payment is designed to compensate us for the cost of construction plus financing costs and profit on the work completed. in espcs for governmental entities, the methodologies for computing energy savings may be less favorable than for non-governmental customers and may be modified during the contract period. we may be liable for price reductions if the projected savings cannot be substantiated. in addition to the right of the federal government to terminate its contracts with us, federal government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing approval by congress of the necessary spending to honor such contracts. congress often appropriates funds for a program on a september 30 fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. consequently, at the beginning of many major governmental programs, contracts often may not be fully funded, and additional monies are then committed to the contract only if, as and when appropriations are made by congress for future fiscal years. similar practices are likely to also affect the availability of funding for our contracts with canadian, as well as state, provincial and local, government entities. if one or more of our government contracts were terminated or reduced, or if appropriations for the funding of one or more of our contracts is delayed or terminated, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. government contracts normally contain additional terms and conditions that may increase our costs of doing business, reduce our profits and expose us to liability for failure to comply with these terms and conditions. these include, for example: • specialized accounting systems unique to government contracting, which may include mandatory compliance with federal cost accounting standards; • mandatory financial audits and potential liability for adjustments in contract prices; • public disclosure of contracts, which may include pricing information; • mandatory socioeconomic compliance requirements, including small business promotion, labor, environmental and u.s. manufacturing requirements; and • requirements for maintaining current facility and/or personnel security clearances to access certain government facilities or to maintain certain records, and related industrial security compliance requirements. our contracts with canadian governmental entities frequently involve similar risks. any failure by us to comply with these governmental requirements could adversely affect our business. our credit facilities and debt instruments contain financial and operating restrictions that may limit our business activities and our access to credit. provisions in our credit facilities and debt instruments impose restrictions on our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt, or debt related to federal projects in excess of specified limits; • pay cash dividends and make distributions; • make certain investments and acquisitions; • guarantee the indebtedness of others or our subsidiaries; • redeem or repurchase capital stock; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • engage in new lines of business; 15 table of contents • sell, lease or transfer certain parts of our business or property; • enter into sale-leaseback arrangements; and • merge or consolidate. these agreements also contain other customary covenants, including covenants that require us to meet specified financial ratios and financial tests. we have a $60 million revolving senior secured credit facility that matures in june 2016. availability under the revolving credit facility is based on two times our ebitda for the preceding four quarters, and we are required to maintain a minimum ebitda of $40 million on a rolling four-quarter basis. this facility may not be sufficient to meet our needs as our business grows, and we may be unable to expand it if necessary on acceptable terms, or at all. we may not be able to comply with these covenants in the future. our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default and cause us to be unable to borrow under our credit facilities and debt instruments. in addition to preventing additional borrowings under these agreements, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under these agreements, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. if an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. if the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all. the projects we undertake for our customers generally require significant capital, which our customers or we may finance through third parties, and such financing may not be available to our customers or to us on favorable terms, if at all. our projects are typically financed by third parties. the cost of these projects to our customers can reach up to $200 million. for our energy efficiency projects, we often assist our customers in arranging third-party financing. for small-scale renewable energy plants that we own, we typically rely on a combination of our working capital and debt to finance construction costs. the significant disruptions in the global credit and capital markets in the last several years have made it more difficult for our customers and us to obtain financing on acceptable terms or, in some cases, at all. if we or our customers are unable to raise funds on acceptable terms when needed, we may be unable to secure customer contracts, the size of contracts we do obtain may be smaller or we could be required to delay the development and construction of projects, reduce the scope of those projects or otherwise restrict our operations. any inability by us or our customers to raise the funds necessary to finance our projects could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may fall below expectations in any particular fiscal quarter. our operating results are difficult to predict and have historically fluctuated from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. as a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. if our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts that follow our company in any period, the trading price of our class a common stock would likely decline. factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • our ability to arrange financing for projects; • changes in federal state and local government policies and programs related to, or a reduction in governmental support for, energy efficiency and renewable energy; • the length of time to convert awarded projects to signed contracts; • the timing of work we do on projects where we recognize revenue on a percentage of completion basis; • seasonality in construction and in demand for our products and services; • a customer’s decision to delay our work on, or other risks involved with, a particular project; • availability and costs of labor and equipment; 16 table of contents • the addition of new customers or the loss of existing customers; • the size and scale of new customer projects; • the availability of bonding for our projects; • our ability to control costs, including operating expenses; • changes in the mix of our products and services; • the rates at which customers renew their o&m contracts with us; • the length of our sales cycle; • the productivity and growth of our sales force; • the timing of opening of new offices or making other significant investments in the growth of our business, as the revenue we hope to generate from those expenses often lags several quarters behind those expenses; • changes in pricing by us or our competitors, or the need to provide discounts to win business; • costs related to the acquisition and integration of companies or assets; • general economic trends, including changes in energy efficiency spending or geopolitical events such as war or incidents of terrorism; and • future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies. our operating expenses do not always vary directly with revenue and may be difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our expectations, we may not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a revenue shortfall could have a disproportionate effect on our operating results for that quarter. we may not be able to maintain or increase our profitability. we have been profitable on an annual basis since the year ended december 31, 2002. however, we have incurred net losses in certain quarters since that time. we may not succeed in maintaining our profitability and could incur quarterly or annual losses in future periods. we intend to increase our expenses as we grow our business and expand into new geographic locations, and we expect to continue to incur additional accounting, legal and other expenses associated with being a public company. if our revenue does not increase sufficiently to offset these increases in costs, our operating results will be harmed. our historical operating results should not be considered as necessarily indicative of future operating results and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase our profitability in the future. our business is affected by seasonal trends and construction cycles, and these trends and cycles could have an adverse effect on our operating results. we are subject to seasonal fluctuations and construction cycles, particularly in climates that experience colder weather during the winter months, such as the northern united states and canada, or at educational institutions, where large projects are typically carried out during summer months when their facilities are unoccupied. in addition, government customers, many of which have fiscal years that do not coincide with ours, typically follow annual procurement cycles and appropriate funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. further, government contracting cycles can be affected by the timing of, and delays in, the legislative process related to government programs and incentives that help drive demand for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. as a result, our revenue and operating income in the third quarter are typically higher, and our revenue and operating income in the first quarter are typically lower, than in other quarters of the year. as a result of such fluctuations, we may occasionally experience declines in revenue or earnings as compared to the immediately preceding quarter, and comparisons of our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or regulations, particularly changes in tax incentives in support of energy efficiency.  for example, certain deductions and investment credits relating to energy efficiency are scheduled to expire at the ends of the year in 2013 and 2016.  further, there 17 table of contents are increasing calls for “comprehensive tax reform,” which could significantly alter the existing tax code, including the removal of these deductions and credits prior to their scheduled expiration.  if these deductions and credits expire without being extended, or otherwise are eliminated, our effective tax rate would increase, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. in addition, like other companies, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the u.s. internal revenue service and other tax authorities; our u.s. federal tax returns for 2009 through 2011 are currently under audit.  though we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our net income. changes in the laws and regulations governing the public procurement of espcs could have a material impact on our business. we derive a significant amount of our revenue from espcs with our government customers. while federal, state and local government rules governing such contracts vary, such rules may, for example, permit the funding of such projects through long-term financing arrangements; permit long-term payback periods from the savings realized through such contracts; allow units of government to exclude debt related to such projects from the calculation of their statutory debt limitation; allow for award of contracts on a “best value” instead of “lowest cost” basis; and allow for the use of sole source providers. to the extent these rules become more restrictive in the future, our business could be harmed. failure of third parties to manufacture quality products or provide reliable services in a timely manner could cause delays in the delivery of our services and completion of our projects, which could damage our reputation, have a negative impact on our relationships with our customers and adversely affect our growth. our success depends on our ability to provide services and complete projects in a timely manner, which in part depends on the ability of third parties to provide us with timely and reliable services and products, such as boilers, chillers, cogeneration systems, pv panels, lighting and other complex components. in providing our services and completing our projects, we rely on products that meet our design specifications and components manufactured and supplied by third parties, as well as on services performed by subcontractors. we rely on subcontractors to perform substantially all of the construction and installation work related to our projects. we provide all design and engineering work related to, and act as the general contractor for, our projects. we have established relationships with subcontractors that we believe to be reliable and capable of producing satisfactory results, but we often need to engage subcontractors with whom we have no experience for our projects. if any of our subcontractors are unable to provide services that meet or exceed our customers’ expectations or satisfy our contractual commitments, our reputation, business and operating results could be harmed. the warranties provided by our third-party suppliers and subcontractors typically limit any direct harm we might experience as a result of our relying on their products and services. however, there can be no assurance that a supplier or subcontractor will be willing or able to fulfill its contractual obligations and make necessary repairs or replace equipment. in addition, these warranties generally expire within one to five years or may be of limited scope or provide limited remedies. if we are unable to avail ourselves of warranty protection, we may incur liability to our customers or additional costs related to the affected products and components, including replacement and installation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. moreover, any delays, malfunctions, inefficiencies or interruptions in these products or services — even if covered by warranties — could adversely affect the quality and performance of our solutions. this could cause us to experience difficulty retaining current customers and attracting new customers, and could harm our brand, reputation and growth. in addition, any significant interruption or delay by our suppliers in the manufacture or delivery of products or services on which we depend could require us to expend considerable time, effort and expense to establish alternate sources for such products and services. we may have liability to our customers under our espcs if our projects fail to deliver the energy use reductions to which we are committed under the contract. for our energy efficiency projects, we typically enter into espcs under which we commit that the projects will satisfy agreed-upon performance standards appropriate to the project. these commitments are typically structured as guarantees of increased energy efficiency that are based on the design, capacity, efficiency or operation of the specific equipment and systems we install. our commitments generally fall into three categories: pre-agreed, equipment-level and whole building-level. under a 18 table of contents pre-agreed efficiency commitment, our customer reviews the project design in advance and agrees that, upon or shortly after completion of installation of the specified equipment comprising the project, the pre-agreed increase in energy efficiency will have been met. under an equipment-level commitment, we commit to a level of increased energy efficiency based on the difference in use measured first with the existing equipment and then with the replacement equipment upon completion of installation. a whole building-level commitment requires measurement and verification of increased energy efficiency for a whole building, often based on readings of the utility meter where usage is measured. depending on the project, the measurement and verification may be required only once, upon installation, based on an analysis of one or more sample installations, or may be required to be repeated at agreed upon intervals generally over periods of up to 20 years. under our contracts, we typically do not take responsibility for a wide variety of factors outside our control and exclude or adjust for such factors in commitment calculations. these factors include variations in energy prices and utility rates, weather, facility occupancy schedules, the amount of energy-using equipment in a facility, and failure of the customer to operate or maintain the project properly. we rely in part on warranties from our equipment suppliers and subcontractors to back-stop the warranties we provide to our customers and, where appropriate, pass on the warranties to our customers. however, the warranties we provide to our customers are sometimes broader in scope or longer in duration than the corresponding warranties we receive from our suppliers and subcontractors, and we bear the risk for any differences, as well as the risk of warranty default by our suppliers and subcontractors. typically, our performance commitments apply to the aggregate overall performance of a project rather than to individual energy efficiency measures. therefore, to the extent an individual measure underperforms, it may be offset by other measures that overperform during the same period. in the event that an energy efficiency project does not perform according to the agreed-upon specifications, our agreements typically allow us to satisfy our obligation by adjusting or modifying the installed equipment, installing additional measures to provide substitute energy savings, or paying the customer for lost energy savings based on the assumed conditions specified in the agreement. from our inception to december 31, 2012, our total payments to customers and incurred costs under our energy reduction commitments, after customer acceptance of a project, have been less than $100,000 in the aggregate. however, we may incur additional or increased liabilities or expenses under our espcs in the future. such liabilities or expenses could be substantial, and they could materially harm our business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, any disputes with a customer over the extent to which we bear responsibility to improve performance or make payments to the customer may diminish our prospects for future business from that customer or damage our reputation in the marketplace. we may assume responsibility under customer contracts for factors outside our control, including, in connection with some customer projects, the risk that fuel prices will increase. we typically do not take responsibility under our contracts for a wide variety of factors outside our control. we have, however, in a limited number of contracts assumed some level of risk and responsibility for certain factors — sometimes only to the extent that variations exceed specified thresholds — and may also do so under certain contracts in the future, particularly in our contracts for renewable energy projects. for example, under a contract for the construction and operation of a cogeneration facility at the u.s. department of energy savannah river site in south carolina, a subsidiary of ours is exposed to the risk that the price of the biomass that will be used to fuel the cogeneration facility may rise during the 19-year performance period of the contract. several provisions in that contract mitigate the price risk, including a specified annual increase in the price our subsidiary charges the customer for biomass fuel, incentives for the customer to make on-site biomass available to the cogeneration facility, an escrow fund from which our subsidiary can withdraw funds should the price of biomass in a given year exceed that charged to the customer, the right to reduce the amount of steam generated by the use of biomass to a stipulated minimum level and the ability to use other fuels, such as used tires, to produce up to 30% of the facility’s total production. in addition, although we typically structure our contracts so that our obligation to supply a customer with lfg, electricity or steam, for example, does not exceed the quantity produced by the production facility, in some circumstances we may commit to supply a customer with specified minimum quantities based on our projections of the facility’s production capacity. in such circumstances, if we are unable to meet such commitments, we may be required to incur additional costs or face penalties. despite the steps we have taken to mitigate risks under these and other contracts, such steps may not be sufficient to avoid the need to incur increased costs to satisfy our commitments, and such costs could be material. increased costs that we are unable to pass through to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 19 table of contents our business depends on experienced and skilled personnel and substantial specialty subcontractor resources, and if we lose key personnel or if we are unable to attract and integrate additional skilled personnel, it will be more difficult for us to manage our business and complete projects. the success of our business depends in large part on the skill of our personnel. accordingly, it is critical that we maintain, and continue to build, a highly experienced management team and specialized workforce, including engineers, project and construction management, and business development and sales professionals. in addition, our construction projects require a significant amount of trade labor resources, such as electricians, mechanics, carpenters, masons and other skilled workers, as well as certain specialty subcontractor skills. competition for personnel, particularly those with expertise in the energy services and renewable energy industries, is high, and identifying candidates with the appropriate qualifications can be costly and difficult. we may not be able to hire the necessary personnel to implement our business strategy given our anticipated hiring needs, or we may need to provide higher compensation or more training to our personnel than we currently anticipate. in the event we are unable to attract, hire and retain the requisite personnel and subcontractors, we may experience delays in completing projects in accordance with project schedules and budgets, which may have an adverse effect on our financial results, harm our reputation and cause us to curtail our pursuit of new projects. further, any increase in demand for personnel and specialty subcontractors may result in higher costs, causing us to exceed the budget on a project, which in turn may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and harm our relationships with our customers. our future success is particularly dependent on the vision, skills, experience and effort of our senior management team, including our executive officers and our founder, principal stockholder, president and chief executive officer, george p. sakellaris. if we were to lose the services of any of our executive officers or key employees, our ability to effectively manage our operations and implement our strategy could be harmed and our business may suffer. if we cannot obtain surety bonds and letters of credit, our ability to operate may be restricted. federal and state laws require us to secure the performance of certain long-term obligations through surety bonds and letters of credit. in addition, we are occasionally required to provide bid bonds or performance bonds to secure our performance under energy efficiency contracts. in the past, our sureties required that george p. sakellaris, who is our founder, principal stockholder, president and chief executive officer, personally indemnify them for losses associated with the bonds they have provided on our behalf. in the event that mr. sakellaris no longer controls our company, our sureties may reevaluate the surety relationship. our ability to obtain required bonds or letters of credit depends in large part upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and reputation, and external factors beyond our control, including the overall capacity of the surety market. our ability to obtain letters of credit under our existing credit arrangements is limited. we are not permitted to have more than $10 million in letters of credit outstanding at any time (including letters of credit that have been drawn upon but not repaid on our behalf) under the terms of our senior secured credit facility. moreover, our use of letters of credit limits our borrowing capability under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility as the aggregate amount of letters of credit we have outstanding at any time reduces our borrowing capacity under the facility by an equal amount. in the future, we may have difficulty procuring or maintaining surety bonds or letters of credit, and obtaining them may become more expensive, require us to post cash collateral or otherwise involve unfavorable terms. because we are sometimes required to have performance bonds or letters of credit in place before projects can commence or continue, our failure to obtain or maintain those bonds and letters of credit would adversely affect our ability to begin and complete projects, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we operate in a highly competitive industry, and our current or future competitors may be able to compete more effectively than we do, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, growth rates and market share. our industry is highly competitive, with many companies of varying size and business models, many of which have their own proprietary technologies, competing for the same business as we do. many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources than us, and could focus their substantial financial resources to develop a competing business model, develop products or services that are more attractive to potential customers than what we offer or convince our potential customers that they should require financing arrangements that would be impractical for smaller companies to offer. our competitors may also offer energy solutions at prices below cost, devote significant sales forces to competing with us or attempt to recruit our key personnel by increasing compensation, any of which could improve their competitive positions. any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, cause us to lower our prices in order to 20 table of contents compete, and reduce our market share and revenue, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. we can provide no assurance that we will continue to effectively compete against our current competitors or additional companies that may enter our markets. in addition, we may also face competition based on technological developments that reduce demand for electricity, increase power supplies through existing infrastructure or that otherwise compete with our products and services. we also encounter competition in the form of potential customers electing to develop solutions or perform services internally rather than engaging an outside provider such as us. we may be unable to complete or operate our projects on a profitable basis or as we have committed to our customers. development, installation and construction of our energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, and operation of our renewable energy projects, entails many risks, including: • failure to receive critical components and equipment that meet our design specifications and can be delivered on schedule; • failure to obtain all necessary rights to land access and use; • failure to receive quality and timely performance of third-party services; • increases in the cost of labor, equipment and commodities needed to construct or operate projects; • permitting and other regulatory issues, license revocation and changes in legal requirements; • shortages of equipment or skilled labor; • unforeseen engineering problems; • failure of a customer to accept or pay for renewable energy that we supply; • weather interferences, catastrophic events including fires, explosions, earthquakes, droughts and acts of terrorism; and accidents involving personal injury or the loss of life; • labor disputes and work stoppages; • mishandling of hazardous substances and waste; and • other events outside of our control. any of these factors could give rise to construction delays and construction and other costs in excess of our expectations. this could prevent us from completing construction of our projects, cause defaults under our financing agreements or under contracts that require completion of project construction by a certain time, cause projects to be unprofitable for us, or otherwise impair our business, financial condition and operating results. our small-scale renewable energy plants may not generate expected levels of output. the small-scale renewable energy plants that we construct and own are subject to various operating risks that may cause them to generate less than expected amounts of processed lfg, electricity or thermal energy. these risks include a failure or degradation of our, our customers’ or utilities’ equipment; an inability to find suitable replacement equipment or parts; less than expected supply of the plant’s source of renewable energy, such as lfg or biomass; or a faster than expected diminishment of such supply. any extended interruption in the plant’s operation, or failure of the plant for any reason to generate the expected amount of output, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. in addition, we have in the past, and could in the future, incur material asset impairment charges if any of our renewable energy plants incurs operational issues that indicate that our expected future cash flows from the plant are less than its carrying value. any such impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our operating results in the period in which the charge is recorded. we may be unable to manage our expansion effectively. our business and operations expanded rapidly through 2011, and we anticipate that further expansion of our organization and operations will be required to achieve our expectations for long-term future growth. in order to manage our expanding operations, we will need to continue to improve our management, operational and financial controls and our reporting systems and procedures. all of these measures will require significant expenditures and will demand the attention of management. if we do not continue to enhance our management personnel and our operational and financial systems and controls in response to 21 table of contents growth in our business, we could experience operating inefficiencies that could impair our competitive position and could increase our costs more than we had planned. if we are unable to manage expansion effectively, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. we expect that some of our expansion will be accomplished through the opening of new offices and the hiring of additional personnel to staff those offices. even if an office is ultimately successful in generating additional revenue and profit for us, there is generally a lag of several years before we are able to recoup the expenses associated with opening that office. our renewable energy projects, particularly our lfg projects, depend on locating and acquiring suitable operating sites, of which there are a limited number. our biogas renewable energy projects must be sited at locations where we can secure sufficient supplies of biogas and economical connections to provide power or biofuel to customers. specifically, lfg projects must originate on or near one of the remaining approximately 500 u.s. landfills currently available and believed to be able to sustain economically viable lfg projects according to the epa’s landfill methane outreach program. sites for our renewable energy plants must be suitable for construction and efficient operation, which, among other things, requires appropriate road access. further, electric plants must be interconnected to electricity transmission or distribution networks. once we have identified a suitable project site, obtaining the requisite lfg and/or lease or other land rights (including access rights, setbacks and other easements) requires us to negotiate with landowners and local government officials. these negotiations can take place over a long time, are not always successful and sometimes require economic concessions not in our original plans. the property rights necessary to construct and interconnect our plants must also be insurable and otherwise satisfactory to our financing counterparties. in addition, our ability to obtain adequate lfg and/or property rights is subject to competition. if a competitor or other party obtains lfg and/or land rights critical to our project development efforts and we are unable to reach agreement for their use, we could incur losses as a result of development costs for sites we do not develop, which we would have to write off. if we are unable to obtain adequate lfg and/or property or other rights for a renewable energy plant, including its interconnection, that plant may be smaller in size or potentially unfeasible. failure to obtain insurable property rights for a project satisfactory to our financing sources would preclude our ability to obtain third-party financing and could prevent ongoing development and construction of that project. we plan to expand our business in part through future acquisitions, but we may not be able to identify or complete suitable acquisitions. historically, acquisitions have been a significant part of our growth strategy. we plan to continue to use acquisitions of companies or assets to expand our project skill-sets and capabilities, expand our geographic markets, add experienced management and increase our product and service offerings. however, we may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable acquisition candidates, reach agreement with acquisition targets on acceptable terms or arrange required financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms. in addition, the time and effort involved in attempting to identify acquisition candidates and consummate acquisitions may divert members of our management from the operations of our company. any future acquisitions that we may make could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our business, financial condition or operating results. if we are successful in consummating acquisitions, those acquisitions could subject us to a number of risks, including: • the purchase price we pay could significantly deplete our cash reserves or result in dilution to our existing stockholders; • we may find that the acquired company or assets do not improve our customer offerings or market position as planned; • we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; • key personnel and customers of the acquired company may terminate their relationships with the acquired company as a result of the acquisition; • we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning and financial reporting; • we may incur additional costs and expenses related to complying with additional laws, rules or regulations in new jurisdictions; 22 table of contents • we may assume or be held liable for risks and liabilities (including for environmental-related costs) as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not discover during our due diligence or adequately adjust for in our acquisition arrangements; • our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; • we may incur one-time write-offs or restructuring charges in connection with the acquisition; • we may acquire goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to amortization or impairment tests, which could result in future charges to earnings; and • we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we need governmental approvals and permits, and we typically must meet specified qualifications, in order to undertake our energy efficiency projects and construct, own and operate our small-scale renewable energy projects, and any failure to do so would harm our business. the design, construction and operation of our energy efficiency and small-scale renewable energy projects require various governmental approvals and permits, and may be subject to the imposition of related conditions that vary by jurisdiction. in some cases, these approvals and permits require periodic renewal. we cannot predict whether all permits required for a given project will be granted or whether the conditions associated with the permits will be achievable. the denial of a permit essential to a project or the imposition of impractical conditions would impair our ability to develop the project. in addition, we cannot predict whether the permits will attract significant opposition or whether the permitting process will be lengthened due to complexities and appeals. delay in the review and permitting process for a project can impair or delay our ability to develop that project or increase the cost so substantially that the project is no longer attractive to us. we have experienced delays in developing our projects due to delays in obtaining permits and may experience delays in the future. if we were to commence construction in anticipation of obtaining the final, non-appealable permits needed for that project, we would be subject to the risk of being unable to complete the project if all the permits were not obtained. if this were to occur, we would likely lose a significant portion of our investment in the project and could incur a loss as a result. further, the continued operations of our projects require continuous compliance with permit conditions. this compliance may require capital improvements or result in reduced operations. any failure to procure, maintain and comply with necessary permits would adversely affect ongoing development, construction and continuing operation of our projects. in addition, the projects we perform for governmental agencies are governed by particular qualification and contracting regimes. certain states require qualification with an appropriate state agency as a precondition to performing work or appearing as a qualified energy service provider for state, county and local agencies within the state. for example, the commonwealth of massachusetts and the states of colorado and washington pre-qualify energy service providers and provide contract documents that serve as the starting point for negotiations with potential governmental clients. most of the work that we perform for the federal government is performed under idiq agreements between a government agency and us or a subsidiary. these idiq agreements allow us to contract with the relevant agencies to implement energy projects, but no work may be performed unless we and the agency agree on a task order or delivery order governing the provision of a specific project. the government agencies enter into contracts for specific projects on a competitive basis. we and our subsidiaries and affiliates are currently party to an idiq agreement with the u.s. department of energy that expires in 2019. if we are unable to maintain or renew our idiq qualification under the u.s. department of energy program for espcs, or similar federal or state qualification regimes, our business could be materially harmed. many of our small-scale renewable energy projects are, and other future projects may be, subject to or affected by u.s. federal energy regulation or other regulations that govern the operation, ownership and sale of the facility, or the sale of electricity from the facility. puhca and the fpa regulate public utility holding companies and their subsidiaries and place constraints on the conduct of their business. the fpa regulates wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities. under purpa, all of our current small-scale renewable energy projects are small power “qualifying facilities” (facilities meeting statutory size, fuel and ownership requirements) that are exempt from regulations under puhca, most provisions of the fpa and state rate regulation. none of our renewable energy projects are currently subject to rate regulation for wholesale power sales by the federal energy regulatory commission, or ferc, under the fpa, but certain of 23 table of contents our projects that are under construction or development could become subject to such regulation in the future. also, we may acquire interests in or develop generating projects that are not qualifying facilities. non-qualifying facility projects would be fully subject to ferc corporate and rate regulation, and would be required to obtain ferc acceptance of their rate schedules for wholesale sales of energy, capacity and ancillary services, which requires substantial disclosures to and discretionary approvals from ferc. ferc may revoke or revise an entity’s authorization to make wholesale sales at negotiated, or market-based, rates if ferc determines that we can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry or engage in abusive affiliate transactions or market manipulation. in addition, many public utilities (including any non-qualifying facility generator in which we may invest) are subject to ferc reporting requirements that impose administrative burdens and that, if violated, can expose the company to civil penalties or other risks. all of our wholesale electric power sales are subject to certain market behavior rules. these rules change from time to time, by virtue of ferc rulemaking proceedings and ferc-ordered amendments to utilities’ ferc tariffs. if we are deemed to have violated these rules, we will be subject to potential disgorgement of profits associated with the violation and/or suspension or revocation of our market-based rate authority, as well as potential criminal and civil penalties. if we were to lose market-based rate authority for any non-qualifying facility project we may acquire or develop in the future, we would be required to obtain ferc’s acceptance of a cost-based rate schedule and could become subject to, among other things, the burdensome accounting, record keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on public utilities with cost-based rate schedules. this could have an adverse effect on the rates we charge for power from our projects and our cost of regulatory compliance. wholesale electric power sales are subject to increasing regulation. the terms and conditions for power sales, and the right to enter and remain in the wholesale electric sector, are subject to ferc oversight. due to major regulatory restructuring initiatives at the federal and state levels, the u.s. electric industry has undergone substantial changes over the past decade. we cannot predict the future design of wholesale power markets or the ultimate effect ongoing regulatory changes will have on our business. other proposals to further regulate the sector may be made and legislative or other attention to the electric power market restructuring process may delay or reverse the movement towards competitive markets. if we become subject to additional regulation under puhca, fpa or other regulatory frameworks, if existing regulatory requirements become more onerous, or if other material changes to the regulation of the electric power markets take place, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. compliance with environmental laws could adversely affect our operating results. costs of compliance with federal, state, provincial, local and other foreign existing and future environmental regulations could adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. we are required to comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations and to obtain numerous governmental permits in connection with energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, and we may incur significant additional costs to comply with these requirements. if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, damages and fines. existing environmental regulations could be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our projects, and future changes in environmental laws and regulations could occur. these factors may materially increase the amount we must invest to bring our projects into compliance and impose additional expense on our operations. in addition, private lawsuits or enforcement actions by federal, state, provincial and/or foreign regulatory agencies may materially increase our costs. certain environmental laws make us potentially liable on a joint and several basis for the remediation of contamination at or emanating from properties or facilities we currently or formerly owned or operated or properties to which we arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances. such liability is not limited to the cleanup of contamination we actually caused. although we seek to obtain indemnities against liabilities relating to historical contamination at the facilities we own or operate, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not incur liability relating to the remediation of contamination, including contamination we did not cause. we may not be able to obtain or maintain, from time to time, all required environmental regulatory approvals. a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or failure to obtain and comply with them could adversely affect our business and operating results. international expansion is one of our growth strategies, and international operations will expose us to additional risks that we do not face in the united states, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. we generate a significant portion of our revenue from operations in canada, and although we are engaged in overseas projects for the u.s. department of defense, we currently derive a small amount of revenue from outside of north america. 24 table of contents however, international expansion is one of our growth strategies, and we expect our revenue and operations outside of north america will expand in the future. these operations will be subject to a variety of risks that we do not face in the united states, and that we may face only to a limited degree in canada, including: • building and managing highly experienced foreign workforces and overseeing and ensuring the performance of foreign subcontractors; • increased travel, infrastructure and legal and compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • additional withholding taxes or other taxes on our foreign income, and tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or investment; • imposition of, or unexpected adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements, many of which differ from those in the united states; • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; • longer payment cycles for sales in some foreign countries and potential difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in repatriating overseas earnings; • general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate; and • political unrest, war, incidents of terrorism, or responses to such events. our overall success in international markets will depend, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. we may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies that will be effective in managing these risks in each country where we do business. our failure to manage these risks successfully could harm our international operations, reduce our international sales and increase our costs, thus adversely affecting our business, financial condition and operating results. our insurance and contractual protections may not always cover lost revenue, increased expenses or liquidated damages payments. although we maintain insurance, obtain warranties from suppliers, obligate subcontractors to meet certain performance levels and attempt, where feasible, to pass risks we cannot control to our customers, the proceeds of such insurance, warranties, performance guarantees or risk sharing arrangements may not be adequate to cover lost revenue, increased expenses or liquidated damages payments that may be required in the future. if the cost of energy generated by traditional sources does not increase, or if it decreases, demand for our services may decline. decreases in the costs associated with traditional sources of energy, such as prices for commodities like coal, oil and natural gas, may reduce demand for energy efficiency and renewable energy solutions. technological progress in traditional forms of electricity generation or the discovery of large new deposits of traditional fuels could reduce the cost of electricity generated from those sources and as a consequence reduce the demand for our solutions. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. if we fail to remediate these material weaknesses and maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ and customers’ views of us. as previously disclosed in our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2011, filed with the sec on march 15, 2012, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. in connection with our fiscal 2011 audit, we concluded that we did not have sufficient personnel in place for an adequate amount of time or effective operating internal control procedures to ensure timely and accurate reviews necessary to provide reasonable assurance that financial statements and related disclosures could be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. in connection with our fiscal 2012 audit, we concluded that we had not fully remediated the weakness previously identified and that we also had a material weakness regarding accounting for and disclosure of income taxes. 25 table of contents for a discussion of the material weakness and our remediation efforts during 2012 as well as ongoing remediation efforts, see item 9a, controls and procedures, of this annual report on form 10-k. we cannot assure you that our efforts to fully remediate these internal control weaknesses will be successful or that similar material weaknesses will not recur. if we fail to maintain our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial results timely and accurately, and we may be less likely to prevent fraud. in addition, such failure could increase our operating costs, materially impair our ability to operate our business, result in sec investigations and penalties and lead to the delisting of our common stock from the new york stock exchange, or nyse. the resulting damage to our reputation in the marketplace and our financial credibility could significantly impair our sales and marketing efforts with customers. further, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements could adversely affect the market price of our class a common stock. changes in utility regulation and tariffs could adversely affect our business. our business is affected by regulations and tariffs that govern the activities and rates of utilities. for example, utility companies are commonly allowed by regulatory authorities to charge fees to some business customers for disconnecting from the electric grid or for having the capacity to use power from the electric grid for back-up purposes. these fees could increase the cost to our customers of taking advantage of our services and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, financial condition and operating results. our current generating projects are all operated as qualifying facilities. ferc regulations under the fpa confer upon these facilities key rights to interconnection with local utilities, and can entitle qualifying facilities to enter into power purchase agreements with local utilities, from which the qualifying facilities benefit. changes to these federal laws and regulations could increase our regulatory burdens and costs, and could reduce our revenue. state regulatory agencies could award renewable energy certificates or credits that our electric generation facilities produce to our power purchasers, thereby reducing the power sales revenues we otherwise would earn. in addition, modifications to the pricing policies of utilities could require renewable energy systems to charge lower prices in order to compete with the price of electricity from the electric grid and may reduce the economic attractiveness of certain energy efficiency measures. some of the demand-reduction services we provide for utilities and institutional clients are subject to regulatory tariffs imposed under federal and state utility laws. in addition, the operation of, and electrical interconnection for, our renewable energy projects are subject to federal, state or provincial interconnection and federal reliability standards that are also set forth in utility tariffs. these tariffs specify rules, business practices and economic terms to which we are subject. the tariffs are drafted by the utilities and approved by the utilities’ state and federal regulatory commissions. these tariffs change frequently and it is possible that future changes will increase our administrative burden or adversely affect the terms and conditions under which we render service to our customers. our activities and operations are subject to numerous health and safety laws and regulations, and if we violate such regulations, we could face penalties and fines. we are subject to numerous health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. these laws and regulations require us to obtain and maintain permits and approvals and implement health and safety programs and procedures to control risks associated with our projects. compliance with those laws and regulations can require us to incur substantial costs. moreover, if our compliance programs are not successful, we could be subject to penalties or to revocation of our permits, which may require us to curtail or cease operations of the affected projects. violations of laws, regulations and permit requirements may also result in criminal sanctions or injunctions. health and safety laws, regulations and permit requirements may change or become more stringent. any such changes could require us to incur materially higher costs than we currently have. our costs of complying with current and future health and safety laws, regulations and permit requirements, and any liabilities, fines or other sanctions resulting from violations of them, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. if our subsidiaries default on their obligations under their debt instruments, we may need to make payments to lenders to prevent foreclosure on the collateral securing the debt. we typically set up subsidiaries to own and finance our renewable energy projects. these subsidiaries incur various types of debt which can be used to finance one or more projects. this debt is typically structured as non-recourse debt, which means it is repayable solely from the revenue from the projects financed by the debt and is secured by such projects’ physical assets, major contracts and cash accounts and a pledge of our equity interests in the subsidiaries involved in the projects. although our 26 table of contents subsidiary debt is typically non-recourse to ameresco, if a subsidiary of ours defaults on such obligations, or if one project out of several financed by a particular subsidiary’s indebtedness encounters difficulties or is terminated, then we may from time to time determine to provide financial support to the subsidiary in order to maintain rights to the project or otherwise avoid the adverse consequences of a default. in the event a subsidiary defaults on its indebtedness, its creditors may foreclose on the collateral securing the indebtedness, which may result in our losing our ownership interest in some or all of the subsidiary’s assets. the loss of our ownership interest in a subsidiary or some or all of a subsidiary’s assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers. most of our revenue is derived under multi-year or long-term contracts with our customers, and our revenue is therefore dependent to a large extent on the creditworthiness of our customers. during periods of economic downturn, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases, and our efforts to monitor and mitigate the associated risks may not be effective in reducing our credit risks. in the event of non-payment by one or more of our customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. the use and enjoyment of real property rights for our small-scale renewable energy projects may be adversely affected by the rights of lienholders and leaseholders that are superior to those of the grantors of those real property rights to us. our small-scale renewable energy projects generally are, and are likely to continue to be, located on land we or our customers occupy pursuant to long-term easements and leases. the ownership interests in the land subject to these easements and leases may be subject to mortgages securing loans or other liens (such as tax liens) and other easement and lease rights of third parties (such as leases of oil or mineral rights) that were created prior to our or our customers’ easements and leases. as a result, the rights under these easements or leases may be subject, and subordinate, to the rights of those third parties. we typically perform title searches and obtain title insurance to protect ourselves or our customers against these risks. such measures may, however, be inadequate to protect against all risk of loss of rights to use the land on which these projects are located, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results. a significant portion of our total revenue is generated by our canadian subsidiary, ameresco canada. changes in exchange rates between the canadian dollar and the u.s. dollar may adversely affect our operating results. we may be liable for duties on certain solar products imported from the people’s republic of china, or prc. on october 10, 2012, the u.s. department of commerce, or commerce, announced its final determination to impose anti-dumping and countervailing duties of 249.96%, as applied to us, and 15.24%, respectively, on the value of imports of solar cells manufactured in the prc, including solar modules containing such cells. under commerce’s determination, the anti-dumping and countervailing duties both were to apply retroactively 90 days from the respective date each first was published to february 25, 2012 and december 21, 2011, respectively. we estimate that we have received shipments of solar modules subject to these duties with an aggregate value of approximately $3.4 million, comprising approximately $2.2 million relating to shipments received during the 90-day anti-dumping retroactive period and $1.2 million relating to shipments received since may 25, 2012. on november 7, 2012, the international trade commission announced its final determination upholding the duties, but eliminating the retroactive periods. there remain procedural avenues for seeking a separate and reduced anti-dumping duty rate, several of which have been granted at a rate of approximately 26%. as of july 2012, we have ceased imports of solar modules containing prc solar cells, and have arranged for production of modules utilizing non-prc cells, thus eliminating the imposition of these duties on further shipments. in addition, we are monitoring and evaluating our alternatives for obtaining a separate and reduced anti-dumping duty rate for solar modules previously imported, though we can provide no assurance that we will obtain such a reduced rate. depending on whether the maximum anti-dumping duty rate of 249.96% or some lower rate applies, we may be liable for combined duties of up to approximately $3.3 million. risks related to ownership of our class a common stock the trading price of our class a common stock is volatile. we sold shares of our class a common stock in our initial public offering in july 2010 at a price of $10.00 per share, and our class a common stock has subsequently traded at a price per share as high as above $17.00 and as low as below $8.00. the trading price of our class a common stock is likely to continue to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in 27 table of contents response to various factors. in addition to the risks described in this section, factors that may cause the market price of our class a common stock to fluctuate include: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • changes in estimates of our future financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • investors’ general perception of us; and • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. in addition, if the stock market in general experiences a significant decline, the trading price of our class a common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or operating results. some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class actions filed against them. if a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it would likely result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. holders of our class a common stock are entitled to one vote per share, and holders of our class b common stock are entitled to five votes per share. the lower voting power of our class a common stock may negatively affect the attractiveness of our class a common stock to investors and, as a result, its market value. we have two classes of common stock: class a common stock, which is listed on the nyse and which is entitled to one vote per share, and class b common stock, which is not listed on the any security exchange and is entitled to five votes per share. the difference in the voting power of our class a and class b common stock could diminish the market value of our class a common stock because of the superior voting rights of our class b common stock and the power those rights confer. for the foreseeable future, mr. sakellaris or his affiliates will be able to control the selection of all members of our board of directors, as well as virtually every other matter that requires stockholder approval, which will severely limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters. except in certain limited circumstances required by applicable law, holders of class a and class b common stock vote together as a single class on all matters to be voted on by our stockholders. mr. sakellaris, our founder, principal stockholder, president and chief executive officer, owns all of our class b common stock, which, together with his class a common stock, represents approximately 79% of the combined voting power of our outstanding class a and class b common stock. under our restated certificate of incorporation, holders of shares of class b common stock may generally transfer those shares to family members, including spouses and descendants or the spouses of such descendants, as well as to affiliated entities, without having the shares automatically convert into shares of class a common stock. therefore, mr. sakellaris, his affiliates, and his family members and descendants will, for the foreseeable future, be able to control the outcome of the voting on virtually all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions such as an acquisition of our company, even if they come to own, in the aggregate, as little as 20% of the economic interest of the outstanding shares of our class a and class b common stock. moreover, these persons may take actions in their own interests that you or our other stockholders do not view as beneficial. future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. sales by our existing stockholders of a substantial number of shares in the public market, or the threat that substantial sales might occur, could cause the market price of the class a common stock to decrease significantly. these factors could also make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling our class a common stock. if securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our class a common stock depends in part on any research reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. in the event one or more securities or industry analysts downgrade our stock or publish unfavorable reports about our business, our stock price would likely decline. in addition, if any securities or industry analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our class a common stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. 28 table of contents we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock and do not currently expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. our senior secured credit facility limits our ability to declare and pay cash dividends during the term of that agreement. we intend to use our future earnings, if any, in the operation and expansion of our business. accordingly, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your class a common stock for the foreseeable future, and your ability to achieve a return on your investment will therefore depend on appreciation in the market price of our class a common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our class a common stock. we are a delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the delaware general corporation law may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be supported by our existing stockholders. in addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition or a change in our management that stockholders may consider favorable. our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws: • provide for a dual class capital structure that allows our founder, principal stockholder, president and chief executive officer, mr. sakellaris, to control the outcome of the voting on virtually all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions such as an acquisition of our company; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which only approximately one-third of our directors are presented to a stockholder vote for re-election at any annual meeting of stockholders; • provide that directors may be removed from office only for cause and only upon a supermajority stockholder vote; • provide that vacancies on our board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • do not permit stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • require a supermajority stockholder vote to effect certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws. 29 table of contents item 1b. unresolved