item 1a. risk factors.   there are risks associated with an investment in our securities. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our results of operations, our financial condition, our liquidity, the trading prices of our securities, and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   our business is dependent upon our ability to accurately predict fashion trends, customer preferences and other fashion-related factors.   customer tastes and fashion trends are volatile and tend to change rapidly, particularly for women and tween girls apparel. our success depends in part upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. accordingly, any failure by us to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends could adversely affect consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores, which in turn could adversely affect our business and our image with our customers. because we enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer preferences and demand, price shifting, and the optimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. if we miscalculate either the demand for our merchandise or our customers’ tastes or purchasing habits, we may be required to sell a significant amount of unsold inventory at below average markups over cost, or below cost, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   general economic conditions may adversely affect our business.   our performance is subject to macroeconomic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. some of the factors negatively impacting discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, wages and high unemployment, increased taxation, high consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on severe market declines (such as in residential real estate markets), higher fuel, energy and other prices, increasing interest rates, severe weather conditions and low consumer confidence. in addition, any significant volatility in our financial markets, as has been experienced in the past, could also negatively impact the levels of future discretionary consumer spending.   such macroeconomic and other factors could continue to have a negative effect on the lower level of consumer spending in the u.s., which in turn, could have a material effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.   in addition, as a result of occasional instability in the global financial markets, there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected or that our capital resources will at all times be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs. although we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash provided by operations and available borrowings under our $500 million amended and restated credit agreement (the “revolving credit agreement”) will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future, any renewed tightening of the credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, enter into an agreement for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. our revolving credit agreement also has financial covenants which, if not met, may further impede our ability to access funds under the revolving credit agreement.   we also have significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents on deposit at fdic-insured financial institutions that are currently in excess of federally-insured limits. since the deposit insurance provision of the dodd-frank wall street reform act expired on december 31, 2012, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses with respect to cash on deposit in excess of federally- insured limits.   10     as described in note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein, we have significant goodwill and other intangible assets related to our acquisition of maurices in january 2005, the merger with tween brands consummated in november 2009 and the charming shoppes acquisition consummated in june 2012. current and future economic conditions may adversely impact justice’s, lane bryant’s, maurices’s, dressbarn’s or catherines’s ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers, maintain sales volumes and maintain margins. these events could materially reduce justice’s, lane bryant’s, maurices’s, dressbarn’s or catherines’s profitability and cash flow which could, in turn, lead to an impairment of justice’s, lane bryant’s, maurices’s or catherines’s goodwill and intangible assets. furthermore, if customer attrition were to accelerate significantly, the value of justice’s, lane bryant’s, maurices’s or catherines’s intangible assets could be impaired or subject to accelerated amortization.   risks associated with the charming shoppes acquisition.   the success of the charming shoppes acquisition continues to depend on our ability to integrate and manage both our and charming shoppes’s operations, to realize opportunities for revenue growth and, to some degree, to eliminate redundant and excess costs. achieving the anticipated benefits of the charming shoppes acquisition may present a number of significant risks and considerations, including, but not limited to:   · demands on management related to the increase in our size; · the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; · expected cost savings not being achieved in full, or taking longer or requiring greater investment to achieve; and · achieving transition and new store growth potential.   we depend on strip shopping center and mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations.   many of our stores are located in strip shopping centers, shopping malls and other retail centers that benefit from the ability of “anchor” retail tenants, generally large department stores, and other attractions, to generate sufficient levels of consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. strip shopping center and mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor stores or changes in customer shopping preferences. a decline in the popularity of strip shopping center or mall shopping among our target customers could have a material adverse effect on customer traffic and our results of operations.   to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations where competition for suitable store locations is intense.   our ability to successfully adapt to ongoing organizational change could impact our business results.   we have executed a number of significant business and organizational changes including acquisitions, workforce and technology optimization projects and distribution center consolidation projects to support our growth strategies. we expect these types of changes to continue for the foreseeable future. successfully managing these changes, including retention of key employees, is critical to our business success. in addition, our success is dependent on identifying, developing and retaining key employees to provide uninterrupted leadership and direction for our business. this includes developing organizational capabilities in key growth markets where the depth of skilled employees is limited and competition for these resources is intense. further, business and organizational changes may result in more reliance on third parties for various services, and that reliance may increase compliance risks, including anti-corruption. finally, our financial targets assume a consistent level of productivity improvement. if we are unable to deliver expected productivity improvements while continuing to invest in business growth, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be adversely impacted.   our business could suffer if our information technology systems fail to operate effectively, are disrupted or compromised.   we rely on our existing information technology systems in operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including sales, warehousing, distribution, purchasing, inventory control, merchandise planning and replenishment, as well as various financial systems. the reliability and capacity of our information technology systems are critical. despite our precautionary efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, natural disasters, technical malfunctions, inadequate systems capacity, power outages, computer viruses, and security breaches. any disruption in the operation of our information technology systems, or our failure to continue to upgrade or transition to new systems, integrate or expend capital on such systems as our business expands, could have a material adverse effect on our business. any failure to maintain adequate system security controls to protect our information technology systems and sensitive data, including customer data, from unauthorized access, disclosure or use could also damage the company's reputation with our customers.   11     we rely on foreign sources of production.   we purchase a significant portion of our apparel directly in foreign markets, including asia, the middle east and africa, and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. we face a variety of risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, including but not limited to:   · financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured or the channels through which it passes; · fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies; · increased security and regulatory requirements applicable to imported goods; · imposition or increases of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; · imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas or other restrictions that may limit the quantity of our merchandise that may be imported into the united states from countries in regions where we do business; · currency and exchange risks; · impact of natural disasters and public health concerns on our foreign sourcing offices and vendor manufacturing operations; · delays in shipping due to port security considerations or labor disputes; and · increased costs of transportation.   new initiatives may be proposed that may have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, could increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries or restrict the importation of products from such countries. the future performance of our business depends on foreign suppliers and may be adversely affected by the factors listed above, all of which are beyond our control. this may result in our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise or increase our costs, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations.   we may suffer negative publicity and our business may be harmed if we need to recall any products we sell.   justice has in the past and may in the future need to recall products that we determine may present safety issues. if products we sell have safety problems of which we are not aware, or if we or the consumer product safety commission recall a product sold in our stores, we may suffer negative publicity and product liability lawsuits, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   our expansion into new services and technologies subjects us to additional business, legal, financial and competitive risks.   we may have limited experience in our newer market segments and our customers may not adopt our new service offerings, which include our e-commerce services. this new offering may present new and difficult technology challenges, and we may be subject to claims if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other quality issues. in addition, our gross profits in our newer activities may be lower than in our older activities and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them. if any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation, limit our growth and negatively affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   risks associated with e-commerce sales.   we sell merchandise via the internet through our e-commerce services offered by our various brands. our e-commerce services are subject to numerous risks, including:   · the failures of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, including but not limited to, inadequate system capacity, computer viruses, human error, change in programming, security breaches, system upgrades or migrations, causing, among other things, website downtimes and other technical/functional failures; · reliance on third-party computer hardware/software and fulfillment providers; · unfavorable federal or state regulations and laws; · violations of federal, state or other applicable laws, including those related to online privacy; · disruptions in telephone service or power outages; · credit card fraud; · evolving changes in technology; · liability for online content; · diversion of sales from our stores; and · natural disasters or adverse weather conditions.   12     the company's failure to successfully address and respond to any one or more of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and damage the reputation of our brands.   we face challenges to grow our business and to manage our growth.   our growth is dependent, in large part, upon our ability to successfully add new stores. in addition, on a routine basis, we close underperforming stores, which may result in write-offs. the success of our growth strategy depends upon a number of factors, including, among others, the identification of suitable markets and sites for new stores, negotiation of leases on acceptable terms, construction or renovation of sites in a timely manner at acceptable costs and maintenance of the productivity of our existing store base. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. we must be able to hire, train and retain competent managers and personnel and manage the systems and operational components of our growth. our failure to open new stores on a timely basis, obtain acceptance in markets in which we currently have limited or no presence, attract qualified management and personnel or appropriately adjust operational systems and procedures could have an adverse effect on our growth prospects.   our business would suffer a material adverse effect if our distribution centers were shut down or disrupted.   most of the merchandise we purchase is shipped directly to our distribution centers, where it is prepared for shipment to the appropriate stores. if our distribution centers were to have an unplanned shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, our operations would likely be seriously disrupted. as a result, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace any distribution center.   additionally, freight costs are impacted by changes in fuel prices. fuel prices affect freight costs both on inbound freight from vendors to the distribution centers and outbound freight from the distribution centers to our stores.   although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, management cannot be assured that our insurance coverage will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, if any of the distribution centers are shut down for any unplanned reason.   our business could suffer a material adverse effect from extreme or unseasonable weather conditions.   extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the company's stores are located could negatively affect the company's business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over an extended period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores, which could negatively impact the company's results of operations. the company's business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool temperatures during the summer season could reduce demand and thereby have an adverse effect on the company's results of operations.   our business could suffer as a result of a third-party manufacturer’s inability to produce goods for us on time and to our specifications.   we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all of the goods that we sell. both domestic and international manufacturers produce these goods. the company is at risk for increases in manufacturing costs and we cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with these third-party manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control and failure to meet production deadlines. the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders in a timely manner or to meet our safety, quality and social compliance standards could have a material adverse impact on our business.   our business could suffer if parties with whom the company does business are subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations to the company.   the company is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including vendors, suppliers, service providers and lenders, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to the company. in some cases, the company depends upon such third parties to provide essential products, services or other benefits, including with respect to merchandise fulfillment, advertising, software development and support, logistics, and other agreements for goods and services in order to operate the company’s business in its ordinary course. current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risk to the company associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. if any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits of the company in relation to its contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to the company, or otherwise impaired. the company cannot make any assurance that it would be able to arrange alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as the company’s existing contracts, transactions or business relationships, if at all. any inability on the part of the company to do so could negatively affect the company’s business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   13     our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers.   we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers and import quota capacity. many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have and thus may have an advantage in the competition for production capacity. if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of the goods that we sell must be replaced, we may have to increase purchases from our other third-party manufacturers and we cannot guarantee we will be able to do so at all or on terms that are acceptable to us. this may negatively affect our results of operations. we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, but we do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. none of the manufacturers we use produces products for us exclusively.   our business could suffer if one of the manufacturers of the goods that we sell fails to use acceptable labor practices.   we require manufacturers of the goods that we sell to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff and our agents periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. the violation of local labor, employment or other laws by an independent third-party manufacturer used by us, or the divergence of an independent third-party manufacturer’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the united states, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of products to us or damage our reputation, which may result in a decrease in customer traffic to our stores and adversely affect our results of operations. publicity regarding violation of the foregoing guidelines or practices or other social/compliance standards by any of our third-party manufacturers could adversely affect our results of operations.   acts of terrorism, effects of war, public health, natural disasters, other catastrophes or political unrest could have a material adverse effect on our business.   the threat or actual acts of terrorism continue to be a risk to the global economy. terrorism and potential military responses, political unrest, natural disasters (such as hurricane sandy in 2012), pandemics or other health issues have disrupted or could disrupt commerce, impact our ability to operate our stores or offices in the affected areas or impact our ability to provide critical functions or services necessary to the operation of our business. a disruption of commerce, or an inability to recover critical functions or services from such a disruption, could interfere with the production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise in a timely manner or increase our costs to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, any of the above disruptions could undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact consumer spending or customer traffic, and thus have an adverse effect on our results of operations.   existing and increased competition in the women’s and girls’ retail apparel industry may reduce our net revenues, profits and market share.   the women’s and girls’ retail apparel industry is highly competitive. although the company is one of the nation’s largest specialty retailers, we have numerous and varied competitors at the national and local level, primarily consisting of department stores, off-price retailers, other specialty stores, discount stores, mass merchandisers, and internet and mail-order retailers, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, promotional and other resources than we have. many department stores offer a broader selection of merchandise than we offer. in addition, many department stores continue to be promotional and reduce their selling prices, and in some cases are expanding into markets in which we have a significant presence. as a result of this competition, we may experience pricing pressures, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   we could suffer a decline in our profitability as a result of increasing pressure on margins.   the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer spending patterns. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs. if our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   14     our business could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, labor, energy and freight.   increases in the price of cotton, wool and other raw materials used in the production of fabric and accessories, as well as increases in labor and energy costs, could result in increases for the costs of our products as well as their distribution to our distribution centers, retail locations and to our customers. in response to these price increases, we have moderately increased merchandise prices on certain items in each of our brands and may, in the future, need to further increase merchandise prices in order to maintain our merchandise margins. consequently, higher product costs could have a negative effect on our gross profit margin and increased selling prices could have a negative effect on our sales volume.   we depend on key personnel in order to support our existing business and future expansion and may not be able to retain or replace these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel.   our success and our ability to execute our business strategy depend largely on the efforts of our current management teams at the company and the respective brands. executives at the company and the brands have substantial experience in the retail business and have made significant contributions to the growth and success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. competition for key personnel in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we fail to attract, hire, motivate and retain qualified personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified individuals.   our performance also depends in large part on the talents and contributions of engaged and skilled associates in all areas of the company. if we are unable to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain talented individuals, we may be unable to compete effectively and could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   covenants in our revolving credit agreement may impose operating restrictions.   our revolving credit agreement has financial covenants with respect to a fixed charge coverage ratio, as well as other covenants. if we fail to meet these covenants or obtain appropriate waivers, our lenders may terminate the revolving credit agreement. such termination could negatively impact our liquidity, which could have a negative impact on the flow of goods and services, adversely impacting our operations.   our business may be affected by regulatory, administrative and litigation developments.   laws and regulations at the local, state, federal, and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from regulatory or administrative changes. changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, healthcare, tax, accounting, privacy, operations, or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   additionally, from time-to-time, we are involved in litigation incidental to our business, including litigation regarding overtime compensation and other employment or wage and hour related matters. our current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of damaging facts with respect to legal matters pending against us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of facts that are not in accordance with management's evaluation of the claims. should management's evaluation prove incorrect, our exposure could greatly exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   increases in the cost of employee health benefits could impact the company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   the company's expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could negatively affect the company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform could result in significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system. due to the breadth and complexity of the healthcare reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance and the phased-in nature of the implementation of the legislation, the company is not able at this time to fully determine the impact that healthcare reform will have on the company-sponsored medical plans.   15     we are pursuing a strategy of international expansion.   we currently intend to expand our operations into other countries in the future. currently, our justice brand has licensed stores in certain middle eastern countries, australia, southeast asia, central and south america and russia. during fiscal 2013, both our justice and maurices brands continued their expansion into canada. as we expand internationally, we may incur significant costs associated with the start-up and maintenance of foreign operations. costs may include, but are not limited to, obtaining locations for stores, setting up foreign offices, hiring experienced management and maintaining good relations with associates. we may be unable to open and operate new stores successfully, or we may face operational issues that delay our intended pace of international store growth. in any such case, our expansion may be limited, unless we can:   · identify suitable markets and sites for store locations; · address the different operational characteristics present in each country to which we expand, including employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate, lease provisions and local reporting or legal requirements; · negotiate acceptable lease terms, in some cases in locations in which the relative rights and obligations of landlords and tenants differ significantly from the customs and practices in the u.s.; · hire, train and retain competent store personnel; · gain and retain acceptance from foreign customers; · manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; · expand infrastructure to accommodate growth; · manage foreign government regulations; · manage foreign currency exchange risk effectively; and · achieve acceptable operating margins from new stores.   failure to implement our international expansion plan consistent with our internal expectations, whether as a result of one or more of the factors listed above or other factors, could adversely affect our ability to achieve the objectives that we have established.   we utilize ports to import our products from asia and other regions.   we currently ship the vast majority of our products by ocean. if a disruption occurs in the operation of ports through which our products are imported, we and our vendors may have to ship some or all of our products from asia by air freight or to alternative shipping destinations in the united states. shipping by air is significantly more expensive than shipping by ocean and our profitability could be reduced. similarly, shipping to alternative destinations in the united states could lead to increased lead times and costs on our products. a disruption at ports (domestic or abroad) through which our products are imported could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   we may experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate.   we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous international jurisdictions. we record tax expense based on our estimates of future tax payments, which include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of international and domestic tax audits, including uncertain tax positions. at any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. the results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. as a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and reserves are re-evaluated. further, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by taxing jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations.   our stock price may be volatile.   our common stock is quoted on the nasdaq global select market. our stock price may fluctuate substantially as a result of quarter to quarter variations in our actual or anticipated financial results, the results of other companies in the retail industry, or the markets we serve. in addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other stocks and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies.   16     changes to accounting rules and regulations may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   changes to existing accounting rules or regulations may impact our future results of operations or cause the perception that we are more highly leveraged. other new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules and regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. for instance, accounting regulatory authorities have indicated that they may begin to require lessees to capitalize operating leases in their financial statements in the next few years. if adopted, such a change would require us to record a significant amount of lease related assets and liabilities on our balance sheet and make other changes to the recording and classification of lease related expenses on the consolidated statements of operations and cash flows. this and other future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   failure to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively impact our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information.   we must continue to document, test, monitor and enhance our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting required under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act will prove to be adequate in the future. any failure to maintain the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or to comply with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and the price of our common stock.   we are subject to cybersecurity risks and may incur increased expenses to mitigate our exposure.   our business, and that of our third-party service providers, employs systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding our customers, employees, job applicants, and others, including credit card information and personal identification information. security and/or privacy breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. we may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly-evolving types of cyber-attacks or intrusions. attacks may be targeted at us, our customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. in addition, data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including breach by us or by our third-party service providers that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information.   the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. in addition, customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. any breach involving this data could cause harm to our reputation or result in liability, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights.   we believe that our trademarks and service marks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and service marks on a worldwide basis, including in the countries in which we have business operations or plan to have business operations. we are not aware of any material claims of infringement or material challenges to our right to use any of our trademarks in the united states or canada. nevertheless, the actions we have taken, including to establish and protect our trademarks and service marks, may not be adequate to prevent others from imitating our products or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products. also, others may assert proprietary rights in our intellectual property and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states.   item 1b. unresolved