item 1a. risk factors.   there are risks associated with an investment in our securities. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our results of operations, our financial condition, our liquidity, the trading prices of our securities, and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our business operations.   our business is dependent upon our ability to predict accurately fashion trends, customer preferences and other fashion-related factors.   customer tastes and fashion trends are volatile and tend to change rapidly, particularly for women and tween girls’ apparel. our success depends in part upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. accordingly, any failure by us to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends could adversely affect consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores, which in turn could adversely affect our business and our image with our customers. if we miscalculate either the market for our merchandise or our customers’ tastes or purchasing habits, we may be required to sell a significant amount of unsold inventory at below average markups over cost, or below cost, which would have an adverse effect on our margins and results of operations.   recent and future economic uncertainty, including a further tightening of credit markets, may adversely affect our business.   recent economic conditions may adversely affect our business, including the potential impact on the apparel industry, our customers and our ability to finance our business. in addition, conditions may remain depressed in the future or may be subject to further deterioration. recent or future developments in the u.s. and global economies may lead to further reduction in consumer spending overall, which could have an adverse impact on sales of our products.   further tightening of the credit markets could also make it more difficult for us to enter into agreements for new indebtedness or to obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. worsening economic conditions could also result in difficulties for financial institutions (including bank failures) and other parties that we may do business with, which could potentially impair our ability to access financing under existing arrangements or to otherwise recover amounts as they become due under our other contractual arrangements.   as described in note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein, we have significant goodwill and other intangible assets related to our acquisition of maurices in january 2005, the tween brands merger consummated in november 2009 and the charming acquisition consummated in june 2012. current and future economic conditions may adversely impact justice’s, lane bryant’s, maurices’, dressbarn’s or catherines’ ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers, maintain sales volumes and maintain margins. these events could materially reduce justice’s, lane bryant’s, maurices’, dressbarn’s or catherines’ profitability and cash flow which could, in turn, lead to an impairment of justice’s, lane bryant’s, maurices’ or catherines’ goodwill and intangible assets. furthermore, if customer attrition were to accelerate significantly, the value of justice’s, lane bryant’s, maurices’ or catherines’ intangible assets could be impaired or subject to accelerated amortization.   a further slowdown in the united states economy, an uncertain economic outlook and escalating commodity costs may continue to affect consumer demand for our apparel and accessories.   our performance is subject to macroeconomic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. some of the factors negatively impacting discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, wages and high unemployment, high consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on severe market declines (such as in residential real estate markets), increased taxation, higher fuel, energy and other prices and low consumer confidence. while the u.s. and certain other international economies have improved since the global financial crisis experienced in fall 2008, a prolonged economic downturn and slow recovery, including high rates of unemployment, rising commodity prices and declining real estate market values, could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   10     risks associated with the charming shoppes acquisition.   the success of the charming shoppes acquisition will depend on our ability to manage both our operations and charming shoppes’s operations, to realize opportunities for revenue growth and, to some degree, to eliminate redundant and excess costs. achieving the anticipated benefits of the charming shoppes acquisition may present a number of significant risks and considerations, including, but not limited to:   · demands on management related to the increase in our size; · the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; · expected cost savings not being achieved in full, or taking longer or requiring greater investment to achieve; and · achieving transition and new store growth potential.   we depend on strip shopping center and mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations.   our sales are dependent in part on a high volume of strip shopping center and mall traffic. strip shopping center and mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor stores or changes in customer shopping preferences. a decline in the popularity of strip shopping center or mall shopping among our target customers could have a material adverse effect on customer traffic and reduce our sales and net income.   to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations where competition for suitable store locations is intense.   our ability to successfully adapt to ongoing organizational change could impact our business results.   we have executed a number of significant business and organizational changes including acquisitions and workforce optimization projects to support our growth strategies. we expect these types of changes to continue for the foreseeable future. successfully managing these changes, including retention of key employees, is critical to our business success. in addition, our success is dependent on identifying, developing and retaining key employees to provide uninterrupted leadership and direction for our business. this includes developing organizational capabilities in key growth markets where the depth of skilled employees is limited and competition for these resources is intense. further, business and organizational changes may result in more reliance on third parties for various services, and that reliance may increase compliance risks, including anti-corruption. finally, our financial targets assume a consistent level of productivity improvement. if we are unable to deliver expected productivity improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, our financial results could be adversely impacted.   our management information systems may fail and cause disruptions in our business.   we rely on our existing management information systems in operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including sales, warehousing, distribution, purchasing, inventory control, merchandise planning and replenishment, as well as various financial systems. any disruption in the operation of our management information systems, or our failure to continue to upgrade, integrate or expend capital on such systems as our business expands, could have a material adverse effect on our business.   we utilize the oracle retail merchandising system for our dressbarn segment and our maurices segment. our justice, lane bryant and catherines segments utilize internally developed merchandising systems. the purpose of our merchandising systems is to expand our capability to identify and analyze sales trends and consumer data and achieve planning and inventory management improvements.   we rely on foreign sources of production.   we purchase a significant portion of our apparel directly in foreign markets, including asia, the middle east and africa, and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. we face a variety of risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, including but not limited to:   · political instability; · increased security and regulatory requirements applicable to imported goods; · imposition or increases of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; · imposition of quotas on imported merchandise; · currency and exchange risks; · delays in shipping; and   11     · increased costs of transportation.   new initiatives may be proposed that may have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, could increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries or restrict the importation of products from such countries. the future performance of our business depends on foreign suppliers and may be adversely affected by the factors listed above, all of which are beyond our control. this may result in our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise or increase our costs, thereby negatively impacting sales, gross profit and net income.   we may suffer negative publicity and our business may be harmed if we need to recall any products we sell.   justice has in the past and may in the future need to recall products that we determine may present safety issues. if products we sell have safety problems of which we are not aware, or if we or the consumer product safety commission recall a product sold in our stores, we may suffer negative publicity and product liability lawsuits, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows.   our expansion into new services and technologies subjects us to additional business, legal, financial and competitive risks.   we may have limited experience in our newer market segments and our customers may not adopt our new service offerings, which include our new e-commerce service. this new offering may present new and difficult technology challenges, and we may be subject to claims if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other quality issues. in addition, our gross profits in our newer activities may be lower than in our older activities and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them. if any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation, limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results.   government regulation of the internet and e-commerce is evolving and unfavorable changes could harm our business.   we are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the internet and e-commerce. existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of our internet or online services. these regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, unencumbered internet access to our services, the design and operation of websites and the characteristics and quality of products and services. it is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, libel and personal privacy apply to the internet and e-commerce. jurisdictions may regulate consumer-to-consumer online businesses, including certain aspects of our programs. unfavorable regulations and laws could diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business.   we face challenges to grow our business and to manage our growth.   our growth is dependent, in large part, upon our ability to successfully add new stores. in addition, on a routine basis, we close underperforming stores, which may result in write-offs. the success of our growth strategy depends upon a number of factors, including, among others, the identification of suitable markets and sites for new stores, negotiation of leases on acceptable terms, construction or renovation of sites in a timely manner at acceptable costs and maintenance of the productivity of our existing store base. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. we must be able to hire, train and retain competent managers and personnel and manage the systems and operational components of our growth. our failure to open new stores on a timely basis, obtain acceptance in markets in which we currently have limited or no presence, attract qualified management and personnel or appropriately adjust operational systems and procedures could have an adverse effect on our growth prospects.   our business would suffer a material adverse effect if our distribution centers were to shut down or be disrupted.   most of the merchandise we purchase is shipped directly to our distribution centers, where it is prepared for shipment to the appropriate stores. if our distribution centers were to have an unplanned shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, our operations would likely be seriously disrupted. as a result, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace any distribution center.   additionally, freight cost is impacted by changes in fuel prices. fuel prices affect freight cost both on inbound freight from vendors to the distribution centers and outbound freight from the distribution centers to our stores.   although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, management cannot be assured that our insurance coverage will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, if any of the distribution centers are shut down for any unplanned reason.   12     our business could suffer a material adverse effect from inclement or unseasonable weather conditions.   weather conditions can affect our net sales because inclement weather may discourage travel or require temporary store closures, thereby reducing customer traffic. unseasonably warmer weather during typically colder months or unseasonably colder weather during typically warmer months can also affect the seasonal composition and demand for our merchandise.   our business could suffer as a result of a manufacturer’s inability to produce goods for us on time and to our specifications.   we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all of the goods that we sell. both domestic and international manufacturers produce these goods. the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders in a timely manner or to meet our standards could have a material adverse impact on our business.   our business could suffer if parties with whom the company does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations to the company.   the company is party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including vendors, suppliers, service providers and lenders, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to the company. in some cases, the company depends upon such third parties to provide essential products, services or other benefits, including with respect to merchandise, fulfillment, advertising, software development and support, logistics, and other agreements for goods and services in order to operate the company’s business in the ordinary course. current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risk to the company associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. if any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits of the company in relation to its contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to the company, or otherwise impaired. the company cannot make any assurance that it would be able to arrange alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as the company’s existing contracts, transactions or business relationships, if at all. any inability on the part of the company to do so could negatively affect the company’s cash flows, financial condition and business.   our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers.   we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers and import quota capacity. many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have and thus may have an advantage in the competition for production capacity. if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of the goods that we sell must be replaced, we may have to increase purchases from our third-party manufacturers and we cannot guarantee we will be able to do so at all or on terms that are acceptable to us. this may negatively affect our sales and net income. we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, but we do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. none of the manufacturers we use produces products for us exclusively.   our business could suffer if one of the manufacturers of the goods that we sell fails to use acceptable labor practices.   we require manufacturers of the goods that we sell to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff and our agents periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. the violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the united states, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of products to us or damage our reputation, which may result in a decrease in customer traffic to our stores and adversely affect our sales and net income.   a regional or global health pandemic could severely affect the company’s business.   a health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity, the company’s business could be severely affected. customers might avoid public places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. a regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact the company’s business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in its stores.   13     existing and increased competition in the women’s and girls’ retail apparel industry may reduce our net revenues, profits and market share.   the women’s and girls’ retail apparel industry is highly competitive. although the company is one of the nation’s largest specialty retailers, we have numerous and varied competitors at the national and local level, primarily department stores, off-price retailers, other specialty stores, discount stores, mass merchandisers, and internet and mail-order retailers, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. many department stores offer a broader selection of merchandise than we offer. in addition, many department stores continue to be promotional and reduce their selling prices, and in some cases are expanding into markets in which we have a significant market presence. as a result of this competition, including close-out sales and going-out-of-business sales by other women’s apparel retailers, we may experience pricing pressures, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   we could suffer a decline in our profitability as a result of increasing pressure on margins.   the apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer spending patterns. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs. if our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.   our business could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials and freight.   the raw materials used to manufacture our products, in particular cotton, and our transportation and contract manufacturing labor costs, are subject to availability constraints and price volatility. we have recently seen an increase in such costs. in response to these price increases, we have moderately increased merchandise prices on certain items in each of our brands and may, in the future, need to further increase merchandise prices in order to maintain our merchandise margins. consequently, higher product costs could have a negative effect on our gross profit margin and increased selling prices could have a negative effect on our sales volume.   we depend on key personnel in order to support our existing business and future expansion and may not be able to retain or replace these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel.   our success and our ability to execute our business strategy depends largely on the efforts of our management. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. we compete for experienced personnel with companies which have greater financial resources than we do. if we fail to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel, it could harm our business and limit our ability to expand.   covenants in our revolving and term credit facilities may impose operating restrictions.   our revolving and term credit facilities have financial covenants with respect to fixed charge coverage ratio, as well as other covenants. if we fail to meet these covenants or obtain appropriate waivers, our lender may terminate the revolving and/or term credit facility.   our business may be affected by regulatory, administrative and litigation developments.   laws and regulations at the local, state, federal, and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from regulatory or administrative changes. changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, accounting, privacy, operations, or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business.   14     natural disasters, war and acts of terrorism on the united states or international economies may adversely impact our business.   a significant act of terrorism or a natural disaster event in the united states or elsewhere could have an adverse impact on the delivery of imports or domestic products to us, or by disrupting production of our goods or interfering with our distribution or information systems. additionally, any of these events could result in higher costs of doing business, lower customer traffic and reduced consumer confidence and spending resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   the continued uncertainty in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents.   we have significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents at financial institutions that are in excess of federally insured limits. with the current financial environment and instability of financial institutions we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on our deposits.   health care reform could adversely affect our business.   the company’s expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. in march 2010, the united states government enacted health care reform legislation that will make significant changes to the health care payment and delivery system. the health reform legislation requires employers to provide employees with insurance coverage that meets minimum eligibility and coverage requirements or face penalties. the legislation also includes provisions that will impact the number of individuals with insurance coverage, the types of coverage and level of health benefits that will be required and the amount of payment providers performing health care services will receive. the legislation imposes implementation effective dates extending through 2020. many of the changes require additional guidance from government agencies or federal regulations. therefore, it is difficult to determine at this time what impact the health care reform legislation will have on our financial results.   we are pursuing a strategy of international expansion.   we currently intend to expand our operations into other countries in the future. currently, our justice brand has licensed stores in certain middle eastern countries, australia, central and south america and russia. as of fiscal 2012, both our justice and maurices brands have expanded into canada. in addition to the general risks associated with doing business in foreign markets, as disclosed in our prior filings, we run the risk of not being able to sustain our growth in these international markets or to penetrate new international markets in the future. as we penetrate these markets, there is increased risk of not fully complying with existing and future laws, rules and regulations of countries where we conduct business. as with any future business strategy, we can provide no assurance that our current and future international endeavors will be successful.   we utilize ports to import our products from asia and other regions.   we currently ship the vast majority of our products by ocean. if a disruption occurs in the operation of ports through which our products are imported, we and our vendors may have to ship some or all of our products from asia by air freight or to alternative shipping destinations in the united states. shipping by air is significantly more expensive than shipping by ocean and our profitability could be reduced. similarly, shipping to alternative destinations in the united states could lead to increased lead times and costs on our products. a disruption at ports (domestic or abroad) through which our products are imported could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.   we may experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate.   we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous international jurisdictions. we record tax expense based on our estimates of future tax payments, which include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of international and domestic tax audits. at any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. the results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. as a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are re-evaluated. further, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by taxing jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations.   15     our stock price may be volatile.   our stock price may fluctuate substantially as a result of quarter to quarter variations in our actual or anticipated financial results, the results of other companies in the retail industry, or the markets we serve. in addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other stocks and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies.   changes to accounting rules and regulations may adversely affect our results of operations.   changes to existing accounting rules or regulations may impact our future results of operations or cause the perception that we are more highly leveraged. other new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules and regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. for instance, accounting regulatory authorities have indicated that they may begin to require lessees to capitalize operating leases in their financial statements in the next few years. if adopted, such a change would require us to record a significant amount of lease related assets and liabilities on our balance sheet and make other changes to the recording and classification of lease related expenses on our statement of operations and cash flows. this and other future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.   failure to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively impact our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information.   we must continue to document, test, monitor and enhance our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting required under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act will prove to be adequate in the future. any failure to maintain the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or to comply with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act could have a material adverse impact on our business, our financial condition and the price of our common stock.   we are subject to cybersecurity risks and may incur increasing expenses to mitigate our exposure.   our business, and that of our third party service providers, employs systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding our customers, employees, job applicants, and others, including credit card information and personal identification information. security and/or privacy breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. we may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly-evolving types of cyber-attacks or intrusions. attacks may be targeted at us, our customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third party experts and consultants. advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. in addition, data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including breach by us or by our third party service providers that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. any compromise or breach of our security may result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation.   item 1b. unresolved