item 1a. risk factors. all currency figures expressed herein are expressed in thousands except share or purchase amounts. the company’s business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to stockholders and could cause the value of the company’s capital stock to decline. risks related to the company’s relationship with its manager the company depends on the manager and its key personnel for success and upon their access to apollo’s investment professionals and partners. the company may not find a suitable replacement for the manager if the management agreement is terminated, or if key personnel leave the employment of the manager or apollo or otherwise become unavailable to it. the company does not have any employees and relies completely on the manager to provide it with investment and advisory services. the company has no separate facilities and is completely reliant on the manager, which has significant discretion as to the implementation of the operating policies and strategies. the company depends on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the manager. the company benefits from the personnel, relationships and experience of the manager’s executive team and other personnel and investors of apollo. the executive officers and key personnel of the manager evaluate, negotiate, close and monitor investments; therefore, success depends on their continued service. the company also depends, to a significant extent, on the manager’s access to the investment professionals and partners of apollo and the industry insight and deal flow generated by the apollo investment professionals in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. the departure of any of the senior personnel of the manager, or of a significant number of the investment professionals or partners of apollo, could have a material adverse effect on the company’s ability to achieve its investment objectives. in addition, the company offers no assurance that the manager will remain the investment manager or that it will continue to have access to the manager’s or apollo’s executive officers and other investment professionals. the initial term of the management agreement with the manager only extends until july 27, 2014, the third anniversary of the closing of the ipo, with automatic one-year renewals thereafter. if the management agreement is terminated and no suitable replacement is found to manage it, the company may not be able to execute its business plan. the ability of the manager and its officers and other personnel to engage in other business activities may reduce the time the manager spends managing the business and may result in certain conflicts of interest. certain of the company’s officers and directors, and the officers and other personnel of the manager, also serve or may serve as officers, directors or partners of other apollo vehicles. further, the officers and other personnel of the manager may be called upon to provide managerial assistance to other apollo vehicles. these demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of the company’s investments. in addition, another affiliate of apollo manages through a separate account a portfolio of rmbs and other mortgage related assets. other than this separate account, no existing other apollo vehicle currently focuses on the company’s target asset classes as part of its core investment strategy and no existing other apollo vehicle currently holds significant investments in its target assets. it is possible that in the future other apollo vehicles as well as existing or future portfolio companies or funds or separate accounts managed by apollo may from time to time acquire the company’s target assets as a part of their larger business strategies. to the extent such other apollo vehicle or other vehicles that may be organized in the future seek to acquire the company’s target assets, the scope of opportunities otherwise available to the company may be adversely affected and/or reduced.   7 table of contents the company does not have a policy that expressly prohibits the company’s directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by it. the company does not have a policy that expressly prohibits the company’s directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by it. however, the company’s code of business conduct and ethics contains a conflicts of interest policy that prohibits the company’s directors and executive officers, as well as personnel of the manager, from engaging in any transaction that involves an actual conflict of interest except under guidelines approved by the company’s board of directors. directors, executive officers and personnel of the manager who are employees of apollo are also subject to apollo’s code of business conduct and ethics. in addition, the management agreement with the manager does not prevent the manager and its affiliates from engaging in additional management or investment opportunities, some of which could compete with it. the management agreement was negotiated between related parties and its terms, including fees payable to the manager, may not be as favorable to the company as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. the management agreement was negotiated between related parties and its terms, including fees payable to the manager may not be as favorable to the company as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. in addition, the company may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, the company’s rights under the management agreement because of the desire to maintain the company’s ongoing relationship with the manager. the termination of the management agreement may be difficult and require payment of a substantial termination fee or other amounts, including in the case of termination for unsatisfactory performance, which may adversely affect the company’s inclination to end the relationship with the manager. termination of the management agreement with the manager without cause is difficult and requires payment of a substantial termination fee or other amounts. the term “cause” is limited to specific circumstances laid out in the management agreement. termination for unsatisfactory financial performance does not constitute “cause” under the management agreement. the management agreement provides that, in the absence of cause, it may only be terminated at the expiration of the initial term or any renewal period, upon the vote of at least two-thirds of the company’s independent directors based upon: (i) the manager’s unsatisfactory performance that is materially detrimental to the company, or (ii) a determination that the management fees payable to the manager are not fair, subject to the manager’s right to prevent termination based on unfair fees by accepting a reduction of management fees agreed to by at least two-thirds of the company’s independent directors. the manager will be provided 180 days prior notice of any such termination. additionally, upon non-renewal or a termination by the company without cause (or upon a termination by the manager due to the company’s material breach), the management agreement provides that the company will pay the manager a termination payment equal to three times the average annual management fee earned by the manager during the 24-month period prior to such termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter. these provisions increase the effective cost to the company of electing not to renew, or defaulting in the company’s obligations under, the management agreement, thereby adversely affecting the company’s inclination to end its relationship with the manager, even if it believes the manager’s performance is not satisfactory. the manager is only contractually committed to serve the company until july 27, 2014, the third anniversary of the closing of the ipo. thereafter, the management agreement is renewable on an annual basis; provided, however, that the manager may terminate the management agreement annually upon 180 days prior notice. if the management agreement is terminated and no suitable replacement is found to manage the company, the company may not be able to execute its business plan.   8 table of contents the manager’s and apollo’s liability is limited under the management agreement, and the company has agreed to indemnify the manager against certain liabilities. as a result, the company could experience poor performance or losses for which the manager would not be liable. pursuant to the management agreement, the manager will not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder and will not be responsible for any action of the company’s board of directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. under the terms of the management agreement, the manager, its officers, members, managers, directors, personnel, any person controlling or controlled by the manager (including apollo) and any person providing services to the manager will not be liable to the company, any subsidiary of the company, the company’s stockholders or partners or any subsidiary’s stockholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement, except by reason of acts constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of their duties under the management agreement. in addition, the company has agreed to indemnify the manager, its officers, stockholders, members, managers, directors, personnel, any person controlling or controlled by the manager and any person providing services to the manager with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts of the manager not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of duties, performed in good faith in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement. the manager’s failure to make investments on favorable terms that satisfy the company’s investment strategy and otherwise generate attractive risk-adjusted returns from its assets initially and consistently from time to time in the future would materially and adversely affect it. the company’s ability to achieve its investment objectives depends on its ability to grow, which depends, in turn, on the management team of the manager and its ability to identify and to make investments on favorable terms that meet the company’s investment criteria as well as on its access to financing on acceptable terms. the company’s ability to grow is also dependent upon the manager’s ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage new personnel. the company may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. any failure to manage the company’s future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company does not own the apollo name, but it may use the name pursuant to a license agreement with apollo. use of the name by other parties or the termination of the company’s license agreement may harm its business. the company has entered into a license agreement with apollo pursuant to which it has granted the company a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name “apollo.” under this agreement, the company has a right to use this name for so long as the manager serves as the company’s manager pursuant to the management agreement. apollo retains the right to continue using the “apollo” name. the company cannot preclude apollo from licensing or transferring the ownership of the “apollo” name to third parties, some of whom may compete with the company. consequently, the company would be unable to prevent any damage to goodwill that may occur as a result of the activities of apollo or others. furthermore, in the event that the license agreement is terminated, the company will be required to change its name and cease using the name. any of these events could disrupt the company’s recognition in the market place, damage any goodwill it may have generated and otherwise harm its business. the license agreement will terminate concurrently with the termination of the management agreement. the manner of determining the management fee may not provide sufficient incentive to the manager to maximize risk-adjusted returns from its assets on the company’s investment portfolio since it is based on the company’s stockholders’ equity (as defined in the management agreement) and not on other measures of performance. the manager is entitled to receive a management fee that is based on the amount of the company’s stockholders’ equity (as defined in the management agreement) at the end of each quarter, regardless of the   9 table of contents company’s performance. the company’s stockholders’ equity for the purposes of calculating the management fee is not the same as, and could be greater than, the amount of stockholders’ equity shown on the company’s consolidated financial statements. the possibility exists that significant management fees could be payable to the manager for a given quarter despite the fact that the company could experience a net loss during that quarter. the manager’s entitlement to such compensation (regardless of performance) may not provide sufficient incentive to the manager to devote its time and effort to source and maximize risk-adjusted returns from its assets on the company’s investment portfolio, which could, in turn, adversely affect the company’s ability to pay dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its common stock. furthermore, the compensation payable to the manager will increase as a result of future equity offerings, even if the offering is dilutive to existing stockholders. the manager manages the company’s portfolio pursuant to very broad investment guidelines and the company’s board of directors does not approve each investment decision made by the manager, which may result in the company making riskier investments. the manager is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines. while the company’s directors periodically review its investment guidelines and its investment portfolio, they do not review all of the company’s proposed investments. in addition, in conducting periodic reviews, the company’s directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by the manager. furthermore, the manager may use complex strategies and transactions entered into by the manager that may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the company’s directors. the manager has great latitude within the broad investment guidelines in determining the types of assets it may decide are proper investments for the company, which could result in investment returns that are substantially below expectations or that result in losses, which would materially and adversely affect the company’s business operations and results. decisions made and investments entered into by the manager may not fully reflect your best interests. the manager may change its investment process, or elect not to follow it, without stockholder consent at any time which may adversely affect the company’s investments. the manager may change its investment process without stockholder consent at any time. in addition, there can be no assurance that the manager will follow the investment process in relation to the identification and underwriting of prospective investments. changes in the manager’s investment process may result in inferior due diligence and underwriting standards, which may affect the company’s investments. there are various conflicts of interest in the company’s relationship with apollo which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of its stockholders. the company is subject to conflicts of interest arising out of its relationship with apollo, including the manager. in the future, the company may enter into additional transactions with apollo. in particular, the company may invest in, or acquire, certain of its investments through other apollo vehicles, including joint ventures with affiliates of apollo or purchase assets from, sell assets to or arrange financing from or provide financing to new affiliated potential pooled investment vehicles or managed accounts not yet established, whether managed or sponsored by apollo’s affiliates or the manager. any such transactions will require approval by a majority of the company’s independent directors. in certain instances the company may invest alongside other apollo vehicles in different parts of the capital structure of the same issuer. depending on the size and nature of such investment, such transactions may require approval by a majority of the company’s independent directors. there can be no assurance that any procedural protections will be sufficient to assure that these transactions will be made on terms that will be at least as favorable to the company as those that would have been obtained in an arm’s length transaction. the manager and apollo have agreed that, for so long as the management agreement is in effect and apollo controls the manager, neither they nor any entity controlled by apollo will sponsor or manage any u.s.   10 table of contents publicly traded reit that invests primarily in the company’s target asset classes. however, the manager, apollo and their respective affiliates may sponsor or manage another u.s. publicly traded reit that invests generally in real estate assets but not primarily in the company’s target assets. a private equity fund managed by apollo has made an investment in and controls vantium capital markets, l.p. (“vantium”), an entity that invests in residential mortgages and other related assets. vantium is in the process of winding down its existing portfolio of mortgage assets and has ceased acquiring assets. in addition, another affiliate of apollo manages through a separate account a portfolio of rmbs and other mortgage related assets. other than vantium and this separate account, no existing other apollo vehicle currently focuses on the company’s target asset classes as part of its core investment strategy and no existing other apollo vehicle currently holds significant investments in its target assets. it is possible that in the future other apollo vehicles as well as existing or future portfolio companies or funds or separate accounts managed by apollo may from time to time acquire the company’s target assets as a part of their larger business strategies. to the extent such other apollo vehicles or other vehicles that may be organized in the future seek to acquire the company’s target assets, the scope of opportunities otherwise available to the company may be adversely affected and/or reduced. the manager and apollo have an investment allocation policy in place that is intended to ensure that every apollo vehicle, including the company, is treated in a manner that, over time, is fair and equitable. according to this policy, investments may be allocated by taking into account factors, including but not limited to, available capital and net asset value of the investment vehicles, suitability of the investment, order size, investment objectives, permitted leverage and available financing, current income expectations, the size, liquidity and duration of the available investment, seniority, and other capital structure considerations and the tax implications of an investment. in certain circumstances, the allocation policy provides for the allocation of investments pursuant to a pre-defined arrangement that is other than pro-rata. the investment allocation policy may be amended by the manager and apollo at any time without the company’s consent. in addition to the fees payable to the manager under the management agreement, the manager and its affiliates may benefit from other fees paid to it in respect of the company’s investments. for example, if the company seeks to securitize its residential mortgage loans, apollo and/or the manager may act as collateral manager. in addition, an affiliate of apollo may act as servicer for some of the company’s mortgage loans or for any securitization vehicles it may establish. in any of these or other capacities, affiliates of apollo and/or the manager may receive market based fees for their roles, but only if approved by a majority of the company’s independent directors. possession of material, non-public information could prevent the company from undertaking advantageous transactions; apollo could decide to establish information barriers. apollo generally follows an open architecture approach to information sharing within the larger apollo organization and does not normally impose information barriers among apollo and certain of its affiliates. if the manager were to receive material non-public information about a particular real estate-related entity, or have an interest in investing in a particular real estate-related entity, apollo or its affiliates may be prevented from investing in such company. conversely, if apollo or its affiliates were to receive material non-public information about a particular real estate-related entity, or have an interest in investing in a particular real estate-related entity, the company may be prevented from investing in such company. this risk affects the company more than it does investment vehicles that are not related to apollo, as apollo generally does not use information barriers that many firms implement to separate persons who make investment decisions from others who might possess material, non-public information that could influence such decisions. apollo’s approach to these barriers could prevent the manager’s investment professionals from undertaking advantageous investments or dispositions that would be permissible for them otherwise. in addition, apollo could in the future decide to establish information barriers, particularly as its business expands and diversifies. in such event, apollo’s ability to operate as an integrated platform will be restricted and the manager’s resources may be limited.   11 table of contents investigations and reviews of apollo affiliates’ use of placement agents could harm the company’s reputation, depress its stock price or have other negative consequences. affiliates of the manager sometimes use placement agents to assist in marketing certain of the investment funds that they manage. various state attorneys general and federal and state agencies have initiated industry-wide investigations into the use of placement agents in connection with the solicitation of investments, particularly with respect to investments by public pension funds. certain affiliates of the manager have received subpoenas and other requests for information from various government regulatory agencies and investors in apollo’s funds, seeking information regarding the use of placement agents. the california public employees’ retirement system, (“calpers”) one of apollo’s strategic investors, announced on october 14, 2009, that it had initiated a special review of placement agents and related issues. the report of the calpers special review was issued on march 14, 2011. that report does not allege any wrongdoing on the part of apollo or its affiliates. in addition, on may 6, 2010, the california attorney general filed a civil complaint against alfred villalobos and his company, arvco capital research, llc (a placement agent that apollo has used) and federico buenrostro jr., the former ceo of calpers, alleging conduct in violation of certain california laws in connection with calpers’ purchase of securities in various funds managed by affiliates of the manager and another asset manager. none of the company, the manager or any other apollo entity is a party to the civil lawsuit, nor does the lawsuit allege any misconduct on the part of any apollo entity. finally, on december 29, 2011, the united states bankruptcy court for the district of nevada approved an application made by mr. villalobos, arvco and related entities (the “arvco debtors”) in their consolidated bankruptcy proceedings to hire special litigation counsel to pursue certain claims on behalf of the bankruptcy estates of the arvco debtors, including potential claims against apollo (a) for fees that apollo purportedly owes the arvco debtors for placement agent services, and (b) for indemnification of legal fees and expenses arising out of the arvco debtors’ defense of the california attorney general action described above. apollo has informed the company that it believes that it has handled its use of placement agents in an appropriate manner and that it is cooperating with such investigations and other reviews. any unanticipated developments from these or future investigations or changes in industry practice may adversely affect apollo’s business (including with respect to the manager) or indirectly thereby, the company’s business. even if these investigations or changes in industry practice do not directly or indirectly affect apollo’s or the company’s respective businesses, adverse publicity could harm the company’s reputation and may depress its stock price or have other negative consequences. risks related to the company the company has limited operating history and may not be able to operate its business successfully, find suitable investments, or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to its stockholders. the company commenced operations on july 27, 2011 and has limited operating history. the company cannot assure its stockholders that it will be able to operate its business successfully, find suitable investments or implement its operating policies and strategies. the company’s ability to provide attractive risk-adjusted returns from its assets to its stockholders over the long term is dependent on its ability both to generate sufficient cash flow to pay an attractive dividend and to achieve capital appreciation, and the company may not do either. the company may not be able to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay its operating expenses and to continue to make distributions to stockholders. the results of the company’s operations and the implementation of its business plan depend on several factors, including the availability of opportunities for investment in the company’s target assets, the level and volatility of interest rates, the availability of adequate equity capital as well as short and long-term financing, conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions. difficult and volatile conditions in the mortgage and residential real estate markets as well as the broader financial markets may cause the company to experience market losses related to its asset portfolio and there can be no assurance that it will be successful in implementing its business strategies amidst these conditions. the company’s results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the market for mortgages and mortgage-related assets, including rmbs, as well as the residential real estate market, the financial markets   12 table of contents and the economy generally. continuing concerns about the mortgage market and a declining real estate market, as well as inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, unemployment and the availability and cost of credit, have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and markets going forward. in particular, the u.s. residential mortgage market has been severely affected by changes in the lending landscape and has experienced defaults, credit losses and significant liquidity concerns, and there is no assurance that these conditions have stabilized or that they will not worsen. beginning with the onset of the credit crisis in 2007, there has been significant volatility in non-agency rmbs prices as a result of trends in market technicals such as prepayment rates and delinquency rates, and forced selling by hedge funds and other institutions as a result of market conditions. these factors have impacted investor perception of the risk associated with residential mortgage loans, rmbs, real estate-related securities and various other assets the company may acquire. as a result, values for agency rmbs, non-agency rmbs, residential mortgage loans, and other residential mortgage assets the company has acquired or may acquire in the future, have experienced volatility which could result in sudden declines in their value. declines in the value of the company’s portfolio, or perceived market uncertainty about the value of its assets, would likely make it difficult for the company to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. the company’s profitability may be materially adversely affected if it is unable to obtain cost effective financing. a continuation or increase in the volatility and deterioration in the broader residential mortgage and rmbs markets as well as the broader financial markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of the company’s assets, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to its stockholders. the company operates in a competitive market for investment opportunities and future competition may limit its ability to acquire desirable investments in the company’s target assets and could also affect the pricing of these securities. a number of entities compete with the company in acquiring assets and obtaining financing. in acquiring target assets, the company competes with other reits, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, financial institutions, governmental bodies and other entities. in addition, other reits with similar asset acquisition objectives, including a number that have been recently formed, and others that may be organized in the future, compete with the company in acquiring assets and obtaining financing. these competitors may be significantly larger than the company, may have access to greater capital and other resources or may have other advantages. in addition, some competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments, and establish more relationships, than the company. current market conditions may attract more competitors, which may increase the competition for sources of financing. an increase in the competition for sources of funding could adversely affect the availability and cost of financing, and thereby adversely affect the market price of the company’s common stock. many of the company’s competitors are not subject to the operating constraints associated with reit qualification or maintenance of the company’s exemption from the 1940 act. furthermore, competition for investments in the company’s target assets may lead to the price of such assets increasing, which may further limit the company’s ability to generate desired returns. the company cannot assure you that the competitive pressures it faces will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. also, as a result of this competition, the company may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and the company can offer no assurance that it will continue to be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with its investment objective. the company may change its operational policies (including its investment guidelines, strategies and policies and the targeted assets in which it invests) with the approval of the company’s board of directors but without stockholder consent or notice at any time, which may adversely affect the market value of the company’s common stock and its ability to make distributions to its stockholders. the company’s board of directors determines its operational policies and may amend or revise its policies, including the company’s policies with respect to the targeted assets in which it invest, dispositions, growth,   13 table of contents operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, the company’s stockholders at any time. the company may change its investment guidelines and its strategy, at any time with the approval of its board of directors but without the consent of or notice to its stockholders, which could result in the company making investments that are different in type from, and possibly riskier than, the investments originally contemplated. the company uses leverage as part of its business strategy in order to increase potential returns to stockholders but it does not have a formal policy limiting the amount of debt it may incur. the company’s board of directors may change its leverage policy without stockholder consent. the company uses leverage as part of its business strategy in order to increase potential returns to stockholders but it does not have a formal policy limiting the amount of debt it may incur. the amount of leverage it deploys for particular investments in its target assets depends upon the manager’s assessment of a variety of factors, which include the availability of particular types of financing and the manager’s assessment of the credit, liquidity, price volatility and other risks of those assets and the creditworthiness of its financing counterparties. the company’s charter and bylaws do not limit the amount of indebtedness it can incur, and the company’s board of directors has discretion to deviate from or change its leverage policy at any time. the company’s board of directors may change its leverage policy at any time without the consent of its stockholders, which could result in an investment portfolio with a different risk profile. the company’s ability to generate returns for its stockholders through its investment, finance and operating strategies is subject to then existing market conditions, and it may make significant changes to these strategies in response to changing market conditions. in the future, to the extent that market conditions stabilize or change and the company has sufficient capital to do so, it may, depending on prevailing market conditions, change its investment guidelines in response to opportunities available in different interest rate, economic and credit environments. as a result, the company cannot predict the percentage of its equity that will be invested in any of its target assets at any given time. the company depends on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt its business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of the company’s common stock and its ability to make distributions to its stockholders. the company’s business depends on the communications and information systems of apollo. any failure or interruption of apollo’s systems could cause delays or other problems in the company’s securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s operating results and negatively affect the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends to stockholders. the company cannot at the present time predict the unintended consequences and market distortions that may stem from far-ranging governmental intervention in the economic and financial system or from regulatory reform of the oversight of financial markets. the u.s. government, the u.s. federal reserve, the u.s. treasury, the sec and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are taking various actions in an effort to address the underlying causes of, and to contain the fallout from, the recent global financial crisis. the far-ranging government intervention in the economic and financial system may carry unintended consequences and cause market distortions. the company is unable to predict at this time the extent and nature of such unintended consequences and market distortions, if any. on july 21, 2010 president obama signed into law the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the “dodd-frank act”). the dodd-frank act may impact the residential mortgage loan securitization market in that it seeks to reform the asset-backed securitization market (including the mortgage-backed securities market) by requiring the retention of a portion of the credit risk inherent in the pool of securitized assets. the dodd-frank act creates a new regulator, the consumer financial protection bureau,   14 table of contents which will now oversee many of the core laws which regulate the mortgage industry, including among others the real estate settlement procedures act and the truth in lending act. additionally, the sec has adopted significant changes to regulation ab, which regulates securitization procedures and processes, which could have sweeping changes to residential mortgage loan securitization markets as well as to the market for the resecuritization of mortgage-backed securities. such changes, among other things, require that issuers of asset-backed securities include disclose about certain fulfilled and unfulfilled repurchase demands for asset-backed securities, conduct reviews of the asset pools underlying asset-backed securities, and publicly disclose the results of such reviews. the sec has also proposed rules which would require issuers and underwriters to make any third-party due diligence reports on asset-backed securities publicly available. in addition to the foregoing, the u.s. government, u.s. federal reserve, u.s. treasury and other governmental and regulatory bodies may enact additional legislation or regulatory action designed to address the underlying causes of, and to contain the fallout from, the recent crisis or for other purposes that could have a material and adverse effect on the company’s ability to execute its business strategies. the company cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur. however, such actions could have a dramatic impact on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition, and the cost of complying with any additional laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the assets that the company acquires. the u.s. government, through the u.s. federal reserve, the federal housing administration (the “fha”), and the federal deposit insurance corporation, has implemented a number of federal programs designed to assist homeowners, including the home affordable modification program, which provides homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures, the hope for homeowners program, which allows certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into fha-insured loans in order to avoid residential mortgage loan foreclosures, and the home affordable refinance program, which allows borrowers who are current on their mortgage payments to refinance and reduce their monthly mortgage payments without new mortgage insurance, up to an unlimited loan-to-value ratios for fixed rate mortgages. in addition, current administration officials and certain members of the u.s. congress have indicated support for additional legislative relief for homeowners, including an amendment of the bankruptcy laws to permit the modification of mortgage loans in bankruptcy proceedings. loan modifications are more likely to be used when borrowers are less able to refinance or sell their homes due to market conditions, and when the potential recovery from a foreclosure is reduced due to lower property values. a significant number of loan modifications could result in a significant reduction in cash flows to the holders of the mortgage securities on an ongoing basis. amendments to the bankruptcy laws that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the assets that the company intends to acquire. the diminished level of agency participation in and other changes in the role of the agencies in the mortgage market may adversely affect the company’s business. if agency participation in the mortgage market were reduced or eliminated, or their structures were to change, the company’s ability to acquire agency rmbs could be adversely affected. these developments could also materially and adversely impact the company’s then existing agency rmbs portfolio. the company could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold for the agencies. the company relies on its agency rmbs (as well as non-agency rmbs) as collateral for its financings under the repurchase agreements that it enters into. any decline in their value, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, may make it more difficult for the company to obtain financing on its agency rmbs on acceptable terms or at all, or to maintain the company’s compliance with the terms of any financing transactions. further, the current support provided by the u.s. treasury to fannie mae and freddie mac, and any additional support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rates the company expects to receive from agency rmbs, thereby tightening the spread between the interest the company earns on the company’s agency rmbs and the cost of financing those assets. a reduction in the supply of agency rmbs could also negatively affect the pricing of agency rmbs by reducing the spread between the interest the   15 table of contents company earns on its portfolio of agency securities and its cost of financing that portfolio. future legislation affecting the agencies may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or the agencies. as a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on the company’s investments in agency rmbs. it also is possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade. all of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect the company’s business, operations and financial condition. the company’s ability to originate residential mortgage loans in the future could be limited by the increasing number of proposed u.s. federal, state and local laws affecting certain mortgage-related assets. legislation has been proposed which, among other provisions, could hinder the ability of a servicer to foreclose promptly on defaulted mortgage loans or would permit limited assignee liability for certain violations in the mortgage loan origination process, which could result in the manager or the company being held responsible for violations in the mortgage loan origination process. the company cannot predict whether or in what form the u.s. congress or the various state and local legislatures may enact legislation affecting the company’s business. the company will evaluate the potential impact of any initiatives which, if enacted, could affect its future practices and results of operations. the company is unable to predict whether u.s. federal, state or local authorities will enact laws, rules or regulations that will require changes in its practices in the future, and any such changes could adversely affect its cost of doing business and profitability. loss of the company’s exemption under the 1940 act would adversely affect the company, the market price of shares of its common stock and its ability to distribute dividends, and could result in the termination of the management agreement with the manager. the company is organized as a holding company and conducts its businesses primarily through arm operating, llc. both apollo residential mortgage, inc. and arm operating, llc conduct operations so that they comply with the 40% test. in addition, certain of the company’s subsidiaries rely upon the exemption from registration as an investment company under the 1940 act pursuant to section 3(c)(5)(c) of the 1940 act, which is available for entities “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” this exemption generally means that at least 55% of each such subsidiaries’ total assets must be comprised of qualifying assets and at least another 25% of its total assets must be comprised of qualifying assets and real estate-related assets under the 1940 act. the company takes the position that qualifying assets for this purpose include mortgage loans where 100% of the loan is secured by real estate when the company acquires it and the company has the unilateral right to foreclose on the loan and other assets, such as the entire ownership in whole pool agency and non-agency rmbs, that the sec staff in various no-action letters or other pronouncements has determined are the functional equivalent of whole mortgage loans for purposes of the 1940 act. while the sec staff has issued a no-action letter that permits the treatment of such interests in agency whole pool rmbs as qualifying assets, no such sec staff guidance is available with respect to non-agency whole pool rmbs. accordingly, the company relies on its own judgment and analysis in treating non-agency whole pool rmbs as qualifying assets by analogy to agency whole pool rmbs. the company expects each of its subsidiaries relying on section 3(c)(5)(c) to rely on guidance published by the sec staff or on the company’s analyses of guidance published with respect to other types of assets to determine which assets are qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets. the sec recently solicited public comment on a wide range of issues relating to section 3(c)(5)(c) of the 1940 act, including the nature of the assets that qualify for purposes of the exemption. there can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the 1940 act status of companies relying on section 3(c)(5)(c) of the 1940 act, including the sec or its staff providing more specific or different guidance regarding this exemption, will not change in a manner that adversely affects the company’s operations. to the extent that the sec staff provides more specific guidance regarding any of the matters bearing upon such exemption, the company may be required to adjust its strategy accordingly. any additional guidance from the sec staff could provide additional flexibility to the company, or it could further inhibit the company’s ability to pursue the strategies it has chosen.   16 table of contents if the sec or its staff takes a position contrary to the company’s analysis with respect to the characterization of its target assets, the company may be deemed an unregistered investment company. therefore, in order not to be required to register as an investment company, the company may need to dispose of a significant portion of its assets or acquire significant other additional assets which may have lower returns than the company’s expected portfolio, or the company may need to modify its business plan to register as an investment company, which would result in significantly increased operating expenses and would likely entail significantly reducing the company’s indebtedness, which could also require it to sell a significant portion of its assets. the company cannot assure investors that it would be able to complete these dispositions or acquisitions of assets, or deleveraging, on favorable terms, or at all. consequently, any modification of the company’s business plan could have a material adverse effect on it. further, if the sec determined that the company was an unregistered investment company, it would be subject to monetary penalties and injunctive relief in an action brought by the sec, the company would potentially be unable to enforce contracts with third parties and third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions undertaken during the period for which it was established that the company was an unregistered investment company. any of these results would have a material adverse effect on the company. to the extent that the sec staff provides more specific guidance regarding any of the matters bearing upon such exclusions, the company may be required to adjust its strategy accordingly. any additional guidance from the sec staff could provide additional flexibility to the company, or it could further inhibit the company’s ability to pursue the strategies it has chosen. rapid changes in the values of the company’s target assets may make it more difficult for the company to maintain its qualification as a reit or its exemption from the 1940 act. if the market value or income potential of the company’s target assets declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates, general market conditions, government actions or other factors, the company may need to increase its real estate assets and income or liquidate its non-qualifying assets to maintain its reit qualification or its exemption from the 1940 act. if the decline in real estate asset values or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. this difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of any non-real estate assets the company may own. the company may have to make decisions that it otherwise would not make absent the reit and 1940 act considerations. risks related to financing the company uses leverage in executing its business strategy, which may adversely affect the return on its assets and may reduce cash available for distribution to its stockholders, as well as increase losses when economic conditions are unfavorable. the company currently finances its agency rmbs with repurchase agreement financing. over time, as market conditions change, in addition to these financings, the company may use other forms of leverage. weakness in the financial markets, the residential mortgage markets and the economy generally could adversely affect one or more of the company’s potential lenders and could cause one or more of its potential lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide it with financing or to increase the costs of that financing. the return on the company’s assets and cash available for distribution to its stockholders may be reduced to the extent that market conditions prevent it from leveraging the company’s assets or increase the cost of its financing relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. the company’s financing costs will reduce cash available for distributions to stockholders. the company may not be able to meet its financing obligations and, to the extent that the company cannot, it risks the loss of some or all of the company’s assets to liquidation or sale to satisfy the obligations.   17 table of contents the company depends on repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities, securitizations, resecuritizations and bank credit facilities (including term loans and revolving facilities) to execute its business plan, and its inability to access funding could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations, financial condition and business. the company relies on short-term financing and thus is especially exposed to changes in the availability of financing. the company’s ability to fund its acquisitions may be impacted by its ability to secure financing on acceptable terms. the company relies on short-term financing and thus is especially exposed to changes in the availability of financing. for example, the term of a repurchase transaction under a master repurchase agreement is typically 30 to 90 days, but in some cases may be longer. it is possible that the lenders that will provide the company with financing could experience changes in their ability to advance funds to the company, independent of the company’s performance or the performance of its portfolio of assets. furthermore, if many of the company’s potential lenders are unwilling or unable to provide it with financing, the company could be forced to sell its assets at an inopportune time when prices are depressed. in addition, if the regulatory capital requirements imposed on the company’s lenders change, they may be required to significantly increase the cost of the financing that they provide to it. the company’s lenders also may revise their eligibility requirements for the types of assets they are willing to finance or the terms of such financings, based on, among other factors, the regulatory environment and their management of perceived risk, particularly with respect to assignee liability. the recent dislocations in the residential mortgage sector have caused many lenders to tighten their lending standards, reduce their lending capacity or exit the market altogether. in addition, certain lenders have been impacted by the european sovereign debt crisis. further contraction among lenders, insolvency of lenders or other general market disruptions could adversely affect one or more of the company’s potential lenders and could cause one or more of the company’s potential lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide it with financing on attractive terms or at all. this could increase the company’s financing costs and reduce its access to liquidity. furthermore, if many of the company’s potential lenders are unwilling or unable to provide it with financing, the company could be forced to sell its assets at an inopportune time when prices are depressed. an increase in the company’s borrowing costs relative to the interest it receives on its leveraged assets may adversely affect the company’s profitability and its cash available for distribution to its stockholders. borrowing rates are currently at historically low levels that may not be sustained in the long run. as the company’s repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowings mature, it will be required either to enter into new borrowings or to sell certain of the company’s assets. an increase in short-term interest rates at the time that the company seeks to enter into new borrowings would reduce the spread between the returns on its assets and the cost of its borrowings. this would adversely affect the returns on the company’s assets, which might reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to its stockholders. in addition, because repurchase agreements and warehouse facilities are short-term commitments of capital, lenders may respond to market conditions making it more difficult for the company to secure continued financing. if the company is not able to renew its then existing facilities or arrange for new financing on terms acceptable to the company, or if it defaults on its covenants or are otherwise unable to access funds under any of these facilities, the company may have to curtail its asset acquisition activities and/or dispose of assets. interest rate fluctuations could reduce the income on the company’s investments and increase its financing costs. changes in interest rates will affect the company’s operating results as such changes will affect the interest it receives on its floating rate interest bearing investments and the financing cost of the company’s debt, as well as its interest rate swaps that the company utilizes for hedging purposes. changes in interest rates may also affect borrower default rates, which may result in losses for the company.   18 table of contents if a counterparty to the company’s repurchase transactions defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to the company at the end of the transaction term or if the value of the underlying security has declined as of the end of that term or if the company defaults on its obligations under the repurchase agreement, the company will lose money on its repurchase transactions. when the company engages in repurchase transactions, it sells securities to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) and receives cash from the lenders. the lenders are obligated to resell the same securities back to the company at the end of the term of the transaction. because the cash the company receives from the lender when it initially sells the securities to the lender is less than the value of those securities (this difference is referred to as the haircut), if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same securities back to the company, the company could incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities). the company could also lose money on a repurchase transaction if the value of the underlying securities has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as the company would have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount. further, if the company defaults on one of its obligations under a repurchase transaction, the lender will be able to terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with the company. certain of the company’s repurchase agreements also contain cross-default or other similar provisions. under the company’s repurchase agreements with such provisions, the lender could declare a default (or in certain cases, accelerate the company’s debt obligations rather than declare a default) if a default (or other similar event) were to occur under the company’s other repurchase agreements or similar arrangements (whether with that lender, the affiliates of that lender or a third party lender) after the expiration of any cure periods under such other arrangements. the specific nature of these cross-defaults (or similar provisions) varies among the company’s various repurchase agreements that contain such provisions. if such a default (or other similar event) were to occur and the lenders terminate one or more repurchase agreement, the company may need to enter into replacement repurchase agreements with different lenders. there can be no assurance that the company will be successful in entering into such replacement repurchase agreements on the same terms as the repurchase agreements that were terminated or at all. any losses the company incurs on its repurchase agreements could adversely affect its earnings and thus its cash available for distribution to the company’s stockholders. the company’s rights under its repurchase agreements may be subject to the effects of the bankruptcy laws in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the company or its lenders under the repurchase agreements, which may allow the company’s lenders to repudiate its repurchase agreements. in the event of the company’s insolvency or bankruptcy, certain repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the u.s. bankruptcy code, the effect of which, among other things, would be to allow the lender under the applicable repurchase agreement to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the u.s. bankruptcy code and to foreclose on the collateral agreement without delay. in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a lender during the term of a repurchase agreement, the lender may be permitted, under applicable insolvency laws, to repudiate the contract, and the company’s claim against the lender for damages may be treated simply as an unsecured creditor. in addition, if the lender is a broker or dealer subject to the securities investor protection act of 1970, or an insured depository institution subject to the federal deposit insurance act, the company’s ability to exercise its rights to recover its securities under a repurchase agreement or to be compensated for any damages resulting from the lender’s insolvency may be further limited by those statutes. these claims would be subject to significant delay and, if and when received, may be substantially less than the damages the company actually incurs. the repurchase agreements that the company uses to finance its asset acquisitions may require the company to provide additional collateral and may restrict it from leveraging its assets as fully as desired. the company uses repurchase agreements and may in the future use other sources of financing, including, warehouse facilities, securitizations and bank credit facilities to finance its asset acquisitions. the company’s repurchase agreements are uncommitted and the counterparty may refuse to advance funds under the agreements   19 table of contents to it. if the market value of the loans or securities pledged or sold by the company to a funding source decline in value, the lending institution may have the right to initiate a margin call in its sole discretion, which would require the company to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced, but the company may not have the funds available to do so. posting additional collateral will reduce the company’s liquidity and its ability to make distributions to the company’s stockholders and limit its ability to leverage its assets, which could adversely affect the company’s business and could cause the value of its common stock to decline. the company may be forced to sell assets at significantly depressed prices to meet margin calls, post additional collateral and to maintain adequate liquidity, which could cause it to incur losses. moreover, to the extent the company is forced to sell assets at such time, given market conditions, it may be selling at the same time as others facing similar pressures, which could exacerbate a difficult market environment and which could result in the company incurring significantly greater losses on its sale of such assets. in an extreme case of market duress, a market may not even be present for certain of the company’s assets at any price. in the event the company does not have sufficient liquidity to meet margin calls and post additional collateral, lending institutions can accelerate repayment of the company’s indebtedness, increase its borrowing rates, liquidate its collateral or terminate its ability to borrow. such a situation would likely result in a rapid deterioration of the company’s financial condition and possibly necessitate a filing for protection under the u.s. bankruptcy code. in the event of the company’s bankruptcy, its borrowings may qualify for special treatment under the u.s. bankruptcy code. this special treatment would allow the lenders under these agreements to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the u.s. bankruptcy code and to liquidate the collateral under these agreements without delay. further, financial institutions may require the company to maintain a certain amount of cash that is not invested or to set aside non-levered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position which would allow the company to satisfy its collateral obligations. as a result, the company may not be able to leverage its assets as fully as it would choose, which could reduce the company’s return on equity. if the company is unable to meet these collateral obligations, then, as described above, its financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. certain of the company’s financing facilities contain covenants that restrict its operations and may inhibit the company’s ability to grow its business and increase revenues. certain of the company’s financing facilities contain restrictions, covenants, and representations and warranties that, among other things, may require the company to satisfy specified financial, asset quality, loan eligibility and loan performance tests. if the company fails to meet or satisfy any of these covenants or representations and warranties, it would be in default under these agreements and its lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their respective interests against collateral pledged under such agreements and restrict the company’s ability to make additional borrowings. certain of the company’s financing agreements may also contain cross-default or other similar provisions. under the company’s financing agreements with such provisions, the lender could declare a default (or in certain cases, accelerate the company’s debt obligations rather than declare a default) if a default (or other similar event) were to occur under the company’s other financing or similar arrangements (whether with that lender, the affiliates of that lender or a third party lender) after the expiration of any cure periods under such other arrangements. the specific nature of these cross-defaults (or similar provisions) varies among the company’s various financing agreements that contain such provisions. the covenants and restrictions in the company’s current and future financing facilities may restrict its ability to, among other things:     •   incur or guarantee additional debt;     •   make certain investments or acquisitions;   20 table of contents   •   make distributions on or repurchase or redeem capital stock;     •   engage in mergers or consolidations;     •   reduce liquidity below certain levels;     •   grant liens or incur operating losses for more than a specified period; and     •   enter into transactions with affiliates. these restrictions may interfere with the company’s ability to obtain financing, including the financing needed to qualify as a reit, or to engage in other business activities, which may significantly limit or harm the company’s business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. a default and resulting repayment acceleration could significantly reduce the company’s liquidity, which could require it to sell the company’s assets to repay amounts due and outstanding. this could also significantly harm the company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and its ability to make distributions, which could cause the value of the company’s common stock to decline. a default will also significantly limit the company financing alternatives such that it will be unable to pursue the company’s leverage strategy, which could curtail the returns on its assets. if the company acquires and subsequently re-sells any mortgage loans, it may be required to repurchase such loans or indemnify investors if it breaches representations and warranties. if the company acquires and subsequently re-sell any mortgage loans, it would generally be required to make customary representations and warranties about such loans to the loan purchaser. residential mortgage loan sale agreements and terms of any securitizations into which the company may sell loans will generally require the company to repurchase or substitute loans in the event it breaches a representation or warranty given to the loan purchaser. in addition, the company may be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default on a mortgage loan. the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans are generally broader than those available to the company against an originating broker or correspondent. repurchased loans are typically worth only a fraction of the original price. significant repurchase activity could materially adversely affect the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations and its ability to make distributions to its stockholders. securitizations would expose the company to additional risks. based on the manager’s assessment of market conditions, the company may acquire residential mortgage loans with the intention of securitizing them and retaining all or a part of the securitized assets in its portfolio. to the extent that the company securitizes residential mortgage loans, the company will often hold the most junior certificates associated with a securitization. as a holder of the most junior certificates, the company is more exposed to losses on the portfolio investments because the equity interest it retains in the issuing entity would be subordinate to the more senior notes issued to investors and the company would, therefore, absorb all of the losses sustained with respect to a securitized pool of assets before the owners of the notes experience any losses. moreover, the company believes that the return of an active private rmbs market is going to take some time to develop as rating agencies recalibrate risk metrics and sort through the evolving regulatory landscape for the private rmbs market, and the company cannot be assured that it will in fact be able to access the securitization market, or be able to do so at favorable rates. the inability to securitize the company’s portfolio could hurt its performance and the company’s ability to grow its business. risks related to hedging the company may enter into hedging transactions that could expose it to contingent liabilities in the future and adversely impact its financial condition. subject to maintaining the company’s qualification as a reit, part of the company’s strategy involves entering into hedging transactions that could require it to fund cash payments in certain circumstances (e.g., the   21 table of contents early termination of the hedging instrument caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the hedging instrument). the amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. these economic losses will be reflected in the company’s results of operations, and its ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of the company’s assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact the company’s financial condition. the use of interest rate hedges will introduce the risk of interest rate mismatches and exposures, which could materially adversely affect the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations and ability to make distributions to its stockholders. the company’s adjustable-rate rmbs is generally subject to interest rate caps, which potentially could cause such rmbs to acquire many of the characteristics of fixed-rate securities if interest rates were to rise above the cap levels. this issue will be magnified to the extent the company acquires adjustable-rate and hybrid mortgage assets that are not based on mortgages which are fully indexed. in addition, adjustable-rate and hybrid mortgage assets may be subject to periodic payment caps that result in some portion of the interest being deferred and added to the principal outstanding. this could result in the company’s receipt of less cash income on such assets than it would need to pay the interest cost on its related borrowings. during periods of changing interest rates, these mismatches could cause the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations and ability to make distributions to its stockholders to be materially adversely affected. hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect the company’s earnings, which could reduce the company’s cash available for distribution to its stockholders. subject to maintaining the company’s qualification as a reit, the company may pursue various hedging strategies to seek to reduce its exposure to adverse changes in interest rates. the company’s hedging activity varies in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held and other changing market conditions. the company’s hedging transactions, which are intended to limit losses, may actually adversely affect its earnings, which could reduce the company’s cash available for distribution to its stockholders. in addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any u.s. or foreign governmental authorities. consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying hedging transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. the business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom the company enters into a hedging transaction will most likely result in its default. default by a party with whom the company enters into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force the company to cover its commitments, if any, at the then current market price. although generally the company seeks to reserve the right to terminate its hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty and the company may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover its risk. the company cannot assure investors that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and the company may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses.   22 table of contents the company’s operating results may suffer because losses on the derivatives may not be offset by a change in the fair value of the related hedged transaction. the company intends to record derivative and hedging transactions in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. (“gaap”). in order to mitigate interest rate risk resulting from the company’s floating-rate borrowings the company entered into interest rate swaps and caps. the interest rate swaps are intended to hedge the floating-rate borrowings through the expected maturity of the underlying collateral and the interest rate caps are intended to hedge the floating-rate borrowings related to the potential extension of the underlying collateral. however, the company chose not to pursue hedge accounting for these derivative instruments and will record the change in estimated fair value related to interest rate agreements in earnings. as a result, the company’s operating results may suffer because losses, if any, on these derivative instruments may not be offset by a change in the fair value of the related hedged transaction or item. risks related to the company’s assets the company may not realize gains or income from its assets, which could cause the value of its common stock to decline. the company seeks to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns from its assets to its stockholders over the long term, primarily through dividend distributions and secondarily through capital appreciation. however, the assets the company acquires may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value, and the debt securities the company acquires may default on interest and/or principal payments. accordingly, the company may not be able to realize gains or income from its assets. any gains that the company does realize may not be sufficient to offset any other losses it experiences. any income that the company realizes may not be sufficient to offset its expenses. the company may acquire alt-a and subprime mortgage loans and rmbs collateralized by alt-a and subprime mortgage loans, which are subject to increased risks. the company may acquire alt-a, subprime mortgage loans and rmbs backed by collateral pools of alt-a and subprime mortgage loans, which are mortgage loans that have been originated using underwriting standards that are less restrictive than those used in underwriting prime mortgage loans. these lower standards include mortgage loans made to borrowers having imperfect or impaired credit histories, mortgage loans where the amount of the loan at origination is 80% or more of the value of the mortgage property, mortgage loans made to borrowers with low credit scores, mortgage loans made to borrowers who have other debt that represents a large portion of their income and mortgage loans made to borrowers whose income is not required to be disclosed or verified. due to economic conditions, including increased interest rates and lower home prices, as well as aggressive lending practices, alt-a and subprime mortgage loans have in recent periods experienced increased rates of delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss, and they are likely to continue to experience delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss rates that are higher, and that may be substantially higher, than those experienced by mortgage loans underwritten in a more traditional manner. thus, because of the higher delinquency rates and losses associated with alt-a and subprime mortgage loans, the performance of rmbs backed by alt-a and subprime mortgage loans that the company may acquire could be correspondingly adversely affected, which could adversely impact its results of operations, financial condition and business. the company’s portfolio of assets may be concentrated and may be subject to risk of default. the company has initially focused its strategy on acquiring and managing a portfolio of agency rmbs and to a lesser extent non-agency rmbs. over time, the company may further diversify to cover a broader range of other residential mortgage assets, including single family residential whole mortgage loans, which the company expects to source through bulk acquisitions of pools of whole loans originated by third parties, and other residential mortgage assets, reaching a fully diversified portfolio over the course of 2012 and the first half of 2013. however, the company is not required to observe specific diversification criteria, except as may be set   23 table of contents forth in the investment guidelines adopted by its board of directors. therefore, the company’s portfolio of assets may at times be concentrated in certain property types that are subject to higher risk of foreclosure, or secured by properties concentrated in a limited number of geographic locations. to the extent that the company’s portfolio is concentrated in any one region or type of security, downturns relating generally to such region or type of security may result in defaults on a number of the company’s assets within a short time period, which may reduce the company’s net income and the value of its shares and accordingly reduce its ability to make distributions to the company’s stockholders. difficult conditions in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets have resulted in a significant contraction in liquidity for mortgages and mortgage-related assets, which may adversely affect the value of the assets in which the company intends to invest. the manager’s use of models in connection with the valuation of the company’s assets subjects it to potential risks in the event that such models are incorrect, misleading, or based on incomplete information. as part of the risk management process the manager uses detailed proprietary models to evaluate, depending on the asset class, house price appreciation and depreciation by region, prepayment speeds and foreclosure frequency, cost, and timing. models and data are used to value assets or potential assets and also in connection with hedging the company’s acquisitions. many of the models are based on historical trends. these trends may not be indicative of future results. furthermore, the assumptions underlying the models may prove to be inaccurate, causing the models to also be incorrect. in the event models and data prove to be incorrect, misleading or incomplete, any decisions made in reliance thereon expose the company to potential risks. for example, by relying on incorrect models and data, especially valuation models, the manager may be induced to buy certain assets at prices that are too high, to sell certain other assets at prices that are too low or to miss favorable opportunities altogether. similarly, any hedging based on faulty models and data may prove to be unsuccessful. the company may acquire non-agency rmbs assets in the “first loss” position, subjecting it to greater risk of losses. if the company acquires subordinate classes of non-agency rmbs, in the event of default and the exhaustion of any classes senior to those the company may acquire and there is any further loss, it will not be able to recover all of its investment in the securities the company purchases. the prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated securities, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments. a projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgages underlying rmbs to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. in such event, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect the company against loss of its principal on these securities. increases in interest rates could adversely affect the value of the company’s assets and cause its interest expense to increase, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the company’s profitability as well as the cash available for distribution to its stockholders. the company focuses primarily on investing in, financing and managing agency rmbs, non-agency rmbs, residential mortgage loans and other residential mortgage assets in the united states. in a normal yield curve environment, some of these types of assets will generally decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. declines in market value may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to the company, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to its stockholders. a significant risk associated with these assets is the risk that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. if long-term rates increased significantly, the market value of these assets could decline, and the duration and weighted-average life of the assets could increase. the company could realize a   24 table of contents loss if the securities were sold. at the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the repurchase agreements the company may enter into to finance the purchase of these securities. market values of the company’s assets may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases or expected increases in defaults, increases or expected increases in voluntary prepayments for those assets that are subject to prepayment risk or widening of credit spreads. in addition, in a period of rising interest rates, the company’s operating results will depend in large part on the difference between the income from its assets, net of credit losses, and financing costs. in most cases, the income from such assets will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of the company’s borrowings. consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may significantly influence the company’s net income. increases in these rates will tend to decrease the company’s net income and market value of its assets. interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect the value of the company’s assets, net income and common stock. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors beyond the company’s control. interest rate fluctuations present a variety of risks, including the risk of a narrowing of the difference between asset yields and borrowing rates, flattening or inversion of the yield curve and fluctuating prepayment rates, and may adversely affect the company’s income and the value of its common stock. furthermore, the stock market has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies in industries similar or related to the company’s and that have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performances. additionally, the company’s operating results and prospects may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or may be lower than those of companies with comparable market capitalizations, which could lead to a material decline in the market price of the company’s common stock. the company may experience a decline in the fair value of its assets. a decline in the fair market value of its assets may require the company to recognize an “other-than-temporary” impairment against such assets under gaap if the company were to determine that, with respect to any assets in unrealized loss positions, it does not have the ability and intent to hold such assets to maturity or for a period of time sufficient for a forecasted market price recovery up to or beyond the cost of such assets. if such a determination were to be made, the company would recognize unrealized losses through earnings and write down the amortized cost of such assets to a new cost basis, based on the fair value of such assets on the date they are considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired. such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition; subsequent disposition or sale of such assets could further affect the company’s future losses or gains, as they are based on the difference between the sale price received and adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale. some of the assets in the company’s portfolio are recorded at fair value and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of these assets. some of the assets in the company’s portfolio are securities that are not publicly traded. the fair value of securities and other assets that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. the company values these assets quarterly at fair value, as determined in accordance with gaap, which may include unobservable inputs. because such valuations are subjective, the fair value of certain of the company’s assets may fluctuate over short periods of time and its determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would   25 table of contents have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. the value of the company’s common stock could be adversely affected if its determinations regarding the fair value of these assets were materially higher than the values that the company ultimately realizes upon their disposal. additionally, the company’s results of operations for a given period could be adversely affected if its determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that the company ultimately realizes upon their disposal. the valuation process has been particularly challenging recently as market events have made valuations of certain assets more difficult, unpredictable and volatile. the failure of servicers to effectively service the mortgage loans underlying certain of the assets in the company’s portfolio would materially and adversely affect it. most residential mortgage loans and securitizations of residential mortgage loans require a servicer to manage collections on each of the underlying loans. both default frequency and default severity of loans may depend upon the quality of the servicer. if servicers are not vigilant in encouraging borrowers to make their monthly payments, the borrowers may be far less likely to make these payments, which could result in a higher frequency of default. if servicers take longer to liquidate non-performing assets, loss severities may tend to be higher than originally anticipated. the failure of servicers to effectively service the mortgage loans underlying certain assets in the company’s portfolio could negatively impact the value of its investments and its performance. servicer quality is of prime importance in the default performance of residential mortgage loans. many servicers have gone out of business in recent years, requiring a transfer of servicing to another servicer. this transfer takes time and loans may become delinquent because of confusion or lack of attention. in the case of pools of securitized loans, servicers may be required to advance interest on delinquent loans to the extent the servicer deems those advances recoverable. in the event the servicer does not advance, interest may be interrupted even on more senior securities. servicers may also advance more than is in fact recoverable once a defaulted loan is disposed, and the loss to the trust may be greater than the outstanding principal balance of that loan (greater than 100% loss severity). any credit ratings assigned to the company’s assets will be subject to ongoing evaluations and revisions and the company cannot assure investors that those ratings will not be downgraded. some of the company’s assets are rated by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. any credit ratings on the company’s assets are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and the company cannot assure investors that any such ratings will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. if rating agencies assign a lower-than-expected rating or reduce or withdraw, or indicate that they may reduce or withdraw, their ratings of the company’s assets in the future, the value of these assets could significantly decline, which would adversely affect the value of the company’s portfolio and could result in losses, its disposition, or the failure of borrowers to satisfy their debt service obligations to the company. a prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession or declining real estate values could impair the company’s assets and harm its operations. the company believes the risks associated with the company’s business will be more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession, especially if these periods are accomplished by declining real estate values. the company’s non-agency rmbs and residential mortgage loans will be particularly sensitive to these risks. declining real estate values will likely reduce the level of new mortgage loan originations since borrowers often use appreciation in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase of additional properties. borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on the company’s loans if the value of real estate weakens. further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that the company will incur losses on its loans in the event of default because the value of the company’s collateral may be insufficient to   26 table of contents cover its cost on the loan. any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both the company’s net interest income from loans in its portfolio as well as the manager’s ability to acquire, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly harm the company’s revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and its ability to make distributions to its stockholders. prepayment rates may adversely affect the value of the company’s portfolio of assets. the value of the company’s assets may be affected by prepayment rates on mortgage loans. if the company purchases assets at a premium to par value, when borrowers prepay their mortgage loans faster than expected, the corresponding prepayments on the mortgage-related securities may reduce the expected yield on such securities because the company will have to amortize the related premium on an accelerated basis. conversely, if the company purchases assets at a discount to par value, when borrowers prepay their mortgage loans slower than expected, the decrease in corresponding prepayments on the mortgage-related securities may reduce the expected yield on such securities because the company will not be able to accrete the related discount as quickly as originally anticipated. prepayment rates on loans may be affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, the availability of mortgage credit, the relative economic vitality of the area in which the related properties are located, the servicing of the mortgage loans, possible changes in tax laws, other opportunities for investment, homeowner mobility and other economic, social, geographic, demographic and legal factors and other factors beyond the company’s control. consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty and no strategy can completely insulate the company from prepayment or other such risks. in periods of declining interest rates, prepayment rates on mortgage loans generally increase. if general interest rates decline at the same time, the proceeds of such prepayments received during such periods are likely to be reinvested by the company in assets yielding less than the yields on the assets that were prepaid. in addition, the market value of the assets may, because of the risk of prepayment, benefit less than other fixed income securities from declining interest rates. recent market conditions may upset the historical relationship between interest rate changes and prepayment trends, which would make it more difficult for the company to analyze its portfolio of assets. the company’s success depends on its ability to analyze the relationship of changing interest rates on prepayments of the mortgage loans that underlie the company’s assets. changes in interest rates and prepayments affect the market price of the assets that the company intends to purchase and any asset that it holds at a given time. as part of the company’s overall portfolio risk management, it analyzes interest rate changes and prepayment trends separately and collectively to assess their effects on the company’s portfolio of assets. in conducting the company’s analysis, it depends on certain assumptions based upon historical trends with respect to the relationship between interest rates and prepayments under normal market conditions. if the recent dislocations in the residential mortgage market or other developments change the way that prepayment trends have historically responded to interest rate changes, the company’s ability to (i) assess the market value of its portfolio of assets, (ii) implement its hedging strategies and (iii) implement techniques to reduce its prepayment rate volatility would be significantly affected, which could materially adversely affect the company’s financial position and results of operations. the mortgage loans that the company acquires, and the mortgage and other loans underlying the rmbs, respectively, that it acquires, are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to the company. residential mortgage loans are secured by single-family residential property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure and risks of loss. the ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property typically is dependent upon the income or assets of the borrower. a number of factors, including a general economic downturn, acts of god, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances, may impair borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans. in addition, the company intends to acquire non-agency rmbs, which are backed by residential real property but, in contrast to agency rmbs, their principal and interest are not guaranteed by   27 table of contents federally chartered entities such as fannie mae and freddie mac and, in the case of ginnie mae, the u.s. government. the ability of a borrower to repay these loans or other financial assets is dependent upon the income or assets of these borrowers. in the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by the company, it will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s cash flow from operations. in the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process which could have a substantial negative effect on the company’s anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. the company is subject to counterparty risk and may be unable to seek indemnity or require its counterparties to repurchase mortgage loans if they breach representations and warranties, which could cause the company to suffer losses. when the company purchases loans, its counterparty typically makes customary representations and warranties about such loans to the company. the company’s residential mortgage loan purchase agreements may entitle it to seek indemnity or demand repurchase or substitution of the loans in the event its counterparty breaches a representation or warranty given to the company. however, there can be no assurance that the company’s mortgage loan purchase agreements will contain appropriate representations and warranties, that the company will be able to enforce its contractual right to repurchase or substitution, or that the company counterparty will remain solvent or otherwise be able to honor its obligations under its mortgage loan purchase agreements. the company’s inability to obtain indemnity or require repurchase of a significant number of loans could harm its business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and the company’s ability to make distributions to its stockholders. the company’s real estate assets are subject to risks particular to real property, which may reduce its return from an affected property or asset and reduce or eliminate the company’s ability to make distributions to stockholders. the company owns assets secured by real estate and may own real estate directly in the future, either through direct acquisitions or upon a default of mortgage loans. real estate investments are subject to various risks, including:     •   acts of god, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses;     •   acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on september 11, 2001;     •   adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions;     •   changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances;     •   costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions such as indoor mold; and     •   the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses. if any of these or similar events occurs, it may reduce the company’s return from an affected property or asset and reduce or eliminate the company’s ability to make distributions to its stockholders.   28 table of contents liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of properties that the company may acquire or the properties underlying its investments. under various u.s. federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. the presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner’s ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. to the extent that an owner of a property underlying one of the company’s debt investments becomes liable for removal costs, the ability of the owner to make payments to the company may be reduced, which in turn may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage asset held by the company and its ability to make distributions to its stockholders. in the course of the company’s business, it may take title to real estate, and, if it does take title, the company could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. the presence of hazardous substances, if any, on the company’s properties may adversely affect its ability to sell the affected properties and it may incur substantial remediation costs, thus harming the company’s financial condition. the discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to such properties could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition and its ability to make distributions to its stockholders. the lack of liquidity of the company’s assets may adversely affect its business, including its ability to value and sell its assets. the company may acquire assets or other instruments that are not liquid, including securities and other instruments that are not publicly traded. moreover, turbulent market conditions, such as those currently in effect, could significantly and negatively impact the liquidity of the company’s assets. it may be difficult or impossible to obtain third-party pricing on the assets the company purchases. illiquid assets typically experience greater price volatility, as a ready market does not exist, and can be more difficult to value. in addition, validating third-party pricing for illiquid assets may be more subjective than more liquid assets. the illiquidity of the company’s assets may make it difficult to sell such assets if the need or desire arises. in addition, if the company is required to liquidate all or a portion of its portfolio quickly, the company may realize significantly less than the value at which it had previously recorded its assets. to the extent that the company utilizes leverage to finance its purchase of assets that are or become liquid, the negative impact on the company related to trying to sell assets in a short period of time for cash could be greatly exacerbated. as a result, the company’s ability to vary its portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which could adversely affect the company’s results of operations and financial condition certain actions by the u.s. federal reserve could cause a flattening of the yield curve, which could materially adversely affect the company’s business. in september 2011, the u.s. federal reserve announced “operation twist,” which is a program through which it intends to purchase, by the end of june 2012, $400 billion of u.s. treasury securities with remaining maturities between six and 30 years and sell an equal amount of u.s. treasury securities with remaining maturities of three years or less. the effect of operation twist could be a flattening in the yield curve, which could result in increased prepayment rates due to lower long-term interest rates and a narrowing of the company’s net interest margin. see the risk factor titled “prepayment rates may adversely affect the value of the company’s portfolio of assets.” consequently, operation twist and any other future securities purchase programs by the u.s. federal reserve could materially adversely affect the company’s business.   29 table of contents the ongoing debt crisis in europe could have an adverse effect on the company’s business. during the past several years, several large european banks have experienced financial difficulty and have been either rescued by government assistance or by other large european banks. several european governments have coordinated plans to attempt to shore up their financial sectors through loans, credit guarantees, capital infusions, promises of continued liquidity funding and interest rate cuts. additionally, other governments of the world’s largest economic countries also implemented interest rate cuts. there is no assurance that these and other plans and programs will be successful in halting the global credit crisis or in preventing other banks from failing. if unsuccessful, this could materially adversely affect the company’s financing and operations as well as those of the entire mortgage sector in general. as the european credit crisis continues, with the problems in countries such as greece, italy, spain and portugal, there is a growing risk to the financial condition and stability of major european banks. some of these banks or their u.s. banking subsidiaries have provided repurchase agreement financing to the company. recently, many of the u.s. banking subsidiaries of these major european banks were placed on credit watch. if the european credit crisis continues to impact these major european banks, there is the possibility that it will also impact the operations of their u.s. banking subsidiaries. this could adversely affect the company’s financing and operations as well as those of the entire mortgage sector in general. risks related to the company’s common stock common stock and preferred stock eligible for future sale may have adverse effects on the company’s share price. subject to applicable law, the company’s board of directors has the power, without further stockholder approval, to authorize the company to issue additional authorized shares of common stock and preferred stock on the terms and for the consideration it deems appropriate. the company cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of the company’s common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of the company’s common stock. the market price of the company’s common stock may decline significantly when the restrictions on resale by certain of its stockholders lapse. sales of substantial amounts of common stock or the perception that such sales could occur may adversely affect the prevailing market price for the company’s common stock. if the company’s portfolio of assets generates insufficient income and cash flow, it could be required to sell assets, borrow funds, make a portion of the company’s distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution or distribution of debt securities to fund the company’s distributions. the company is generally required to distribute to its stockholders at least 90% of the company’s taxable income each year for it to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (“internal revenue code”), which requirement the company currently satisfies through quarterly distributions of all or substantially all of its reit taxable income in such year, subject to certain adjustments. the company’s ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by a number of factors. although the company makes quarterly distributions to its stockholders, the company’s board of directors has the sole discretion to determine the timing, form and amount of any distributions to its stockholders, and the amount of such distributions may be limited until the company has a portfolio of income-generating assets. if the company’s portfolio of assets generates insufficient income and cash flow, the company could be required to sell assets, borrow funds or make a portion of its distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution or distribution of debt securities. to the extent that the company is required to sell assets in adverse market conditions or borrow funds at unfavorable rates, the company’s results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the company’s board of directors will make determinations regarding distributions based upon various factors, including the company’s earnings, its financial condition, its liquidity, its debt and preferred stock covenants, maintenance of its reit qualification, applicable provisions of the maryland general corporation law (“mgcl”) and other factors as the company’s   30 table of contents board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. the company believes that a change in any one of the following factors could adversely affect the company’s results of operations and impair its ability to make distributions to its stockholders:     •   the company’s ability to make profitable investments;     •   margin calls or other expenses that reduce the company’s cash flow;     •   defaults in the company’s asset portfolio or decreases in the value of its portfolio; and     •   the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates. as a result, no assurance can be given that the company will be able to make distributions to its stockholders at any time in the future or that the level of any distributions the company does make to its stockholders will achieve a market yield or increase or even be maintained over time, any of which could materially and adversely affect the company. in addition, distributions that the company makes to its stockholders will generally be taxable to the company’s stockholders as ordinary income. however, a portion of the company’s distributions may be designated by it as long-term capital gains to the extent that they are attributable to capital gain income recognized by the company or may constitute a return of capital to the extent that they exceed its earnings and profits as determined for tax purposes. a return of capital is not taxable, but has the effect of reducing the basis of a stockholder’s investment in shares of the company’s common stock. future offerings of debt or equity securities, which may rank senior to the company’s common stock, may adversely affect the market price of its common stock. if the company decides to issue debt securities in the future, which would rank senior to its common stock, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting the company’s operating flexibility. additionally, any equity securities or convertible or exchangeable securities that the company issues in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of the company’s common stock and may result in dilution to owners of its common stock. the company and, indirectly, its stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. because the company’s decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond its control, the company cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of its future offerings. thus, holders of the company’s common stock will bear the risk of the company’s future offerings reducing the market price of its common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in the company. risks related to the company’s organization and structure certain provisions of maryland law could inhibit changes in control. certain provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire the company or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of the company’s common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of the company’s common stock. the company is subject to the “business combination” provisions of the mgcl that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between the company and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the company’s then outstanding voting stock or an affiliate or associate of the company’s who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the company’s then outstanding voting stock) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. after the five-year   31 table of contents prohibition, any business combination between the company and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the company’s board of directors and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (1) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of the company’s voting stock; and (2) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of the company’s voting stock other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. these super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the company’s common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. these provisions of the mgcl do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by a board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. pursuant to the statute, the company’s board of directors has by resolution exempted business combinations (1) between the company and any other person, provided that such business combination is first approved by the company’s board of directors (including a majority of the company’s directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person) and (2) between the company and apollo and its affiliates and associates and (3) persons acting in concert with any of the foregoing. as a result, any person described above may be able to enter into business combinations with the company that may not be in the best interests of the company’s stockholders, without compliance by the company with the supermajority vote requirements and other provisions of the statute. there can be no assurance that the company’s board of directors will not amend or revoke this exemption in the future. the “control share” provisions of the mgcl provide that a holder of “control shares” of a maryland corporation (defined as shares which, when aggregated with all other shares controlled by the stockholder (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding “control shares”) has no voting rights with respect to such shares except to the extent approved by the company’s stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes entitled to be cast by the acquiror of control shares, the company’s officers and personnel who are also directors. the company’s bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of the company’s stock. there can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. the “unsolicited takeover” provisions of the mgcl permit the company’s board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in the company’s charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which (for example, a classified board) the company does not yet have. the company’s charter contains a provision whereby it has elected to be subject to the provisions of title 3, subtitle 8 of the mgcl relating to the filling of vacancies on its board of directors, as a result of which, vacancies on the company’s board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. these provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for the company or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the company under the circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. the company’s authorized but unissued shares of common and preferred stock may prevent a change in its control. the company’s charter permits its board of directors to authorize the company to issue additional shares of its authorized but unissued common or preferred stock. in addition, the company’s board of directors may, without stockholder approval, amend the company’s charter to increase the aggregate number of its shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that the company has the authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the terms of the classified or reclassified shares. as a result, the company’s board of directors may establish a series of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for shares of the company’s common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of its stockholders.   32 table of contents the company’s rights and the rights of its stockholders to take action against its directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in the investors best interests. the company’s charter limits the liability of its present and former directors and officers to the company and the company’s stockholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under maryland law. under maryland law, the company’s present and former directors and officers do not have any liability to the company and its stockholders for money damages other than liability resulting from:     •   actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or     •   active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was established by a final judgment and was material to the cause of action adjudicated. the company’s charter authorizes the company to indemnify its directors and officers for actions taken by them in those and other capacities to the maximum extent permitted by maryland law. the company’s bylaws require it to indemnify each present and former director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to the company. the company has entered into indemnification agreements with each of its directors and officers pursuant to which the company may be obligated to pay or reimburse the defense costs incurred by the company’s present and former directors and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. the company’s charter contains provisions that make removal of its directors difficult, which could make it difficult for stockholders to effect changes to the company’s management. the company’s charter provides that, subject to the rights of any series of preferred stock, a director may be removed with or without cause upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. vacancies may be filled only by a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if less than a quorum. these requirements make it more difficult to change the company’s management by removing and replacing directors and may prevent a change in control of the company that is in the best interests of stockholders. ownership limitations may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities in which the company’s stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. in order for the company to qualify as a reit, no more than 50% in value of its outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year, and at least 100 persons must beneficially own the company’s stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate portion of a shorter taxable year. “individuals” for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. to preserve the company’s reit qualification, among other purposes, the company’s charter generally prohibits any person from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of the company’s capital stock or more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of the company’s common stock. this ownership limit could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of the company’s common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. the company’s board of directors has established exemptions from this ownership limit which permit apollo and certain of its affiliates to collectively hold up to 25% of the company’s common stock and certain private fund investors to collectively hold up to the greater of 1,540,500 shares of the company’s common stock or 15% of the company’s common stock.   33 table of contents risks related to the company’s taxation as a reit qualifying as a reit involves highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code, and the company’s failure to qualify as a reit or remain qualified as a reit would subject it to u.s. federal income tax and applicable state and local taxes, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the company’s stockholders. the company is organized and operates, and intends to continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that will allow it to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes commencing with the company’s taxable year ended december 31, 2011. the company has not requested and does not intend to request a ruling from the internal revenue service (the “irs”) that it qualifies as a reit. the u.s. federal income tax laws governing reits are complex, and judicial and administrative interpretations of the u.s. federal income tax laws governing reit qualification are limited. to qualify as a reit, the company must meet, on an ongoing basis, various tests regarding the nature and diversification of its assets and its income, the ownership of its outstanding shares, and the amount of its distributions. even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize the company’s reit qualification. the company’s ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon its analysis of the characterization and fair market values of its assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which the company will not obtain independent appraisals. the company’s compliance with the reit income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon the company’s ability to successfully manage the composition of its income and assets on an ongoing basis. moreover, new legislation, court decisions or administrative guidance, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for the company to qualify as a reit. in addition, the company’s ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a reit depends in part on the actions of third parties over which the company has no control or only limited influence, including in cases where the company owns an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for u.s. federal income tax purposes. thus, while the company currently operates so that it will qualify as a reit, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing reits, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of future changes in its circumstances, no assurance can be given that the company will so qualify for any particular year. if the company fails to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, and the company does not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, it would be required to pay u.s. federal income tax on its taxable income, and distributions to its stockholders would not be deductible by the company in determining its taxable income. in such a case, the company might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay its taxes. the company’s payment of income tax would decrease the amount of its income available for distribution to stockholders. furthermore, if the company fails to maintain its qualification as a reit, the company no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of its taxable income to stockholders. in addition, unless the company were eligible for certain statutory relief provisions, it could not re-elect to qualify as a reit for the subsequent four taxable years following the year in which it failed to qualify. complying with reit requirements may force the company to liquidate or forego otherwise attractive investments. to qualify as a reit, the company must ensure that it meets the reit gross income tests annually and that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of its assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities, shares in reits and other qualifying real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and certain kinds of mortgage-backed securities. the remainder of the company’s investments in securities (other than government securities and reit qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. in addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of the company’s assets (other than government securities and securities that are qualifying real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of the company’s total securities can be represented by securities of one or more trss. if the company fails to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, it must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief   34 table of contents provisions to avoid losing its reit qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. as a result, the company may be required to liquidate from its portfolio, or contribute to a trs, otherwise attractive investments, and may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to the company in order to satisfy the source of income or asset diversification requirements for qualifying as a reit. these actions could have the effect of reducing the company’s income and amounts available for distribution to its stockholders. reit distribution requirements could adversely the company’s ability to execute its business plan and may require the company to incur debt or sell assets to make such distributions. in order to qualify as a reit, the company must distribute to its stockholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of its reit taxable income including certain items of non-cash income), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. to the extent that the company satisfies the 90% distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income, the company will be subject to u.s. federal corporate income tax on its undistributed income. in addition, the company will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which its distributions in any calendar year are less than a minimum amount specified under u.s. federal income tax laws. the company distributes its net income to its stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the reit 90% distribution requirement and to avoid the 4% nondeductible excise tax. in addition, the company’s taxable income may substantially exceed its net income as determined by gaap or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. for example, the company may be required to accrue interest and discount income on mortgage loans, rmbs, and other types of debt securities or interests in debt securities before it receives any payments of interest or principal on such assets. the company may also acquire distressed debt instruments that are subsequently modified by agreement with the borrower. if the amendments to the outstanding debt are “significant modifications” under the applicable treasury regulations, the modified debt may be considered to have been reissued to the company at a gain in a debt-for-debt exchange with the borrower, with gain recognized by the company to the extent that the principal amount of the modified debt exceeds the company’s cost of purchasing it prior to modification. the company may be required under the terms of the indebtedness that it incurs, whether to private lenders or pursuant to government programs, to use cash received from interest payments to make principal payment on that indebtedness, with the effect that the company will recognize income but will not have a corresponding amount of cash available for distribution to its stockholders. as a result of the foregoing, the company may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year and find it difficult or impossible to meet the reit distribution requirements in certain circumstances. in such circumstances, the company may be required to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt or (iv) make a taxable distribution of the company’s shares as part of a distribution in which stockholders may elect to receive shares or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash, in order to comply with the reit distribution requirements and to avoid u.s. federal corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. thus, compliance with the reit distribution requirements may hinder the company’s ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of its common stock. even if the company qualifies as a reit, it may face tax liabilities that reduce its cash flow. even if the company qualifies for taxation as a reit, it may be subject to certain u.s. federal, state and local taxes on its income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, franchise, property and transfer taxes, including mortgage recording taxes. in addition, any trss the company owns will be subject to u.s. federal, state and local corporate taxes. in order to meet the reit qualification requirements, or to avoid the imposition   35 table of contents of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a reit from sales of inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, the company may hold some of its assets through trss. any taxes paid by such trss would decrease the cash available for distribution to the company’s stockholders. the failure of mortgage loans or rmbs subject to a repurchase agreement to qualify as a real estate asset of the company would adversely affect the company’s ability to qualify as a reit. when the company enters into repurchase agreements, it will nominally sell certain of its assets to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. the company believes that it will be treated for u.s. federal income tax purposes as the owner of the assets that are the subject of any such agreements notwithstanding that such agreements may transfer record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. it is possible, however, that the irs could assert that the company did not own the assets during the term of the repurchase agreement, in which case the company could fail to qualify as a reit. the company may be required to report taxable income for certain investments in excess of the economic income the company ultimately realizes from them. the company may acquire debt instruments in the secondary market for less than their face amount. the amount of such discount will generally be treated as “market discount” for u.s. federal income tax purposes. accrued market discount is reported as income when, and to the extent that, any payment of principal of the debt instrument is made, unless the company elects to include accrued market discount in income as it accrues. principal payments on certain loans are made monthly, and consequently accrued market discount may have to be included in income each month as if the debt instrument were assured of ultimately being collected in full. if the company collects less on the debt instrument than the company’s purchase price plus the market discount the company had previously reported as income, it may not be able to benefit from any offsetting loss deductions. similarly, some of the rmbs that the company acquires may have been issued with original issue discount. the company will be required to report such original issue discount based on a constant yield method and will be taxed based on the assumption that all future projected payments due on such rmbs will be made. if such rmbs turns out not to be fully collectible, an offsetting loss deduction will become available only in the later year that uncollectability is provable. finally, in the event that any debt instruments or rmbs acquired by the company are delinquent as to mandatory principal and interest payments, or in the event payments with respect to a particular debt instrument are not made when due, the company may nonetheless be required to continue to recognize the unpaid interest as taxable income as it accrues, despite doubt as to its ultimate collectability. similarly, the company may be required to accrue interest income with respect to subordinate mortgage-backed securities at its stated rate regardless of whether corresponding cash payments are received or are ultimately collectable. in each case, while the company would in general ultimately have an offsetting loss deduction available to the company when such interest was determined to be uncollectible, the utility of that deduction could depend on the company’s having taxable income in that later year or thereafter. the interest apportionment rules may affect the company’s ability to comply with the reit asset and gross income tests. the interest apportionment rules under treasury regulation section 1.856-5(c) provide that, if a mortgage is secured by both real property and other property, a reit is required to apportion its annual interest income to the real property security based on a fraction, the numerator of which is the value of the real property securing the loan, determined when the reit commits to acquire the loan, and the denominator of which is the highest “principal amount” of the loan during the year. irs revenue procedure 2011-16 interprets the “principal amount” of the loan to be the face amount of the loan, despite the internal revenue code requiring taxpayers to treat any market discount, that is the difference between the purchase price of the loan and its face amount, for all purposes (other than certain withholding and information reporting purposes) as interest rather than principal.   36 table of contents the interest apportionment regulations apply only if the mortgage loan in question is secured by both real property and other property. the company expects that all or most of the mortgage loans that it acquires will be secured only by real property and no other property value is taken into account in its underwriting process. accordingly, it is not contemplated that the company will invest in mortgage loans to which the interest apportionment rules described above would apply. nevertheless, if the irs were to assert successfully that the company’s mortgage loans were secured by property other than real estate, the interest apportionment rules applied for purposes of the company’s reit testing, and that the position taken in irs revenue procedure 2011-16 should be applied to certain mortgage loans in the company’s portfolio, then depending upon the value of the real property securing the company’s mortgage loans and their face amount, and the sources of its gross income generally, the company may fail to meet the 75% reit gross income test. if the company does not meet this test, it could potentially lose its reit qualification or be required to pay a penalty to the irs. in addition, the internal revenue code provides that a regular or a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit (a “remic”) is generally treated as a real estate asset for the purpose of the reit asset tests, and any amount includible in the company’s gross income with respect to such an interest is generally treated as interest on an obligation secured by a mortgage on real property for the purpose of the reit gross income tests. if, however, less than 95% of the assets of a remic in which the company holds an interest consist of real estate assets (determined as if the company held such assets), the company will be treated as holding its proportionate share of the assets of the remic for the purpose of the reit asset tests and receiving directly its proportionate share of the income of the remic for the purpose of determining the amount of income from the remic that is treated as interest on an obligation secured by a mortgage on real property. in connection with the recently expanded harp program, the irs recently issued guidance providing that, among other things, if a reit holds a regular interest in an “eligible remic,” or a residual interest in an “eligible remic” that informs the reit that at least 80% of the remic’s assets constitute real estate assets, then (i) the reit may treat 80% of the value of the interest in the remic as a real estate asset for the purpose of the reit asset tests and (ii) the reit may treat 80% of the gross income received with respect to the interest in the remic as interest on an obligation secured by a mortgage on real property for the purpose of the 75% reit gross income test. for this purpose, a remic is an “eligible remic” if (i) the remic has received a guarantee from fannie mae or freddie mac that will allow the remic to make any principal and interest payments on its regular and residual interests and (ii) all of the remic’s mortgages and pass-through certificates are secured by interests in single-family dwellings. if the company were to acquire an interest in an eligible remic less than 95% of the assets of which constitute real estate assets, the irs guidance described above may generally allow the company to treat 80% of its interest in such a remic as a qualifying asset for the purpose of the reit asset tests and 80% of the gross income derived from the interest as qualifying income for the purpose of the 75% reit gross income test. although the portion of the income from such a remic interest that does not qualify for the 75% reit gross income test would likely be qualifying income for the purpose of the 95% reit gross income test, the remaining 20% of the remic interest generally would not qualify as a real estate asset, which could adversely affect the company’s ability to satisfy the reit asset tests. accordingly, owning such a remic interest could adversely affect the company’s ability to qualify as a reit. the “taxable mortgage pool” rules may increase the taxes that the company or its stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which the company effects future securitizations. securitizations by the company or its subsidiaries could result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for u.s. federal income tax purposes. as a result, the company could have “excess inclusion income.” certain categories of stockholders, such as non-u.s. stockholders eligible for treaty or other benefits, stockholders with net operating losses, and certain tax-exempt stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income from the company that is attributable to any such excess inclusion income. in the case of a stockholder that is a reit, a regulated investment company (“ric”), common trust fund or other pass-through entity, the company’s allocable share of its excess inclusion income could be considered excess inclusion income of such entity. in addition, to the extent that the company’s common stock is owned by tax-exempt “disqualified organizations,” such as certain government-related entities   37 table of contents and charitable remainder trusts that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, the company may incur a corporate level tax on a portion of any excess inclusion income. because this tax generally would be imposed on the company, all of its stockholders, including stockholders that are not disqualified organizations, generally will bear a portion of the tax cost associated with the classification of the company or a portion of its assets as a taxable mortgage pool. a ric, or other pass-through entity owning the company’s common stock in record name will be subject to tax at the highest u.s. federal corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their owners that are disqualified organizations. moreover, the company could face limitations in selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. finally, if the company were to fail to qualify as a reit, any taxable mortgage pool securitizations would be treated as separate taxable corporations for u.s. federal income tax purposes that could not be included in any consolidated u.s. federal corporate income tax return. these limitations may prevent the company from using certain techniques to maximize its returns from securitization transactions. although the company’s use of trss may be able to partially mitigate the impact of meeting the requirements necessary to maintain the company’s qualification as a reit, the company’s ownership of and relationship with its trss is limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize the company’s reit qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. a reit may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more trss. subject to certain exceptions, a trs may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a reit. both the subsidiary and the reit must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a trs. a corporation of which a trs directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a trs. overall, no more than 25% of the value of a reit’s total assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more trss. in addition, the trs rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a trs to its parent reit to assure that the trs is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. the rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a trs and its parent reit that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. trss that the company may form will pay u.s. federal, state and local income or franchise tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to the company but will not be required to be distributed to the company, unless necessary to maintain the company’s reit qualification. while the company will be monitoring the aggregate value of the securities of the company’s trss and intends to conduct its affairs so that such securities will represent less than 25% of the value of the company’s total assets, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to comply with the trs limitation in all market conditions. dividends payable by reits generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations, which could adversely affect the value of the company’s shares. the maximum u.s. federal income tax rate for certain qualified dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 15% (through 2012). dividends payable by reits, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates and therefore may be subject to a 35% maximum u.s. federal income tax rate on ordinary income. although the reduced u.s. federal income tax rate applicable to dividend income from regular corporate dividends does not adversely affect the taxation of reits or dividends paid by reits, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in reits to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-reit corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of reits, including the company’s shares. complying with reit requirements may limit the company’s ability to hedge effectively. the reit provisions of the internal revenue code may limit the company’s ability to hedge its assets and operations. under these provisions, any income that the company generates from transactions intended to hedge   38 table of contents its interest rate exposure will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the reit 75% and 95% gross income tests if the instrument hedges interest rate risk on liabilities used to carry or acquire real estate assets, or certain other specified types of risk, and such instrument is properly identified under applicable treasury regulations. income from hedging transactions that do not meet these requirements will generally constitute nonqualifying income for purposes of both the reit 75% and 95% gross income tests. as a result of these rules, the company may have to limit its use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous or implement those hedges through a trs. this could increase the cost of the company’s hedging activities because the company’s trs would be subject to tax on gains or the limits on its use of hedging techniques could expose the company to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than the company would otherwise want to bear. in addition, losses in the company’s trs will generally not provide any tax benefit to the company, although such losses may be carried forward to offset future taxable income of the trs. the tax on prohibited transactions will limit the company’s ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans, that would be treated as sales for u.s. federal income tax purposes. a reit’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the company might be subject to this tax if it was to sell or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans as inventory for u.s. federal income tax purposes. therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, the company may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans, other than through a trs, and the company may be required to limit the structures it uses for its securitization transactions, even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial for the company. the company may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of shares of its common stock. at any time, the u.s. federal income tax laws or regulations governing reits or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be changed, possibly with retroactive effect. the company cannot predict if or when any new u.s. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing u.s. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective or whether any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. the company and its stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, u.s. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. liquidation of the company’s assets may jeopardize its reit qualification. to qualify as a reit, the company must comply with requirements regarding its assets and its sources of income. if the company is compelled to liquidate its assets to repay obligations to its lenders, the company may be unable to comply with these requirements, thereby jeopardizing its qualification as a reit, or it may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if the company sells assets that are treated as inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the company’s qualification as a reit and exemption from u.s. federal income tax with respect to certain assets may be dependent on the accuracy of legal opinions or advice rendered or given or statements by the issuers of assets that the company acquires, and the inaccuracy of any such opinions, advice or statements may adversely affect the company’s reit qualification and result in significant corporate-level tax. when purchasing securities, the company may rely on opinions or advice of counsel for the issuer of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether such securities represent debt or equity securities for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and also to what extent those securities constitute reit real estate assets for purposes of the reit asset tests and produce income which qualifies under   39 table of contents the 75% reit gross income test. in addition, when purchasing the equity tranche of a securitization, the company may rely on opinions or advice of counsel regarding the qualification of the securitization for exemption from u.s. corporate income tax and the qualification of interests in such securitization as debt for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the inaccuracy of any such opinions, advice or statements may adversely affect the company’s reit qualification and result in significant corporate-level tax. the company’s ability to invest in “to-be-announced” forward contracts could be limited by its reit qualification, and the company could fail to qualify as a reit as a result of these investments. the company may purchase forward-settling agency rmbs through “to-be-announced” forward contracts (“tbas”). pursuant to these tbas, the company will agree to purchase, for future delivery, agency rmbs with certain principal and interest terms and certain types of underlying collateral, but the particular agency rmbs to be delivered is not identified until shortly before the tba settlement date. as with any forward purchase contract, the value of the underlying agency rmbs may decrease between the contract date and the settlement date, which may result in the recognition of income or gains or loss. the law is unclear regarding whether tbas are qualifying assets for the 75% reit asset test. accordingly, the company’s ability to purchase agency rmbs through tbas or to dispose of tbas, through these transactions or otherwise, could be limited. the company does not expect tbas to comprise a significant portion of its assets and, therefore, does not expect tbas to adversely affect the company’s ability to meet the reit assets tests. no assurance can be given that the irs would treat tbas as qualifying assets. in the event that such assets are determined to be non-qualifying, the company could be subject to a penalty tax or it could fail to qualify as a reit if the value of the company’s tbas, together with its non-qualifying assets for the 75% asset test, exceeded 25% of the company’s total assets at the end of any calendar quarter or any income from the disposition of tbas exceeded 25% of its gross income for any taxable year.   item 1b. unresolved