item 1a. risk factors our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to stockholders and could cause the value of our common stock and preferred stock (collectively our “capital stock”), to decline. readers should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. based on the information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting us. however, the risks and uncertainties we face are not limited to those described below. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. risks related to our relationship with our manager we depend on our manager and certain key personnel of our manager for success and upon their access to apollo’s investment professionals and partners. we may not find a suitable replacement for our manager if the management agreement is terminated or if key personnel leave the employment of our manager or apollo or otherwise become unavailable to us. we do not have any employees and rely completely on our manager to provide us with investment and advisory services. we have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on our manager, which has significant discretion as to the implementation of our operating policies and strategies. we depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our manager. we benefit from the personnel, relationships and experience of our manager’s executive team and other personnel and investors of apollo. the executive officers and key personnel of our manager evaluate, negotiate, purchase and monitor investments; therefore, our success depends on their continued service. we also depend, to a significant extent, on our manager’s access to the investment professionals and partners of apollo and the industry insight and deal flow generated by the apollo investment professionals in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. the departure of any of the senior personnel of our manager, or of a significant number of the investment professionals or partners of apollo, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. in addition, we offer no assurance that our manager will remain the investment manager or that it will continue to have access to its or apollo’s executive officers and other investment professionals. the initial term of the management agreement with our manager only extends until july 27, 2014, the third anniversary of the closing of the ipo, with automatic one-year renewals thereafter. if the management agreement is terminated and no suitable replacement is found to manage us, we may not be able to execute our business plan. the ability of our manager and its officers and other personnel to engage in other business activities may reduce the time our manager spends managing our business and may result in certain conflicts of interest. certain of our officers and directors, and the officers and other personnel of our manager, also serve or may serve as officers, directors or partners of other apollo vehicles. further, the officers and other personnel of our manager may be called upon to provide managerial assistance to other apollo vehicles. these demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of our investment activity. in addition, another affiliate of apollo, through two separate accounts, sources and/or manages rmbs and other mortgage related assets. other than vantium (as later defined in this annual report on form 10-k) and these separate accounts, no other existing apollo vehicle currently focuses on our target asset classes as part of its core investment strategy and no other existing apollo vehicle currently holds significant investments in our target assets. it is possible that other apollo vehicles, as well as existing or future portfolio companies or funds or separate accounts managed by apollo, may from time to time, have the same target assets as ours as a part of their larger business strategies. to the extent such other apollo vehicle, or other vehicles that may be organized in the future, seek to acquire the same target assets as us, the scope of opportunities otherwise available to us may be adversely affected and/or reduced.   8 we do not have a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from engaging in business activities of the types conducted by us for their own account. we do not have a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from engaging in business activities of the types conducted by us for their own account. however, our code of business conduct and ethics contains a conflicts of interest policy that prohibits our directors and executive officers, as well as personnel of our manager, from engaging in any transaction that involves an actual conflict of interest, except under guidelines approved by our board of directors. directors, executive officers and personnel of our manager who are employees of apollo are also subject to apollo’s code of business conduct and ethics. in addition, the management agreement with our manager does not prevent our manager and its affiliates from engaging in additional management or investment opportunities, some of which could compete with us. the management agreement was negotiated between related parties and its terms, including fees payable to our manager, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. the management agreement was negotiated between related parties and its terms, including fees payable to our manager, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. in addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the management agreement because of the desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with our manager. the termination of the management agreement may be difficult and require payment of a substantial termination fee or other amounts, including in the case of termination for unsatisfactory performance, which may adversely affect our inclination to end the relationship with our manager. termination of the management agreement with our manager without cause is difficult and requires payment of a substantial termination fee or other amounts. the term “cause” is limited to specific circumstances laid out in the management agreement. termination for unsatisfactory financial performance does not constitute “cause” under the management agreement. the management agreement provides that, in the absence of cause, it may only be terminated at the expiration of the initial term or any renewal period, upon the vote of at least two-thirds of our independent directors based upon: (i) unsatisfactory performance by our manager that is materially detrimental to us or (ii) a determination that the management fees payable to our manager are not fair, subject to our manager’s right to prevent termination based on unfair fees by accepting a reduction of management fees agreed to by at least two-thirds of our independent directors. we must provide our manager with 180 days prior notice of any such termination. additionally, upon non-renewal or a termination by us without cause (or upon a termination by our manager due to our material breach), the management agreement provides that we will pay our manager a termination payment equal to three times the average annual management fees earned by our manager during the 24-month period prior to such termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter. these provisions increase the effective cost to us of electing not to renew or to terminate (or defaulting in our obligations under) the management agreement, thereby adversely affecting our inclination to end our relationship with our manager, even if we believe our manager’s performance is not satisfactory. our manager is contractually committed to serve us until july 27, 2014 with one-year automatic renewals thereafter, provided, however, that either we, under the certain limited circumstances described above, which would require the us pay the fee described above, or our manager may terminate the management agreement annually upon 180 days prior notice to our manager. if the management agreement is terminated and no suitable replacement is found to manage us, we may not be able to execute our business plan. our manager’s and apollo’s liability is limited under the management agreement and we have agreed to indemnify them against certain liabilities. as a result, we could experience poor performance or losses for which our manager would not be liable. pursuant to the management agreement, our manager will not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder and will not be responsible for any action of our board of directors in   9 following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. under the terms of the management agreement, our manager, its officers, members, managers, directors, personnel, any person controlling or controlled by our manager and any person providing services to our manager (including apollo) will not be liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our stockholders or partners or any subsidiary’s stockholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement, except by reason of acts constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of their duties under the management agreement. in addition, we have agreed to indemnify our manager, its officers, stockholders, members, managers, directors, personnel, any person controlling or controlled by our manager and any person providing services to our manager (including apollo) with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts of our manager not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of duties, performed in good faith in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement. our manager’s failure to make investments on favorable terms that satisfy our investment strategy and otherwise generate attractive risk-adjusted returns from our assets would materially and adversely affect us. our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on our ability to grow, which depends in turn on the management team of our manager and its ability to identify and make investments on favorable terms that meet our investment criteria, as well as on our access to financing on acceptable terms. our ability to grow is also dependent upon our manager’s ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage new personnel. we may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we do not own the apollo name, but we may use the name pursuant to a license agreement with apollo. use of the name by other parties or the termination of our license agreement may harm our business. we have entered into a license agreement with apollo, pursuant to which it has granted us a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name “apollo.” under this agreement, we have the right to use this name for so long as our manager serves as our manager pursuant to the management agreement. apollo retains the right to continue using the “apollo” name. we cannot preclude apollo from licensing or transferring the ownership of the “apollo” name to third parties, some of whom may compete with us. consequently, we would be unable to prevent any damage to goodwill that may occur as a result of the activities of apollo or others. furthermore, in the event that the license agreement is terminated, we will be required to change our name and cease using the name. any of these events could disrupt our recognition in the market place, damage any goodwill we may have generated and otherwise harm our business. the license agreement will terminate concurrently with the termination of the management agreement. the manner of determining the management fee may not provide sufficient incentive to our manager to maximize risk-adjusted returns from our assets in our investment portfolio since it is based on our stockholders’ equity (as defined in the management agreement) and not on other measures of performance. our manager is entitled to receive a management fee that is based on the amount of our stockholders’ equity (as defined in the management agreement) at the end of each quarter, regardless of our performance. our stockholders’ equity for the purposes of calculating the management fee is not the same as, and could be greater than, the amount of stockholders’ equity shown on our consolidated financial statements. the possibility exists that significant management fees could be payable to our manager for a given quarter despite the fact that we experienced a net loss during that quarter. our manager’s entitlement to such compensation (regardless of performance) may not provide sufficient incentive to our manager to devote its time and effort to source and maximize risk-adjusted returns from our assets on our investment portfolio, which could in turn adversely affect our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and the market price of our capital stock. furthermore, the compensation payable to our manager will increase as a result of future equity offerings, even if the offering is dilutive to existing stockholders.   10 our manager manages our portfolio pursuant to very broad investment guidelines and our board of directors does not approve each investment decision made by our manager, which may result in us making riskier investments. our manager is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines. while our directors periodically review our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio, they do not review all of our proposed investments. in addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by our manager. furthermore, our manager may use complex strategies and transactions entered into by our manager that may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our directors. our manager has great latitude within the broad investment guidelines in determining the types of assets that are proper investments for us, which could result in investment returns that are substantially below expectations or that result in losses, which would materially and adversely affect our business operations and results. decisions made and investments entered into by our manager may not fully reflect our best interests. there are various conflicts of interest in our relationship with apollo, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. we are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with apollo, including our manager. in the future, we may enter into additional transactions with apollo. in particular, we may invest in, or acquire, certain of our investments through other apollo vehicles, including joint ventures with affiliates of apollo, or purchase assets from, sell assets to or arrange financing from or provide financing to new affiliated potential pooled investment vehicles or managed accounts not yet established, whether managed or sponsored by apollo’s affiliates or our manager. any such transactions will require approval by a majority of our independent directors. in certain instances we may invest alongside other apollo vehicles in different parts of the capital structure of the same issuer. depending on the size and nature of such investment, such transactions may require approval by a majority of our independent directors. there can be no assurance that any procedural protections will be sufficient to assure that these transactions will be made on terms that will be at least as favorable to us as those that would have been obtained in an arm’s length transaction. our manager and apollo have agreed that, for so long as the management agreement is in effect and apollo controls our manager, neither they nor any entity controlled by apollo will sponsor or manage any u.s. publicly traded reit that invests primarily in our target assets. however, our manager, apollo and their respective affiliates has and may in the future sponsor or manage additional u.s. publicly traded reit that invests generally in real estate assets but not primarily in our target assets. a private equity fund managed by apollo has made an investment in and controls vantium capital markets, l.p. (or, vantium), an entity that invests in residential mortgages and other related assets. vantium is in the process of winding down its existing portfolio of mortgage assets and has ceased acquiring assets. in addition, another affiliate of apollo, through two separate accounts, sources and/or manages rmbs and other mortgage related assets. other than vantium and these separate accounts, no other existing apollo vehicle currently focuses on our target asset classes as part of its core investment strategy and no other existing apollo vehicle currently holds significant investments in our target assets. it is possible that in the future other apollo vehicles as well as existing or future portfolio companies or funds or separate accounts managed by apollo may from time to time have the same target assets as ours as a part of their larger business strategies. to the extent such other apollo vehicles, or other vehicles that may be organized in the future, seek to acquire the same target assets as us, the scope of opportunities otherwise available to us may be adversely affected and/or reduced. our manager and apollo have an investment allocation policy in place that is intended to ensure that every apollo vehicle, including us, is treated in a manner that, over time, is fair and equitable. according to this policy, investments may be allocated by taking into account factors, including but not limited to, available capital and net asset value of the investment vehicles, suitability of the investment, order size, investment objectives, permitted leverage and available financing, current income expectations, the size, liquidity and duration of the available investment, seniority and other capital structure considerations and the tax implications of an investment. in certain circumstances, the allocation policy provides for the allocation of investments pursuant to a pre-defined arrangement that is other than pro-rata. the investment allocation policy may be amended by our manager and apollo at any time without our consent.   11 in addition to the fees payable to our manager under the management agreement, our manager and its affiliates may benefit from other fees paid to it in respect of our investments. in addition, an affiliate of apollo may act as servicer for some of our mortgage loans or for any securitization vehicles we may establish. in any of these or other capacities, affiliates of apollo and/or our manager may receive market based fees for their roles, but only if approved by a majority of our independent directors. possession of material, non-public information could prevent us from undertaking advantageous transactions; apollo could decide to establish information barriers. apollo generally follows an open architecture approach to information sharing within the larger apollo organization and does not normally impose information barriers among apollo and certain of its affiliates. if our manager were to receive material non-public information about a particular real estate-related entity, or have an interest in investing in a particular mortgage-related asset, apollo or its affiliates may be prevented from investing in such asset. conversely, if apollo or its affiliates were to receive material non-public information about a particular mortgage-related asset, or have an interest in investing in a particular mortgage-related asset, we may be prevented from investing in such asset. this risk affects us more than it does investment vehicles that are not related to apollo, as apollo generally does not use information barriers that many firms implement to separate persons who make investment decisions from others who might possess material, non-public information that could influence such decisions. apollo’s approach to these barriers could prevent our manager’s investment professionals from undertaking advantageous investments or dispositions that would be permissible for them otherwise. in addition, apollo could in the future decide to establish information barriers, particularly as its business expands and diversifies. in such event, apollo’s ability to operate as an integrated platform will be restricted and our manager’s resources may be limited. investigations and reviews of apollo affiliates’ use of placement agents could harm our reputation, depress the market price of our capital stock or have other negative consequences. affiliates of our manager sometimes use placement agents to assist in marketing certain of the investment funds that they manage. various state attorneys general and federal and state agencies have initiated industry-wide investigations into the use of placement agents in connection with the solicitation of investments, particularly with respect to investments by public pension funds. certain affiliates of apollo have received subpoenas and other requests for information from various government regulatory agencies and investors in apollo’s funds, seeking information regarding the use of placement agents. apollo is cooperating with all such investigations and other reviews. any unanticipated developments from these or future investigations or changes in industry practice may adversely affect our business. even if these investigations or changes in industry practice do not directly or indirectly affect apollo’s or our respective businesses, adverse publicity could harm our reputation and may depress the market price of our capital stock or have other negative consequences. risks related to our company we have limited operating history and may not be able to operate our business successfully, find suitable investments, or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders. we commenced operations on july 27, 2011 and have limited operating history. we cannot assure our stockholders that we will be able to operate our business successfully. our ability to provide attractive risk-adjusted returns from our assets to our stockholders over the long term is dependent on our ability both to generate sufficient cash flow to pay an attractive dividend and to achieve capital appreciation, and we may not do either on an on-going basis. we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and to continue to make distributions to stockholders. the results of our operations and the implementation of our business plan depend on several factors, including the availability of opportunities for investment in our target assets, the level and volatility of interest rates, the availability of adequate equity capital as well as short and long-term financing, conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions.   12 difficult and volatile conditions in the mortgage and residential real estate markets, as well as the broader financial markets, may cause us to experience losses related to our asset portfolio and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in executing our business strategies amidst such conditions. our results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the market for mortgages and mortgage-related assets, including rmbs, as well as the residential real estate market, the financial markets and the economy in general. continuing concerns about the mortgage market and the real estate market, as well as inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, unemployment and the availability and cost of credit, have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and markets going forward. in particular, the u.s. residential mortgage market has been severely affected by changes in the lending landscape and has experienced defaults, credit losses and significant liquidity concerns, and there is no assurance that these conditions have stabilized or that they will not worsen. in addition, there is a correlation between home price declines (which began with the global financial crisis in 2007, and have continued in certain states since such time, and, in some cases, worsened) and mortgage loan delinquencies. further, there has been significant volatility in the price of with residential mortgage assets. all of these factors have impacted investor perception of the risk associated with residential mortgage assets and had an impact on the value of existing real property and mortgages and new demand for homes and mortgages, which has weighed, and may continue to weigh, heavily on real estate and mortgage prices and performance. further deterioration of the mortgage and residential real estate markets may affect our ability to identify target assets that will provide us with attractive return opportunities and may cause us to experience losses related to our assets. declines in the value of our portfolio, or perceived market uncertainty about the value of our assets, would likely make it difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. our profitability may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to obtain cost effective financing. an increase in the volatility and deterioration in the broader residential mortgage and rmbs markets as well as the broader financial markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of our assets, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. also, to the extent we invest in msrs, deterioration of the residential real estate markets could increase delinquencies and defaults on the mortgage loans underlying the msrs we acquire and increase the cost of servicing mortgage loans. such increases in servicing costs could adversely affect our results of operations as revenues derived from the msrs that would otherwise produce income may be diverted to pay servicers additional servicing fees or reimburse servicers for additional expenses from servicing. in addition, as default rates are a component of pricing msrs, the market value of our msrs may decrease, thereby decreasing the value we could obtain if we sold the msrs. we operate in a competitive market for investment opportunities and future competition may limit our ability to acquire desirable investments in our target assets and could also affect the pricing of these securities. a number of entities compete with us in acquiring assets and obtaining financing. in acquiring target assets, we compete with other reits, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, financial institutions, governmental bodies and other entities. in addition, other reits with similar asset acquisition objectives, including a number that have been recently formed and others that may be organized in the future, compete with us in acquiring assets and obtaining financing. these competitors may be significantly larger than us, may have access to greater capital and other resources or may have other advantages. in addition, some competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. current market conditions may attract more competitors, which may increase the competition for sources of financing. an increase in the competition for sources of funding could adversely affect the availability and cost of financing, and thereby adversely affect the market price of our capital stock. many of our competitors are not subject to the operating constraints associated with reit qualification or maintenance of our exclusion from registration as an investment company under the 1940 act. furthermore, competition for investments in our target assets may lead to the price of such assets increasing, which may further limit our ability to generate desired returns. we cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and   13 results of operations. also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will continue to be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. we may change our operational policies (including our investment guidelines, strategies and policies and the targeted assets in which we invest) with the approval of our board of directors but without stockholder consent or notice at any time, which may adversely affect the market value of our capital stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. our board of directors determines our operational policies and may amend or revise our policies (including our policies with respect to the targeted assets in which we invest, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends) or approve transactions that deviate from these policies at any time, without a vote of, or notice to, our stockholders. we may change our investment guidelines and our strategy at any time with the approval of our board of directors, but without the consent of, or notice to, our stockholders, which could result in us making investments that are different in type from, and possibly riskier than, the investments we currently invest in. we use leverage as part of our business strategy in order to increase potential returns to stockholders but we do not have a formal policy limiting the amount of debt we may incur. we use leverage as part of our business strategy in order to increase potential returns to stockholders but we do not have a formal policy limiting the amount of debt we may incur. the amount of leverage we deploy for particular investments in our target assets depends upon our manager’s assessment of a variety of factors, which include the availability of particular types of financing and our manager’s assessment of the credit, liquidity, price volatility and other risks of those assets and the creditworthiness of our financing counterparties. our charter and bylaws do not limit the amount of indebtedness we can incur. our ability to generate returns for our stockholders through our investment, finance and operating strategies is subject to then existing market conditions, and we may make significant changes to these strategies in response to changing market conditions. in the future, to the extent that market conditions change and we have sufficient capital to do so, we may change our investment guidelines in response to opportunities available in different interest rate, economic and credit environments. as a result, we cannot predict the percentage of our equity that will be invested in any of our target assets at any given time. we depend on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our capital stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. our business depends on the communications and information systems of apollo. any failure or interruption of apollo’s systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our capital stock and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. we cannot at the present time predict the unintended consequences and market distortions that may stem from far-ranging, governmental intervention in the economic and financial system or from regulatory reform of the oversight of the financial markets. the u.s. government, the u.s. federal reserve (or, the federal reserve), the u.s. treasury (or, the treasury), the sec and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are taking various actions in an effort to address the underlying causes of, and to contain the fallout from, the recent global financial crisis. this far-ranging government intervention in the economic and financial system may carry unintended consequences and cause market distortions. we are unable to predict at this time the extent and nature of any such unintended consequences and market distortions.   14 on july 21, 2010 president obama signed into law the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the “dodd-frank act”). the dodd-frank act may impact the residential mortgage loan securitization market in that it seeks to reform the asset-backed securitization market (including the rmbs market) by requiring the retention of a portion of the credit risk inherent in the pool of securitized assets and by imposing additional registration and disclosure requirements. some of the provisions of the dodd-frank act have become effective or been implemented, while others are in the process of being implemented or will become effective in the future. provisions of the dodd-frank act require significant revisions to the legal and regulatory framework that applies to the asset-backed securities markets and securitizations. certain of the new requirements may affect our ability to sell assets into securitizations. for example, in response to the requirements of the dodd-frank act, the sec proposed certain revisions to regulation ab, which provide a comprehensive regime for the registration, disclosure and reporting of asset-backed securities. the proposed revisions, which built on earlier revisions proposed by the sec, would affect both the existing regulation ab regime created specifically for public issuance, as well as asset-backed securities sold in most private offerings. the sec has not sought to finalize its proposed revisions to regulation ab, nor has the sec indicated what changes, if any, it will make to its proposed revisions prior to finalization. we cannot predict when, if at all, the final revisions to regulation ab will be effective, nor what the content of such final revisions will contain. similarly, we cannot predict how any final revisions will affect our ability to sell assets into securitizations. the dodd-frank act also creates a new regulator, the consumer financial protection bureau, which will now oversee many of the core laws that regulate the mortgage industry, including among others, the real estate settlement procedures act and the truth in lending act. we cannot predict what actions, if any, that the consumer financial protection bureau will take in the mortgage markets, nor what the impact of such actions will be on the mortgage markets or our results of operations, financial condition and business. in addition to the foregoing, the u.s. government, federal reserve, treasury and other governmental and regulatory bodies may enact additional legislation or regulatory action that could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategies. for example, recently, a number of local governmental authorities have announced that they are evaluating eminent domain as one of several potential alternatives to help resolve housing finance challenges. this type of legislation and action could have a severe negative impact on the mortgage markets and may introduce risks that are difficult, if not impossible, to quantify. there is no certainty as to whether any governmental actors and entities will take steps to acquire any mortgage loans under such programs, or ultimately pass other legislation that will affect the mortgage markets. however, such actions could have a dramatic impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and the cost of complying with any additional laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. mortgage loan modification and refinancing programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and our returns on, our other target assets. the u.s. government, through the federal reserve, the federal housing administration (or, fha), and the federal deposit insurance corporation, has implemented a number of federal programs designed to assist homeowners, including the home affordable modification program (which provides homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures), the hope for homeowners program (which allows certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into fha-insured loans in order to avoid residential mortgage loan foreclosures) and the home affordable refinance program (which allows borrowers who are current on their mortgage payments to refinance and reduce their monthly mortgage payments without new mortgage insurance, up to an unlimited loan-to-value ratio for fixed rate mortgages). a number of these homeowners assistance programs have been enhanced or expanded. in addition, current administration officials and certain members of the u.s. congress have indicated support for additional legislative relief for homeowners, including an amendment of the bankruptcy laws to permit the modification of mortgage loans in   15 bankruptcy proceedings. loan modifications are more likely to be used when borrowers are less able to refinance or sell their homes due to market conditions and when the potential recovery from a foreclosure is reduced due to lower property values. a significant number of loan modifications could result in a significant reduction in cash flows to the holders of the mortgage securities on an ongoing basis. amendments to the bankruptcy laws that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the assets that we intend to acquire and the assets we currently hold. we may be unable to operate within the parameters that allow us to be excluded from regulation as a commodity pool operator, which would subject us to additional regulation and compliance requirements, and could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. recently adopted rules under the dodd-frank act establish a comprehensive new regulatory framework for derivative contracts commonly referred to as “swaps.” under the dodd-frank act, any investment fund that trades in swaps may be considered a “commodity pool,” which would cause its operators to be regulated as a “commodity pool operator” (or, cpo). in december 2012, the commodity futures trading commission issued a no-action letter giving relief to operators of mortgage reits from the requirements applicable to cpos. in order to qualify, we must, among other non-operation requirements: (1) limit our initial margin and premiums for commodity interests (swaps and exchange-traded derivatives) to no more than 5% of the fair market value of our total assets; and (2) limit our net income from commodity interests that are not “qualifying hedging transactions” to less than 5% of our gross income. the need to operate within these parameters could limit the use of swaps by us below the level that our manager would otherwise consider optimal or may lead to the registration of our manager or directors as commodity pool operators, which will subject us to additional regulatory oversight, compliance and costs. the diminished level of agency participation in, and other changes in the role of the agencies in, the mortgage market may adversely affect our business. if agency participation in the mortgage market were reduced or eliminated, or their structures were to change, our ability to acquire agency rmbs could be adversely affected. these developments could also materially and adversely impact our then existing agency rmbs portfolio. we could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold for the agencies. if fannie mae or freddie mac were eliminated, or their structures were to change radically (e.g., limitation or removal of the guarantee obligation), or their market share reduced because of required price increases or lower limits on the loans they can guarantee, we could be unable to acquire additional agency rmbs and our then existing agency rmbs could be materially and adversely impacted. a reduction in the supply of agency rmbs could also negatively affect the pricing of our existing agency rmbs. we rely on our agency rmbs (as well as non-agency rmbs) as collateral for our financings under our repurchase agreement borrowings. any decline in their value, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on our agency rmbs on acceptable terms or at all, or to maintain our compliance with the terms of any financing transactions. further, the current support provided by the u.s. treasury to fannie mae and freddie mac, and any additional support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rates we expect to receive from agency rmbs, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our agency rmbs and the cost of financing those assets, and may increase the prices of agency rmbs, thereby lowering the yields we would expect to receive on agency rmbs that we purchase. future legislation affecting the agencies may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of the agencies and the securities issued by them. as a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on our investments in agency rmbs. it also is possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and the spreads at which they trade. all of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.   16 past and potential future credit rating downgrades of the u.s. and certain european countries and the failure to resolve issues related to the “fiscal cliff” and the u.s. debt ceiling may materially adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. recent u.s. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns and the possibility that u.s. lawmakers may be unable to avoid the “fiscal cliff,” together with signs of deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in europe, have increased the possibility of additional credit-rating downgrades and economic slowdowns, or a recession in the u.s. although u.s. lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling in 2011, standard & poor’s ratings services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the u.s. from “aaa” to “aa+” in august 2011. the impact of any further downgrades to the u.s. government’s sovereign credit rating or its perceived creditworthiness could adversely affect the u.s. and global financial markets and economic conditions. in addition, certain economists predict that the u.s. could fall into an economic recession if the u.s. government fails to achieve a plan to avoid the “fiscal cliff,” which generally refers to certain tax increases and automatic spending cuts that were scheduled to become effective at the end of 2012. the u.s. government adopted legislation in december 2012 to address the planned tax increases, but deferred many of the automatic spending cuts for two months. in january 2013 the u.s. government adopted legislation to suspend the debt ceiling for three months. further, certain nationally recognized credit rating agencies have each warned that they may downgrade the u.s. government’s rating if the federal debt is not stabilized. if the u.s.’s credit rating were downgraded it would likely impact the credit risk associated with agency rmbs in our portfolio. a downgrade of the u.s. government’s credit rating or a default by the u.s. government to satisfy its debt obligations would likely create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which would weigh heavily on the global banking system. absent further quantitative easing by the federal reserve, these developments, along with the european sovereign debt crisis, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise and a reduction in the availability of credit, which may negatively impact the value of the assets in our portfolio, our net income, liquidity and our ability to finance our assets on favorable terms. loss of our exclusion from registration under the 1940 act would adversely affect us, the market price of shares of our capital stock and our ability to distribute dividends, and could result in the termination of the management agreement with our manager. section 3(a)(1)(c) of the 1940 act defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities, and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of such issuer’s total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis (the “40% test”) we are organized as a holding company and conduct our businesses primarily through arm operating, llc. both apollo residential mortgage, inc. and arm operating, llc conduct operations so that they comply with the 40% test. in addition, certain of our subsidiaries rely upon the exclusion from registration as an investment company under the 1940 act pursuant to section 3(c)(5)(c) of the 1940 act, which is available for entities “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” this exclusion generally means that at least 55% of each such subsidiary’s total assets must be comprised of qualifying assets and at least another 25% of our total assets must be comprised of qualifying assets and real estate-related assets under the 1940 act. we take the position that qualifying assets for this purpose include mortgage loans where 100% of the loan is secured by real estate when we acquire it and we have the unilateral right to foreclose on the loan and other assets, such as the entire ownership in whole-pool agency and non-agency rmbs, that the sec staff in various no-action letters or other pronouncements has determined are the functional equivalent of whole mortgage loans for purposes of the 1940 act. while the sec staff has issued a no-action letter that permits the treatment of such interests in agency whole-pool rmbs as qualifying assets, no such sec staff guidance is available with respect to non-agency whole-pool rmbs. accordingly, we rely on our own judgment and analysis in treating non-agency whole-pool rmbs as qualifying assets by analogy to agency whole-pool rmbs. we expect each of our subsidiaries relying on section 3(c)(5)(c) to rely on guidance published by the sec staff or on our analyses of guidance published with respect to other types of assets to determine which assets are qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets.   17 in 2011, the sec solicited public comment on a wide range of issues relating to section 3(c)(5)(c) of the 1940 act, including the nature of the assets that qualify for purposes of this exclusion. there can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the 1940 act status of companies relying on section 3(c)(5)(c) of the 1940 act, including the sec or its staff providing more specific or different guidance regarding this exclusion, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. to the extent that the sec staff provides more specific guidance regarding any of the matters bearing upon such exclusion, we may be required to adjust our strategy accordingly. any additional guidance from the sec staff could further inhibit our ability to pursue our strategies. if the sec or its staff takes a position contrary to our analysis with respect to the characterization of our target assets, we may be deemed an unregistered investment company. in which case, in order not to be required to register as an investment company, we may need to dispose of a significant portion of our assets or acquire significant other additional assets, which may have lower returns than our expected portfolio, or we may need to modify our business plan to register as an investment company, which would result in significantly increased operating expenses and would likely entail significantly reducing our indebtedness, which could also require us to sell a significant portion of our assets. we cannot assure investors that we would be able to complete these dispositions or acquisitions of assets, or deleveraging, on favorable terms, or at all. consequently, any modification of our business plan could have a material adverse effect on us. further, if the sec determined that we were an unregistered investment company, we would be subject to monetary penalties and injunctive relief in an action brought by the sec, we would potentially be unable to enforce contracts with third parties and third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions undertaken during the period for which it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. any of these results would have a material adverse effect on us. to the extent that the sec staff provides more specific guidance regarding any of the matters bearing upon such exclusions, we may be required to adjust our strategy accordingly. rapid changes in the values of our target assets may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a reit or our exclusion from registration under the 1940 act. if the market value or income potential of our target assets declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates, general market conditions, government actions or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate assets and income or liquidate our non-qualifying assets to maintain our reit qualification or our exclusion from registration as an investment company under the 1940 act. if the decline in real estate asset values or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. this difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of any non-real estate assets we may own. we may have to make decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the reit and 1940 act considerations. risks related to our financing we use leverage in executing our business strategy, which may adversely affect the return on our assets and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders, as well as increase losses when economic conditions are unfavorable. through december 31, 2012, we financed our agency and non-agency rmbs with repurchase agreements. over time, as market conditions change, in addition to these financings, we may use other forms of leverage. weakness in the financial markets, the residential mortgage markets and the economy in general could adversely affect one or more of our lenders and could cause one or more of our lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing or to increase the costs of our financing. the return on our assets and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that market conditions prevent us from leveraging our assets or increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from our investments. our financing costs will reduce cash available for distributions to stockholders. we may not be able to meet our financing obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to liquidation or sale to satisfy the obligations.   18 we depend on repurchase agreements, and may in the future depend on the availability of securitizations, resecuritizations, warehouse facilities and bank credit facilities (including term loans and revolving facilities) to execute our business plan. our inability to access such funding could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. we rely on short-term financing and thus are especially exposed to changes in the availability and cost of financing. our ability to fund our asset acquisitions may be impacted by our ability to secure financing on acceptable terms. we rely on short-term financing and thus are especially exposed to changes in the availability and cost of financing. for example, the term of a repurchase transaction under our repurchase agreements is typically one to three months; although in some cases the term may be shorter or longer. it is possible that the lenders that provide our financing could experience changes in their ability to advance funds to us, independent of our performance or the performance of our investment portfolio. furthermore, if many of our potential lenders are unwilling or unable to provide us with financing, we could be forced to sell our assets at an inopportune time when prices are depressed. further, if we default on our financial covenants with a lender or are otherwise unable to access funds under any of these facilities, we may have to curtail our asset acquisition activities and/or dispose of assets under adverse market conditions. in addition, if the regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders change, they may be required to significantly increase the cost of the financing that they provide to us. our lenders also may revise their eligibility requirements for the types of assets they are willing to finance or the terms of such financings, based on, among other factors, the regulatory environment and their management of perceived risk, particularly with respect to assignee liability. the recent dislocations in the residential mortgage sector have caused many lenders to tighten their lending standards, reduce their lending capacity or exit the market altogether. in addition, certain lenders have been impacted by the european sovereign debt crisis. further contraction among lenders, insolvency of lenders or other general market disruptions could adversely affect one or more of our existing or potential lenders and could cause one or more of our lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing on attractive terms or at all. this could increase our financing costs and reduce our access to liquidity. an increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our leveraged assets may adversely affect our profitability and our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. borrowing rates are currently at low levels that may not be sustained in the future. as our repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowings mature, we are required either to enter into new borrowings or to sell certain of our assets. an increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to enter into new borrowings would reduce the spread between the returns on our assets and the cost of our borrowings. this could adversely affect our earnings and, in turn, cash available for financing and investing purposes and for distributions to our stockholders. interest rate fluctuations could reduce the income on our investments and increase our financing costs. changes in interest rates will affect our operating results as such changes will affect the interest we receive on our floating rate interest bearing investments, the financing cost of our borrowings and the amount of interest we pay/receive on our swaps, which we utilize for hedging purposes. changes in interest rates may also affect borrower default rates, which may result in losses for us. see “risks related to our assets” below. interest rate caps on certain of the mortgages collateralizing certain of our rmbs may adversely affect our profitability on such investments. the coupon rate of interest earned on rmbs collateralized by arms adjust over time as interest rates change (typically after an initial fixed-rate period for hybrids). however, the level of adjustment to the interest rates earned on our rmbs collateralized by arms is typically limited by contract (or in certain cases by state or federal law). interim and lifetime interest rate caps on the mortgages collateralizing our arms limit the amount   19 by which the interest rates on such mortgages can adjust. interim interest rate caps limit the amount interest rates on a particular arm can adjust during the next adjustment period. lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount interest rates can adjust upward from inception through maturity of a particular arm. our repurchase transactions are not subject to similar restrictions, as the financial markets primarily determine the interest rates that we pay on borrowings under repurchase agreements used to finance our rmbs. accordingly, in a sustained period of rising interest rates or a period in which interest rates rise rapidly, the interest income we earn on rmbs collateralized by arms could be less than the interest expense incurred to finance such assets. if a counterparty to our repurchase transactions defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement, we could incur losses. when we engage in repurchase transactions, we generally transfer securities to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) and receive cash from such lenders. because the cash we receive from the lender when we initially transfer the securities to the lender is less than the value of those securities (this difference is referred to as the “haircut”), if the lender defaults on its obligation to transfer the same securities back to us, we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities). see “counterparty risk,” included under item 7a, “quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk” of this annual report on form 10-k, for further discussion regarding risks related to exposure to financial institution counterparties by country. our exposure to defaults by counterparties may be more pronounced during periods of significant volatility in the market conditions for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets. in addition, generally, if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction with a particular lender, that lender can elect to terminate the transaction and cease entering into additional repurchase transactions with us. in addition, some of our repurchase agreements contain cross-default provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other repurchase agreements could also declare a default. any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could materially adversely affect our earnings and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. our rights under our repurchase agreements may be subject to the effects of the bankruptcy laws in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of us or our lenders under the repurchase agreements, which may allow our lenders to repudiate our repurchase agreements. in the event of our insolvency or bankruptcy, certain repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the u.s. bankruptcy code, the effect of which, among other things, would be to allow the lender under the applicable repurchase agreement to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the u.s. bankruptcy code and to foreclose on the pledged collateral without delay. in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a lender during the term of a repurchase agreement, the lender may be permitted, under applicable insolvency laws, to repudiate the contract, and our claim against the lender for damages may be treated simply as that of an unsecured creditor. in addition, if the lender is a broker or dealer subject to the securities investor protection act of 1970, or an insured depository institution subject to the federal deposit insurance act, our ability to exercise our rights to recover our securities under a repurchase agreement or to be compensated for any damages resulting from the lender’s insolvency may be further limited by those statutes. these claims would be subject to significant delay and, if and when received, may be substantially less than the damages we actually incur. the repurchase agreements that we use to finance our asset acquisitions may require us to provide additional collateral and may restrict us from leveraging our assets as fully as desired. we use repurchase agreements and may in the future use other sources of financing, including securitizations, resecuritizations, warehouse facilities and bank credit facilities to finance our asset acquisitions. our repurchase agreements are uncommitted and the counterparty may refuse to advance funds under the agreements to us. if the market value of the mortgage loans or securities pledged or sold by us to a funding source decline in value, the lending institution may have the right to initiate a margin call in its sole discretion,   20 which would require us to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced, but we may not have the funds available to do so. posting additional collateral will reduce our liquidity and may reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and limit our ability to leverage our assets, which could adversely affect our business and could cause the value of our capital stock to decline. we may be forced to sell assets at significantly depressed prices to meet margin calls, post additional collateral and to maintain adequate liquidity, which could cause us to incur losses. moreover, to the extent we are forced to sell assets at such time, given market conditions, we may be selling at the same time as others facing similar pressures, which could exacerbate a difficult market environment and which could result in us incurring significantly greater losses on our sale of such assets. in an extreme case of market duress, a market may not even be present for certain of our assets at any price. in the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet margin calls and post additional collateral, lending institutions can accelerate repayment of our indebtedness, increase our borrowing rates, liquidate our collateral or terminate our ability to borrow. such a situation would likely result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and possibly necessitate a filing for protection under the u.s. bankruptcy code. in the event of our bankruptcy, our borrowings may qualify for special treatment under the u.s. bankruptcy code. this special treatment would allow the lenders under these agreements to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the u.s. bankruptcy code and to liquidate the collateral under these agreements without delay. further, financial institutions may require us to maintain a certain amount of cash that is not invested or to set aside non-levered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position which would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. as a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on equity. if we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, then, as described above, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. certain of our financing facilities contain covenants that restrict our operations and may inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase revenues. certain of our financing facilities contain restrictions, covenants, and representations and warranties that, among other things, may require us to satisfy specified financial, asset quality, loan eligibility and loan performance tests. if we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants or representations and warranties, we would be in default under these agreements and our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their respective interests against collateral pledged under such agreements and restrict our ability to make additional borrowings. certain of our financing agreements may also contain cross-default or other similar provisions. under our financing agreements with such provisions, the lender could declare a default (or in certain cases, accelerate our debt obligations rather than declare a default) if a default (or other similar event) were to occur under our other financing or similar arrangements (whether with that lender, the affiliates of that lender or a third party lender) after the expiration of any cure periods under such other arrangements. the specific nature of these cross-defaults (or similar provisions) varies among our various financing agreements that contain such provisions. the covenants and restrictions in our current and future financing facilities may restrict our ability to, among other things:     •   incur or guarantee additional debt;     •   make certain investments or acquisitions;     •   make distributions on or repurchase or redeem our capital stock;     •   engage in mergers or consolidations;     •   reduce liquidity below certain levels,     •   grant liens or incur operating losses for more than a specified period; and     •   enter into transactions with affiliates.   21 these restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing, make distributions, including the distributions needed to maintain our qualification as a reit, or to engage in other business activities, which may significantly limit or harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. a default and resulting repayment acceleration could significantly reduce our liquidity, which could require us to sell our assets to repay amounts due and outstanding. this could also significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions, which could cause the value of our capital stock to decline. a default will also significantly limit our financing alternatives such that we will be unable to pursue our strategy, which could curtail the returns on our assets. if we acquire and subsequently re-sell any mortgage loans, we may be required to repurchase such loans or indemnify investors if we breach representations and warranties. if we acquire and subsequently re-sell any mortgage loans, we would generally be required to make customary representations and warranties about such loans to the loan purchaser. residential mortgage loan sale agreements and the terms of any securitizations into which we may sell loans will generally require us to repurchase or substitute loans in the event we breach a representation or warranty given to the loan purchaser. in addition, we may be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default on a mortgage loan. the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans are generally broader than those available to us against an originating broker or correspondent. repurchased loans are typically worth only a fraction of the original price. significant repurchase activity could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. see “2013 market and business update,” included under item 7 “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations,” of this annual report on form 10-k. securitizations expose us to additional risks. based on our manager’s assessment of market conditions, we may acquire residential mortgage loans with the intention of securitizing them and retaining all or a part of the securitized assets in our portfolio. to the extent that we securitize residential mortgage loans, we will often hold the most junior certificates associated with a securitization. as a holder of the most junior certificates, we are more exposed to losses on the portfolio investments because the equity interest we retain in the issuing entity would be subordinate to the more senior notes typically issued to investors and we would, therefore, absorb all of the losses sustained with respect to a securitized pool of assets before the owners of the more senior notes experience any losses. moreover, we believe that the return of an active private rmbs market is going to take some time to develop as rating agencies recalibrate risk metrics and sort through the evolving regulatory landscape for the private rmbs market, and we cannot be assured that we will be able to access the securitization market in the future, or be able to do so at favorable rates. the inability to securitize our assets could hurt our performance and our ability to grow our business. see “2013 market and business update,” included under item 7 “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations,” of this annual report on form 10-k. risks related to our hedging we may enter into hedging transactions that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. subject to maintaining our qualification as a reit, part of our strategy involves entering into hedging transactions that could require us to fund cash payments in certain circumstances (e.g., the early termination of the hedging instrument caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the hedging instrument). the amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. such losses would be reflected in our results of operations as realized losses. our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time. the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition.   22 hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. our hedging activity varies in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held and other changing market conditions. our hedging transactions, which are intended to limit losses, may actually adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. in addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any u.s. or foreign governmental authorities. consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying hedging transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory, commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. the business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in its default. default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our commitments, if any, at the then current market price. although we generally seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. we cannot assure stockholders that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. our operating results may suffer because losses on the derivatives may not be offset by a change in the fair value of the related hedged transaction. in order to mitigate interest rate risk resulting from our floating-rate borrowings we enter into interest rate derivatives, currently comprised of swaps and swaptions. our interest rate derivatives are intended to hedge the floating-rate borrowings through the expected maturity of the underlying collateral. we chose not to pursue hedge accounting for these derivative instruments for generally accepted in the u.s. (or, gaap) purposes, and therefore record the change in estimated fair value of such instruments in earnings. as a result, changes in the fair value of such instruments may result in us reporting losses on such instruments on our statement of operations. to the extent that we invest in msrs and excess msrs in the future, the value of such msrs and excess msrs may be reduced substantially by changes in interest rates unless we are able to hedge against that uncertainty. changes in interest rates are a key driver of the performance of msrs and excess msrs since the values of such assets are highly sensitive to changes in interest rates. historically, the value of msrs and excess msrs has generally increased when interest rates rise and generally decreased when interest rates decline due to the effect those changes in interest rates have on prepayment estimates. we may pursue various hedging strategies to seek to reduce our exposure to adverse changes in interest rates. our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held and other changing market conditions. interest rate hedging may fail to protect us and/or could adversely affect us. to the extent we do not utilize derivatives to hedge against changes in fair value of the msrs or excess msrs that we may acquire, our balance sheet, financial condition and results of operations would be susceptible to volatility due to changes in the fair value of, or cash flows from, msrs and excess msrs as interest rates change. risks related to our assets we may not realize gains or earn income from our assets, which could cause the value of our capital stock to decline. we seek to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns from our assets to our stockholders over the long term, primarily through dividend distributions and secondarily through capital appreciation. however, the assets we   23 acquire may not appreciate in value and may in fact decline in value, and the debt securities we acquire may default on interest and/or principal payments. accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains or income from our assets. any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. any income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our expenses. we may acquire alt-a and subprime mortgage loans and rmbs collateralized by alt-a and subprime mortgage loans, which are subject to increased risks. we may acquire alt-a, subprime mortgage loans and rmbs backed by collateral pools of alt-a and subprime mortgage loans, which are mortgage loans that have been originated using underwriting standards that are less restrictive than those used in underwriting prime mortgage loans. these lower standards include mortgage loans made to borrowers having imperfect or impaired credit histories, mortgage loans where the amount of the loan at origination is 80% or more of the value of the mortgage property, mortgage loans made to borrowers with low credit scores, mortgage loans made to borrowers who have other debt that represents a large portion of their income and mortgage loans made to borrowers whose income is not required to be disclosed or verified. due to economic conditions, including increased interest rates and lower home prices, as well as aggressive lending practices, alt-a and subprime mortgage loans have in recent periods experienced increased rates of delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss, and they are likely to continue to experience delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss rates that are higher, and that may be substantially higher, than those experienced by mortgage loans underwritten in a more traditional manner. thus, because of the higher delinquency rates and losses associated with alt-a and subprime mortgage loans, the performance of rmbs backed by alt-a and subprime mortgage loans that we may acquire could be correspondingly adversely affected, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. our portfolio of assets may be concentrated and may be subject to risk of default. we have initially focused our strategy on acquiring and managing a portfolio of agency rmbs and non-agency rmbs. over time, we may further diversify to cover a broader range of other residential mortgage and mortgage related assets, including, but not limited to, residential mortgage loans, which we expect to source through bulk acquisitions of pools of whole loans originated by third parties, msrs and excess msrs. however, we are not required to observe specific diversification criteria, except as may be set forth in the investment guidelines adopted by our board of directors. therefore, our portfolio of assets may at times be concentrated in certain property types that are subject to higher risk of foreclosure, or secured by properties concentrated in a limited number of geographic locations. to the extent that our portfolio is concentrated in any one region or type of security, downturns relating generally to such region or type of security may result in defaults on a number of our assets within a short time period, which may reduce our net income and the value of our shares and accordingly reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. difficult conditions in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets have resulted in a significant contraction in liquidity for mortgages and mortgage-related assets, which may adversely affect the value of the assets in which we invest. our manager’s use of models in connection with the valuation of our assets subjects us to potential risks in the event that such models are incorrect, misleading or based on incomplete information. as part of the risk management process, our manager uses detailed proprietary models to evaluate, depending on the asset class, house price appreciation and depreciation by region, prepayment speeds and foreclosure frequency, cost and timing. models and data are used to value assets or potential assets and also in connection with hedging our acquisitions. many of the models are based on historical trends. these trends may not be indicative of future results. furthermore, the assumptions underlying the models may prove to be inaccurate, causing the models to also be incorrect. in the event models and data prove to be incorrect, misleading or incomplete, any decisions made in reliance thereon expose us to potential risks. for example, by   24 relying on incorrect models and data, especially valuation models, our manager may be induced to buy certain assets at prices that are too high, to sell certain other assets at prices that are too low or to miss favorable opportunities altogether. similarly, any hedging based on faulty models and data may prove to be unsuccessful. our investments in non-agency rmbs or other investment assets of lower credit quality involve credit risk, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. the holder of a mortgage or non-agency rmbs assumes a risk that the borrowers may default on their obligations to make full and timely payments of principal and interest. pursuant to our investment guidelines, we have the ability to acquire non-agency rmbs and other investments that involve credit risk. in general, non-agency rmbs carry greater investment risk than agency rmbs because they are not guaranteed as to principal and/or interest by the u.s. government, any federal agency or any federally chartered corporation. unexpectedly high rates of default (e.g., in excess of the default rates forecasted) and/or higher than expected loss severities on the mortgages collateralizing our non-agency rmbs may adversely affect the value of such assets. accordingly, non-agency rmbs and other investment assets of lower credit quality could cause us to incur losses of income from, and/or losses in market value relating to, these assets if there are defaults of principal and/or interest on these assets. we may have significant credit risk, especially on non-agency rmbs, in certain geographic areas and may be disproportionately affected by economic or housing downturns, natural disasters, terrorist events, adverse climate changes or other adverse events specific to those markets. a significant number of the mortgages collateralizing our rmbs may be concentrated in certain geographic areas. for example, with respect to our non-agency rmbs portfolio, we have significantly higher exposure in california, florida, new york, texas and illinois. certain markets within these states (particularly california and florida) experienced significant decreases in residential home value during the recent housing crisis and continue to experience challenging economic and real estate conditions. any event that adversely affects the economy or real estate market in these states could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our non-agency rmbs portfolio. in general, any material decline in the economy or significant difficulties in the real estate markets would be likely to cause a decline in the value of residential properties securing the mortgages in the relevant geographic area. this, in turn, would increase the risk of delinquency, default and foreclosure on real estate collateralizing our non-agency rmbs in this area. this may then materially adversely affect our credit loss experience on our non-agency rmbs in such area if unexpectedly high rates of default (e.g., in excess of the default rates forecasted) and/or higher than expected loss severities on the mortgages collateralizing such securities were to occur. the occurrence of a natural disaster (such as an earthquake, tornado, hurricane or a flood) or a significant adverse climate change may cause a sudden decrease in the value of real estate and would likely reduce the value of the properties securing the mortgages collateralizing our non-agency rmbs. since certain natural disasters may not typically be covered by the standard hazard insurance policies maintained by borrowers, the borrowers may have to pay for repairs due to the disasters. borrowers may not repair their property or may stop paying their mortgages under those circumstances. this would likely cause defaults and credit loss severities to increase on the pool of mortgages securing our non-agency rmbs which, unlike agency rmbs, are not guaranteed as to principal and/or interest by the u.s. government, any federal agency or federally chartered corporation. we have some investments in non-agency rmbs collateralized by alt a loans and subprime mortgage loans, which, due to lower underwriting standards, are subject to increased risk of losses. we have certain investments in non-agency rmbs backed by collateral pools containing mortgage loans that have been originated using underwriting standards that are less strict than those used in underwriting “prime mortgage loans”. these lower standards permit mortgage loans made to borrowers having impaired credit histories, mortgage loans where the amount of the loan at origination is 80% or more of the value of the   25 mortgage property, mortgage loans made to borrowers with low credit scores, mortgage loans made to borrowers who have other debt that represents a large portion of their income and mortgage loans made to borrowers whose income is not required to be disclosed or verified. due to economic conditions, including increased interest rates and lower home prices, as well as aggressive lending practices, alt a and subprime mortgage loans have in recent periods experienced increased rates of delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss, and they are likely to continue to experience delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss rates that are higher, and that may be substantially higher, than those experienced by mortgage loans underwritten in a more traditional manner. thus, because of higher delinquency rates and losses associated with alt a and subprime mortgage loans, the performance of non-agency rmbs backed by these types of loans that we may acquire could be correspondingly adversely affected, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. increases in interest rates could adversely affect the value of our assets and cause our interest expense to increase, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect our profitability as well as the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. we focus primarily on investing in, financing and managing agency rmbs, non-agency rmbs, residential mortgage loans and other residential mortgage assets in the united states. in a normal yield curve environment, some of these types of assets will generally decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. declines in market value may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. a significant risk associated with these assets is the risk that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. if long-term rates increased significantly, the market value of these assets could decline, and the duration and weighted-average life of the assets could increase. we could realize a loss if the securities were sold. at the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the repurchase agreements we may enter into to finance the purchase of these securities. market values of our assets may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases or expected increases in defaults, increases or expected increases in voluntary prepayments for those assets that are subject to prepayment risk or widening of credit spreads. in addition, in a period of rising interest rates, our operating results will depend in large part on the difference between the income from our assets, net of credit losses, and financing costs. in most cases, the income from such assets will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may significantly influence our net income. increases in these rates will tend to decrease our net income and the market value of our assets. interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect the value of our assets, net income and capital stock. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control. interest rate fluctuations present a variety of risks, including the risk of a narrowing of the difference between asset yields and borrowing rates, flattening or inversion of the yield curve and fluctuating prepayment rates, and may adversely affect our income and the value of our capital stock. additionally, our operating results and prospects may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or may be lower than those of companies with comparable market capitalizations, which could lead to a material decline in the market price of our capital stock. our investments are recorded at fair value and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of these assets. the assets in our investment portfolio are comprised of securities that trade in a market that may experience periods of illiquidity or market dislocation. we value our investments at fair value, as defined by gaap, which   26 valuations may from time to time, require us to use assumptions that may not be unobservable in the marketplace, particularly in periods of market dislocation or illiquidity for such investments. our assumptions, could cause our estimate of value for our investments to be subjective, with the fair value of such investments differing materially from the values in a liquid market. there can be no assurance that the values that we arrive at for our investments can be realized upon the sale of such investments in the marketplace, due both to the potential subjectivity of our valuations and the fact that market values of our investments can be become very volatile depending on market conditions and the performance of certain investments. the failure of servicers to effectively service the mortgage loans underlying certain of the assets in our portfolio could materially and adversely affect our investments in non-agency rmbs and mortgage loans. most residential mortgage loans and securitizations of residential mortgage loans require a servicer to manage collections on each of the underlying loans. both default frequency and default severity of loans may depend upon the quality of the servicer. if servicers are not vigilant in encouraging borrowers to make their monthly payments, the borrowers may be far less likely to make these payments, which could result in a higher frequency of default. if servicers take longer to liquidate non-performing assets, loss severities may tend to be higher than originally anticipated. the failure of servicers to effectively service the mortgage loans underlying certain assets in our portfolio could negatively impact the value of our investments and our performance. many servicers have gone out of business in recent years, requiring a transfer of servicing to another servicer. this transfer takes time and loans may become delinquent because of confusion or lack of attention. in the case of pools of securitized loans, servicers may be required to advance interest on delinquent loans to the extent the servicer deems those advances recoverable. in the event the servicer does not advance, interest may be interrupted even on more senior securities. servicers may also advance more interest than is in fact recoverable once a defaulted loan is disposed, and the loss to the trust may be greater than the outstanding principal balance of that loan (greater than 100% loss severity). any credit ratings assigned to our assets will be subject to ongoing evaluations and revisions and we cannot assure investors that those ratings will not be downgraded. some of our assets are rated by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. any credit ratings on our assets are subject to ongoing evaluation by rating agencies, and we cannot assure investors that any such ratings will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. if rating agencies assign a lower-than-expected rating or reduce or withdraw, or indicate that they may reduce or withdraw, their ratings of our assets in the future, the value of these assets could significantly decline, which would adversely affect the value of our portfolio and could result in losses, our disposition, or the failure of borrowers to satisfy their debt service obligations to us. a prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession or declining real estate values could impair our assets and harm our operations. we believe the risks associated with our business will be more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession, especially if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. our non-agency rmbs and residential mortgage loans will be particularly sensitive to these risks. a decline in real estate values will likely reduce the level of new mortgage loan originations since borrowers often use appreciation in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase of additional properties. borrowers may also be less able or inclined to continue to honor their mortgage obligations if the value of real estate weakens, particularly in situations where balance of the mortgage loan exceeds the value of the mortgaged property. as a result, a decline in real estate values significantly increases the likelihood that we will incur losses on our non-agency rmbs and mortgage loans in the event of default because the value of property securing such investments may be insufficient for us to recover our investment. any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both our net interest income from   27 non-agency rmbs and residential mortgage loans in our portfolio, as well as our manager’s ability to acquire, sell and securitize residential mortgage loans, which would significantly harm our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. prepayment rates may adversely affect the value of our portfolio of assets. the value of our assets may be affected by prepayment rates on mortgage loans. if we purchase assets at a premium to par value, when borrowers prepay their mortgage loans faster than expected, the corresponding prepayments on the mortgage-related securities may reduce the expected yield on such securities because we will have to amortize the related premium on faster than anticipated when we invested in such securities. conversely, if we purchase assets at a discount to par value, when borrowers prepay their mortgage loans slower than expected, the decrease in corresponding prepayments on the mortgage-related securities may reduce the expected yield on such securities because we will not be able to accrete the related discount as quickly as originally anticipated. prepayment rates on loans may be affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, the availability of mortgage credit, the relative economic vitality of the area in which the related properties are located, the servicing of the mortgage loans, possible changes in tax laws, other opportunities for investment, homeowner mobility and other economic, social, geographic, demographic and legal factors and other factors beyond our control. consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty and no strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment or other such risks. in periods of declining interest rates, prepayment rates on mortgage loans generally increase. in addition, prepayments received during periods of declining interest rates are likely to be reinvested by us in assets with yields that are lower than the investments that prepaid. in addition, the market value of the assets may, because of the risk of prepayment, benefit less than other fixed- income securities from declining interest rates. we invest in agency io and inverse io securities, which are highly sensitive to prepayments and/or changes in interest rates. as the underlying mortgages are paid off, the future stream of interest on such securities is reduced. faster prepayments than we anticipated on the underlying loans backing our io and inverse io securities will have an adverse effect on our returns on these investments. the mortgage loans that we acquire, and the mortgage and other loans underlying the rmbs that we acquire, are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. residential mortgage loans are secured by one- to four-family residential properties and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss. the ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property typically is dependent upon the income or assets of the borrower. a number of factors, including a general economic downturn, natural disasters, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances, may impair borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans. in addition, we intend to acquire non-agency rmbs, which are backed by residential real property but, in contrast to agency rmbs, their principal and interest are not guaranteed by federally chartered entities such as fannie mae and freddie mac and, in the case of ginnie mae, the u.s. government. the ability of a borrower to repay these loans or other financial assets is dependent upon the income or assets of these borrowers. in the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. in the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process, which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan.   28 certain investments in whole mortgage loans may require us to purchase less desirable mortgage assets as part of an otherwise desirable pool of mortgage assets, which could subject us to additional risks relating to the less desirable mortgage assets. if we acquire whole mortgage loans, we may be required to purchase other types of mortgage assets as part of an available pool of mortgage assets in order to acquire the desired whole loans. these other mortgage assets may include mortgage assets that subject us to additional risks. acquisition of less desirable mortgage assets may impair our performance and reduce the return on our investments. we are subject to counterparty risk and may be unable to seek indemnity or require our counterparties to repurchase mortgage loans if they breach representations and warranties, which could cause us to suffer losses. when selling mortgage loans, sellers typically make customary representations and warranties about such loans. our residential mortgage loan purchase agreements may entitle us to seek indemnity or demand repurchase or substitution of the loans in the event our counterparty breaches a representation or warranty given to us. however, there can be no assurance that our mortgage loan purchase agreements will contain appropriate representations and warranties, that we will be able to enforce our contractual right to repurchase or substitution, or that our counterparty will remain solvent or otherwise be able to honor its obligations under its mortgage loan purchase agreements. our inability to obtain indemnity or require repurchase of a significant number of loans could harm our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. our real estate assets are subject to risks particular to real property, which may reduce our return from an affected property or asset and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to stockholders. we own assets secured by real estate and may own real estate directly in the future, either through direct acquisitions or upon a default of mortgage loans. real estate investments are subject to various risks, including:     •   natural disasters, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses;     •   acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on september 11, 2001;     •   adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions;     •   changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances;     •   costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions such as indoor mold; and     •   the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses. if any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce our return from an affected property or asset and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of properties that we may acquire or the properties underlying our investments. under various u.s. federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances.   29 the presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner’s ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. to the extent that an owner of a property underlying one of our debt investments becomes liable for removal costs, the ability of the owner to make payments to us may be reduced, which in turn may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage asset held by us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. in the course of our business, we may take title to real estate, and if so, could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. the presence of hazardous substances, if any, on our properties may adversely affect our ability to sell the affected properties and incur substantial remediation costs, thus harming our financial condition. the discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to such properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. to the extent that we invest in msrs in the future, the value that we may realize from msrs and excess msrs may be significantly less than the fair values of such assets reflected on our balance sheet. we may invest in msrs, which arise from contractual agreements between us and the investors (or their agents) in mortgage securities and mortgage loans. excess msrs are interests in mortgage servicing rights, representing a portion of the fee paid to mortgage servicers. the fee that a mortgage servicer is entitled to receive for servicing a pool of mortgages generally exceeds the reasonable compensation that would be charged in an arm’s-length transaction. for example, fannie mae and freddie mac generally require mortgage servicers to be paid a minimum servicing fee that significantly exceeds the amount a servicer would charge in an arm’s-length transaction. the portion of the fee in excess of what would be charged in an arm’s-length transaction is commonly referred to as the excess mortgage servicing fee. subject to maintaining our qualification as a reit and our exclusion from registration as an investment company under the 1940 act, we may acquire msrs from the sale of mortgage loans where we assume the obligation to service the loan in connection with the sale transaction or we may purchase msrs and excess msrs. any msrs and excess msrs that we acquire will be recorded at fair value on our balance sheet. the determination of the fair value of msrs and excess msrs will require our management to make numerous estimates and assumptions. such estimates and assumptions include, without limitation, estimates of future cash flows associated with msrs based upon assumptions involving interest rates as well as the prepayment rates, delinquencies and foreclosure rates of the underlying serviced mortgage loans. the ultimate realization of the value of msrs and excess msrs may be materially different than the fair values of such assets as reflected in our consolidated balance sheet as of any particular date. the use of different estimates or assumptions in connection with the valuation of these assets could produce materially different fair values for such assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. accordingly, there may be material uncertainty about the fair value of any msrs or excess msrs we acquire. furthermore, msrs, excess msrs and the related servicing activities are subject to numerous u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations and may be subject to various judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions on our business. our failure to comply, or the failure of the servicer to comply, with the laws, rules or regulations to which we or they are subjected by virtue of ownership of msrs or excess msrs, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be affected by deficiencies in foreclosure practices of third parties, as well as related delays in the foreclosure process. allegations of deficiencies in foreclosure documentation and servicing and foreclosure practices by among others, several large servicers of residential mortgage loans that surfaced recently raised various concerns   30 relating to such practices. as a result of these alleged deficiencies in foreclosure practices, a number of servicers temporarily suspended foreclosure proceedings beginning in the second half of 2010 while they evaluated their foreclosure practices. in addition, on february 9, 2012, a group consisting of state attorneys general and state bank and mortgage regulators in 49 states reached a settlement with the largest mortgage servicers regarding foreclosure practices in the states’ various jurisdictions. on january 7, 2013 the office of the comptroller of the currency and the board of governors of the federal reserve system announced a settlement with a number of mortgage servicers in lieu of continuing a foreclosure review process, under which borrowers who believed they were financially harmed by the foreclosure process in 2009 and 2010 were able to request an independent review of the process. the settlement, which includes funds for both direct payments to eligible borrowers and for other assistance such as loan modifications and forgiveness of deficiency judgments, ended the case-by-case reviews. the extension of foreclosure timelines increases the inventory backlog of distressed homes on the market and creates greater uncertainty about housing prices. we may incur substantial legal fees and court costs in acquiring a property through contested foreclosure or bankruptcy proceedings. we intend to continue to monitor and review the issues raised by the alleged improper foreclosure practices. we cannot predict exactly how the servicing and foreclosure matters or the resulting litigation or settlement agreements will affect our business and cannot assure you that these matters will not impair our performance and reduce the return on our investments. the lack of liquidity of our assets may adversely affect our business, including our ability to value and sell our assets. we may acquire assets or other instruments that are not liquid, including securities and other instruments that are not publicly traded. moreover, turbulent market conditions, could significantly and negatively impact the liquidity of our assets. illiquid assets typically experience greater price volatility, as a ready market does not exist, and can be more difficult to value. in addition, validating third-party pricing for illiquid assets may be more subjective than more liquid assets. the illiquidity of our assets may make it difficult to sell such assets if the need or desire arises. in addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded such assets. to the extent that we utilize leverage to finance our purchase of assets that are or become illiquid, the negative impact on us related to trying to sell assets quickly could be greatly exacerbated. as a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. although the immediate effect of the federal reserves third round of quantitative easing (or, qe3) was an increase of agency and non-agency rmbs prices, there is no certainty as to what effect qe3 and other recently announced governmental actions might have in the future on the price and liquidity of the securities in which we invest. however, the confluence of such factors as qe3 and further governmental efforts to increase home loan refinancing opportunities could simultaneously raise agency rmbs prices and increase prepayment activity, which could place downward pressure on our net interest margin. on september 13, 2012, the federal reserve announced a third round of quantitative easing, or qe3, which is an open-ended program designed to expand the federal reserve’s holdings of long-term securities by purchasing an additional $40 billion of agency rmbs per month until key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate, show signs of improvement. when combined with programs to extend the average maturity of the federal reserve’s holdings of securities, which is known as “operation twist” and described below, and reinvest principal and interest payments from the federal reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency rmbs into agency rmbs, qe3 was expected to increase the federal reserve’s holdings of long-term securities by $85 billion each month through the end of 2012. the federal reserve also announced that it would keep the target range for the federal funds rate between zero and 0.25% through at least mid-2015, which is six months longer than previously expected. the federal reserve provided further guidance to the market in december 2012 by stating that it intended to keep the federal funds rate close to zero while the unemployment rate is above 6.5% and as long as inflation does not rise above 2.5%. in december 2012, the federal reserve also announced that it would initially begin   31 buying $45 billion of long-term treasury bonds each month and noted that such amount may increase in the future. this bond purchase program replaced the program known as “operation twist,” in which the federal reserve repurchased approximately $45 billion of long-term treasury bonds each month and sold approximately the same amount of short-term treasury bonds. the federal reserve expects these measures to put downward pressure on long-term interest rates. the immediate impact of the announcement of qe3 was an increase in agency and non-agency rmbs prices. this effect was especially pronounced on agency rmbs that the federal reserve was expected to target for acquisition under qe3. since the initial price spike, prices for all but the target securities have receded below the price levels that existed before the announcement of qe3. to the extent that the scope and effectiveness of government-sponsored refinancing programs increases, prepayments on our target securities could increase accordingly. the combination of higher prices and higher refinancing activity on our agency rmbs could decrease our interest rate spread and net interest margin. to the extent qe3 decreases the liquidity in the market for agency rmbs with the attributed we focus on, which has yet to be the case, we might not be able to acquire the securities we target or acquire them in the quantities we desire. we maintain cash balances in our bank accounts that exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation limitation. we regularly maintain cash balances at a single bank domiciled in the united states in excess of the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limit. the failure of such bank could result in the loss of a portion of such cash balances in excess of the federally insured limit, which could materially and adversely affect our financial position. risks related to our capital stock common stock and preferred stock eligible for future sale may have adverse effects on our share price. subject to applicable law, our board of directors has the power, without further stockholder approval, to authorize us to issue additional authorized shares of common stock and preferred stock on the terms and for the consideration it deems appropriate. we cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our capital stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common stock or preferred stock. the market price of our common stock may decline significantly when the restrictions on resale by certain of our stockholders lapse. sales of substantial amounts of common stock, preferred stock or the perception that such sales could occur may adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. if our portfolio of assets generates insufficient income and cash flow, we could be required to sell assets, borrow funds, make a portion of our distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution or distribution of debt securities to fund our distributions. we are generally required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income each year for us to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the “internal revenue code”), which requirement we currently satisfy through quarterly distributions of all or substantially all of our reit taxable income in such year, subject to certain adjustments. our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by a number of factors. although we make quarterly distributions to our stockholders, our board of directors has the sole discretion to determine the timing, form and amount of any distributions to our stockholders. if our portfolio of assets generates insufficient income and cash flow to fund our dividends, we could be required to sell assets, borrow funds or make a portion of our distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution or distribution of debt securities. to the extent that we are required to sell assets in adverse market conditions or borrow funds at unfavorable rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our board of directors will make determinations regarding distributions based upon various factors, including our earnings, our financial condition, our liquidity, our debt and preferred stock covenants, maintenance of our reit   32 qualification, applicable provisions of the maryland general corporation law (or, mgcl) and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. we believe that a change in any one of the following factors could adversely affect our results of operations and impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders:     •   our ability to make profitable investments;     •   margin calls or other expenses that reduce our cash flow;     •   defaults in our asset portfolio or decreases in the value of our portfolio; and     •   a significant increase in our operating expenses. as a result, no assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions to our stockholders at any time in the future or that the level of any distributions we do make to our stockholders will achieve a market yield, increase or even be maintained over time, any of which could materially and adversely affect the value of our common stock. in addition, distributions that we make to our stockholders will generally be taxable to our stockholders as ordinary income. however, a portion of our distributions may be designated by us as long-term capital gains to the extent that they are attributable to capital gain income recognized by us or may constitute a return of capital to the extent that they exceed our earnings and profits as determined for tax purposes. a return of capital is not taxable, but has the effect of reducing the basis of a stockholder’s investment in shares of our common stock. future offerings of debt or equity securities, which may rank senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and result in dilution to owners of our common stock. if we decide to issue debt securities in the future, which would rank senior to our common stock, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. in september 2012, we issued 6,900,000 of preferred stock. no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless full cumulative dividends have been paid on our preferred stock. the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, including in connection with conversions of our outstanding preferred stock, or other future issuances convertible securities, including outstanding options and warrants, or otherwise, will dilute the ownership interest of our common stockholders. additionally, any equity securities or convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. we and, indirectly, our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in us. risks related to our organization and structure certain provisions of the mgcl could inhibit changes in control. certain provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. we are subject to the “business combination” provisions of the mgcl that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our then outstanding voting stock or an affiliate or our associate who, at any time within the two-year period   33 prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting stock) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (i) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of our voting stock and (ii) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of our voting stock other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. these super-majority vote requirements do not apply if our common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under mgcl, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for our shares. these provisions of the mgcl do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by a board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. pursuant to the statute, our board of directors has by resolution exempted business combinations (i) between us and any other person, provided that such business combination is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of our directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person), (ii) between us and apollo and its affiliates and associates and (iii) persons acting in concert with any of the foregoing. as a result, any person described above may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interests of our stockholders, without compliance by us with the supermajority vote requirements and other provisions of the statute. there can be no assurance that our board of directors will not amend or revoke this exemption in the future. the “control share” provisions of the mgcl provide that a holder of “control shares” of a maryland corporation (defined as shares which, when aggregated with all other shares controlled by the stockholder, except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding “control shares”) has no voting rights with respect to such shares except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes entitled to be cast by the acquirer of control shares, our officers and personnel who are also directors. our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. there can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. the “unsolicited takeover” provisions of the mgcl permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which (for example, a classified board) we do not yet have. our charter contains a provision whereby we have elected to be subject to the provisions of title 3, subtitle 8 of the mgcl relating to the filling of vacancies on our board of directors as a result of which, vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. these provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under the circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. our authorized but unissued shares of common and preferred stock may prevent a change in our control. our charter permits our board of directors to authorize us to issue additional shares of our authorized but unissued common or preferred stock. in addition, our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of our shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the terms of the classified or reclassified shares. as a result, our directors may establish a series of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for shares of our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.   34 our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit recourse available holders of our capital stock in the event of actions not in their best interests. our charter limits the liability of our present and former directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under maryland law. under maryland law, our present and former directors and officers do not have any liability to us and our stockholders for money damages other than liability resulting from:     •   actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or     •   active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was established by a final judgment and was material to the cause of action adjudicated. our charter authorizes us to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those and other capacities to the maximum extent permitted by maryland law. our bylaws require us to indemnify each present and former director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. we have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors and officers pursuant to which we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the defense costs incurred by our present and former directors and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which could make it difficult for stockholders to effect changes to our management. our charter provides that, subject to the rights of any series of preferred stock, a director may be removed with or without cause upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. vacancies may be filled only by a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if less than a quorum. these requirements make it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing directors and may prevent a change in control of us that is in the best interests of stockholders. ownership limitations may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities in which our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. in order for us to qualify as a reit, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year, and at least 100 persons must beneficially own our stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate portion of a shorter taxable year. “individuals” for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. to preserve our reit qualification, among other purposes, our charter generally prohibits any person from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our capital stock or more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. the articles supplementary for our preferred stock prohibits any stockholder from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding preferred stock. these ownership limits could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. our board of directors have established exemptions from the ownership limits which permit apollo and certain of its affiliates to collectively hold up to 25% of our common stock and certain private fund investors to collectively hold up to the greater of 1,540,500 shares of our common stock or 15% of our common stock.   35 risks related to our taxation as a reit qualifying as a reit involves highly technical and complex provisions of the internal revenue code, and our failure to qualify as a reit or remain qualified as a reit would subject us to u.s. federal income tax and applicable state and local taxes, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. we have elected to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ended december 31, 2011. we have not requested and do not intend to request a ruling from the internal revenue service (or, irs) that we qualify as a reit. the u.s. federal income tax laws governing reits are complex, and judicial and administrative interpretations of the u.s. federal income tax laws governing reit qualification are limited. to qualify as a reit, we must meet, on an ongoing basis, various tests regarding the nature and diversification of our assets and our income, the ownership of our outstanding shares, and the amount of our distributions. even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our reit qualification. our ability to satisfy the reit asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination. our compliance with the reit income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. moreover, new legislation, court decisions or administrative guidance, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a reit. in addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a reit depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for u.s. federal income tax purposes. thus, while we currently operate so that we will qualify as a reit, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing reits, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will so qualify for any particular year. if we fail to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would be required to pay u.s. federal income tax on our taxable income, and distributions to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in determining our taxable income. in such a case, we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay our taxes. our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to stockholders. furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a reit, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our taxable income to stockholders. in addition, unless we were eligible for certain statutory relief provisions, we could not re-elect to qualify as a reit for the subsequent four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify. complying with reit requirements may force us to liquidate or forego otherwise attractive investments. to qualify as a reit, we must ensure that we meet the reit gross income tests annually and that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities, shares in reits and other qualifying real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and certain kinds of mortgage-backed securities. the remainder of our investments in securities (other than government securities and reit qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. in addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and securities that are qualifying real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more trss. if we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our reit qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. as a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio, or contribute to a trs, otherwise attractive investments, and may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source of income or asset diversification requirements for qualifying as a reit. these actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.   36 reit distribution requirements may cause us to forego attractive investment opportunities and/or may require us to incur debt or sell assets to make such distributions. in order to qualify as a reit, we must distribute to our stockholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of our reit taxable income including certain items of non-cash income), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. to the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to u.s. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. in addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than a minimum amount specified under u.s. federal income tax laws. we distribute our net income to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the reit 90% distribution requirement and to avoid the 4% nondeductible excise tax. our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on gaap because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our gaap net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. in addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. although some types of phantom income are excluded in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. in addition, our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined by gaap or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. for example, we may be required to accrue interest and discount income on mortgage loans, rmbs, and other types of debt securities or interests in debt securities before we receive any payments of interest or principal on such assets. we may also acquire distressed debt instruments that are subsequently modified by agreement with the borrower. if the amendments to the outstanding debt are “significant modifications” under the applicable treasury regulations, the modified debt may be considered to have been reissued to us at a gain in a debt-for-debt exchange with the borrower, with gain recognized by us to the extent that the principal amount of the modified debt exceeds our cost of purchasing it prior to modification. we may be required under the terms of the indebtedness that we incur, whether to private lenders or pursuant to government programs, to use cash received from interest payments to make principal payment on that indebtedness, with the effect that we will recognize income but will not have a corresponding amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. as a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year and find it difficult or impossible to meet the reit distribution requirements in certain circumstances. in such circumstances, we may be required to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt or (iv) make a taxable distribution of our shares as part of a distribution in which stockholders may elect to receive shares or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash, in order to comply with the reit distribution requirements and to avoid u.s. federal corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. thus, compliance with the reit distribution requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. even if we qualify as a reit, we may face tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. even if we qualify for taxation as a reit, we may be subject to certain u.s. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, franchise, property and transfer taxes, including mortgage recording taxes. we also could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the internal revenue code to maintain our qualification as a reit. in addition, any trs we own will be subject to u.s. federal, state and local corporate taxes. in order to meet the reit qualification requirements, or to avoid the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a reit from sales of inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, we may hold some of our assets through trss. any taxes paid by us or our trss would decrease the cash available for distribution to our stockholders.   37 the failure of mortgage loans or rmbs subject to a repurchase agreement to qualify as a real estate asset would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a reit. when we enter into repurchase agreements, we will nominally sell certain of our assets to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. we believe that we will be treated for u.s. federal income tax purposes as the owner of the assets that are the subject of any such agreements notwithstanding that such agreements may transfer record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. it is possible, however, that the irs could assert that we did not own the assets during the term of the repurchase agreement, in which case we could fail to qualify as a reit. we may be required to report taxable income for certain investments in excess of the economic income we ultimately realize from them. we have acquired and intend to continue to acquire non-agency rmbs at prices that reflect significant market discounts on their unpaid principal balances. under gaap, we generally establish a portion of this market discount as a credit deserve. this credit deserve is generally not accreted into income for financial statement reporting purposes. for tax purposes, however, we are not permitted to anticipate, or establish a reserve for, credit losses prior to their occurrence. as a result, the entire market discount is accreted into income in determining taxable income during periods in which no actual losses are incurred. losses are only recognized for tax purposes when incurred (thus lowering taxable income in periods in which losses are incurred). these differences between tax and gaap in recognizing revenue can lead to significant timing variances in the recognition of income and losses. taxable income on non-agency rmbs purchased at a discount to their par value may be higher than gaap earnings in early periods (before losses are actually incurred). because we distribute dividends to our stockholders based on our taxable income, our dividend distributions could exceed our gaap income in periods during which our taxable income exceeds our gaap income on our non-agency rmbs purchased at discount to par value. similarly, some of the rmbs that we acquire may have been issued with original issue discount (or, oid). we will be required to report such original issue discount based on a constant yield method and will be taxed based on the assumption that all future projected payments due on such rmbs will be made. if such rmbs turns out not to be fully collectible, an offsetting loss deduction will become available only in the later year that uncollectability is provable. finally, in the event that any debt instruments or rmbs acquired by us are delinquent as to mandatory principal and interest payments, or in the event payments with respect to a particular debt instrument are not made when due, we may nonetheless be required to continue to recognize the unpaid interest as taxable income as it accrues, despite doubt as to its ultimate collectability. similarly, we may be required to accrue interest income with respect to subordinate mortgage-backed securities at its stated rate regardless of whether corresponding cash payments are received or are ultimately collectable. in each case, while we would in general ultimately have an offsetting loss deduction available to us when such interest was determined to be uncollectible, the utility of that deduction could depend on us having taxable income in that later year or thereafter. we may acquire excess msrs, which means the portion of an msr that exceeds the arm’s length fee for services performed by the mortgage service. based on internal revenue service guidance concerning the classification of excess msrs to the extent we acquire excess msrs, we intend to treat such excess msrs as ownership interests in the interest payments made on the underlying mortgage loans, akin to an “interest only” strip. under this treatment, for purposes of determining the amount and timing of taxable income, each excess msr is treated as a bond that was issued with oid on the date we acquired such excess msr. in general, we will be required to accrue oid based on the constant yield to maturity of each excess msr, and to treat such oid as taxable income in accordance with the applicable u.s. federal income tax rules. the constant yield of an excess msr will be determined, and we will be taxed, based on a prepayment assumption regarding future payments due on the mortgage loans underlying the excess msr. if the mortgage loans underlying an excess msr prepay at a rate different than that under the prepayment assumption, our recognition of oid will be either increased or   38 decreased depending on the circumstances. thus, in a particular taxable year, we may be required to accrue an amount of income in respect of an excess msr that exceeds the amount of cash collected in respect of that excess msr. furthermore, it is possible that, over the life of the investment in an excess msr, the total amount we pay for, and accrue with respect to, the excess msr may exceed the total amount we collect on such excess msr. no assurance can be given that we will be entitled to a deduction for such excess, meaning that we may be required to recognize phantom income over the life of an excess msr, which will impact our reit distribution requirements. the interest apportionment rules may affect our ability to comply with the reit asset and gross income tests. the interest apportionment rules under treasury regulation section 1.856-5(c) provide that, if a mortgage is secured by both real property and other property, a reit is required to apportion its annual interest income to the real property security based on a fraction, the numerator of which is the value of the real property securing the loan, determined when the reit commits to acquire the loan, and the denominator of which is the highest “principal amount” of the loan during the year. irs revenue procedure 2011-16 interprets the “principal amount” of the loan to be the face amount of the loan, despite the internal revenue code requiring taxpayers to treat any market discount, that is the difference between the purchase price of the loan and its face amount, for all purposes (other than certain withholding and information reporting purposes) as interest rather than principal. the interest apportionment regulations apply only if the mortgage loan in question is secured by both real property and other property. we expect that all or most of the mortgage loans that we acquire will be secured only by real property and no other property value is taken into account in our underwriting process. accordingly, it is not contemplated that we will invest in mortgage loans to which the interest apportionment rules described above would apply. nevertheless, if the irs were to assert successfully that our mortgage loans were secured by property other than real estate, the interest apportionment rules applied for purposes of our reit testing, and that the position taken in irs revenue procedure 2011-16 should be applied to certain mortgage loans in our portfolio, then depending upon the value of the real property securing our mortgage loans and their face amount, and the sources of our gross income generally, we may fail to meet the 75% reit gross income test. if we do not meet this test, we could potentially lose our reit qualification or be required to pay a penalty to the irs. in addition, the internal revenue code provides that a regular or a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit (or, remic) is generally treated as a real estate asset for the purpose of the reit asset tests, and any amount includible in our gross income with respect to such an interest is generally treated as interest on an obligation secured by a mortgage on real property for the purpose of the reit gross income tests. if, however, less than 95% of the assets of a remic in which we hold an interest consist of real estate assets (determined as if we held such assets), we will be treated as holding our proportionate share of the assets of the remic for the purpose of the reit asset tests and receive directly our proportionate share of the income of the remic for the purpose of determining the amount of income from the remic that is treated as interest on an obligation secured by a mortgage on real property. in connection with the expanded home affordable refinance program, the irs issued guidance providing that, among other things, if a reit holds a regular interest in an “eligible remic,” or a residual interest in an “eligible remic” that informs the reit that at least 80% of the remic’s assets constitute real estate assets, then (i) the reit may treat 80% of the value of the interest in the remic as a real estate asset for the purpose of the reit asset tests and (ii) the reit may treat 80% of the gross income received with respect to the interest in the remic as interest on an obligation secured by a mortgage on real property for the purpose of the 75% reit gross income test. for this purpose, a remic is an “eligible remic” if (i) the remic has received a guarantee from fannie mae or freddie mac that will allow the remic to make any principal and interest payments on its regular and residual interests and (ii) all of the remic’s mortgages and pass-through certificates are secured by interests in single-family dwellings (which includes one-t-four family dwellings). if we were to acquire an interest in an eligible remic less than 95% of the assets of which constitute real estate assets, the irs guidance described above may generally allow us to treat 80% of our interest in such a remic as a qualifying asset for the purpose of the reit asset tests and 80% of the gross income derived from the interest as qualifying income for the purpose of the 75% reit gross income test. although the portion of the   39 income from such a remic interest that does not qualify for the 75% reit gross income test would likely be qualifying income for the purpose of the 95% reit gross income test, the remaining 20% of the remic interest generally would not qualify as a real estate asset, which could adversely affect our ability to satisfy the reit asset tests. accordingly, owning such a remic interest could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a reit. the “taxable mortgage pool” rules may increase the taxes that we or our stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations. securitizations by us or our subsidiaries could result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for u.s. federal income tax purposes. as a result, we could have “excess inclusion income.” certain categories of stockholders, such as non-u.s. stockholders eligible for treaty or other benefits, stockholders with net operating losses, and certain tax-exempt stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income from us that is attributable to any such excess inclusion income. in the case of a stockholder that is a reit, a regulated investment company (or, ric), common trust fund or other pass-through entity, our allocable share of our excess inclusion income could be considered excess inclusion income of such entity. in addition, to the extent that our common stock is owned by tax-exempt “disqualified organizations,” such as certain government-related entities and charitable remainder trusts that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, we may incur a corporate level tax on a portion of any excess inclusion income. because this tax generally would be imposed on us, all of our stockholders, including stockholders that are not disqualified organizations, generally will bear a portion of the tax cost associated with the classification of us or a portion of our assets as a taxable mortgage pool. a ric, or other pass-through entity owning our common stock in record name, will be subject to tax at the highest u.s. federal corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their owners that are disqualified organizations. moreover, we could face limitations in selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. finally, if we were to fail to qualify as a reit, any taxable mortgage pool securitizations would be treated as separate taxable corporations for u.s. federal income tax purposes that could not be included in any consolidated u.s. federal corporate income tax return. historically, we have not generated excess inclusion; however, despite our efforts, we may not be able to avoid creating or distributing excess inclusion income to our stockholders in the future. in addition, we could face limitations in selling equity interests to outside investors in securitization transactions that are taxable mortgage pools or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. these limitations may prevent us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns from securitization transactions. although our use of trss may be able to partially mitigate the impact of meeting the requirements necessary to maintain our qualification as a reit, our ownership of and relationship with our trss is limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our reit qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax if our transaction with a trs is not conducted on an arm’s length basis. a reit may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more trss. subject to certain exceptions, a trs may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a reit. both the subsidiary and the reit must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a trs. a corporation of which a trs directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a trs. overall, no more than 25% of the value of a reit’s total assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more trs. in addition, the trs rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a trs to its parent reit to assure that the trs is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. the rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a trs and its parent reit that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. trss that we may form will pay u.s. federal, state and local income or franchise tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but will not be required to be distributed to us, unless necessary to maintain our reit qualification. we will monitor the aggregate value of the securities of our trss and intend to conduct our affairs so that such securities will represent less than 25% of the value of our total assets. in addition, we will scrutinize our transactions with our   40 trss to ensure that they are entered into on arm’s length terms to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax. there can be no assurance however, that we will be able to comply with the trs limitation or avoid the 100% excise tax in all situations. dividends payable by reits generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. the maximum u.s. federal income tax rate for certain qualified dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. dividends payable by reits, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates and therefore may be subject to the maximum u.s. federal income tax rate on ordinary income. although the reduced u.s. federal income tax rate applicable to dividend income from regular corporate dividends does not adversely affect the taxation of reits or dividends paid by reits, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in reits to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-reit corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of reits, including our shares. complying with reit requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. the reit provisions of the internal revenue code may limit our ability to hedge our assets and operations. under these provisions, any income that we generate from transactions intended to hedge our interest rate exposure will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the reit 75% and 95% gross income tests if the instrument hedges interest rate risk on liabilities used to carry or acquire real estate assets, or certain other specified types of risk, and such instrument is properly identified under applicable treasury regulations. income from hedging transactions that do not meet these requirements will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of both the reit 75% and 95% gross income tests. as a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous or implement those hedges through a trs. this could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our trs would be subject to tax on gains or the limits on our use of hedging techniques could expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. in addition, losses in our trs will generally not provide any tax benefit to us, although such losses may be carried forward to offset future taxable income of the trs. the tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans that would be treated as sales for u.s. federal income tax purposes. a reit’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. we might be subject to this tax if we were to sell or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans as inventory for u.s. federal income tax purposes. therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans, other than through a trs, and we may be required to limit the structures we use for our securitization transactions, even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial for us. we may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of shares of our common stock. at any time, the u.s. federal income tax laws or regulations governing reits or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be changed, possibly with retroactive effect. we cannot predict if or when any new u.s. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing u.s. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective or whether any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. we and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, u.s. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation.   41 liquidation of our assets may jeopardize our reit qualification. to qualify as a reit, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. if we are compelled to liquidate our assets to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, thereby jeopardizing our qualification as a reit, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. our qualification as a reit and exemption from u.s. federal income tax with respect to certain assets may be dependent on the accuracy of legal opinions or advice rendered or given or statements by the issuers of assets that we acquire, and the inaccuracy of any such opinions, advice or statements may adversely affect our reit qualification and result in significant corporate-level tax. when purchasing securities, we may rely on opinions or advice of counsel for the issuer of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether such securities represent debt or equity securities for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and also to what extent those securities constitute reit real estate assets for purposes of the reit asset tests and produce income which qualifies under the 75% reit gross income test. in addition, when purchasing the equity tranche of a securitization, we may rely on opinions or advice of counsel regarding the qualification of the securitization for exemption from u.s. corporate income tax and the qualification of interests in such securitization as debt for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the inaccuracy of any such opinions, advice or statements may adversely affect our reit qualification and result in significant corporate-level tax. our ability to invest in “to-be-announced” forward contracts could be limited by our reit qualification, and we could fail to qualify as a reit as a result of these investments. we may purchase forward-settling agency rmbs through “to-be-announced” forward contracts (or, tbas). pursuant to these tbas, we will agree to purchase, for future delivery, agency rmbs with certain principal and interest terms and certain types of underlying collateral, but the particular agency rmbs to be delivered is not identified until shortly before the tba settlement date. as with any forward purchase contract, the value of the underlying agency rmbs may decrease between the contract date and the settlement date, which may result in the recognition of income or gains or loss. the law is unclear regarding whether tbas are qualifying assets for the 75% reit asset test. accordingly, our ability to purchase agency rmbs through tbas or to dispose of tbas, through these transactions or otherwise, could be limited. we do not expect tbas to comprise a significant portion of our assets and, therefore, do not expect tbas to adversely affect our ability to meet the reit assets tests. no assurance can be given that the irs would treat tbas as qualifying assets. in the event that such assets are determined to be non-qualifying, we could be subject to a penalty tax or we could fail to qualify as a reit if the value of our tbas, together with our non-qualifying assets for the 75% asset test, exceeded 25% of our total assets at the end of any calendar quarter or any income from the disposition of tbas exceeded 25% of our gross income for any taxable year.   item 1b. unresolved