item 1a. risk factors. the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. risks related to our business in general we are a development stage company. if we are unable to implement our business strategy or operate our business as we currently expect to do, our operating results may be adversely affected. we are a development stage company and our business model is untested. businesses like ours that are starting up or in their initial stages of development present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. we have not completed a full year operations and as a result we cannot predict our results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows. we have generated no revenue to date and may not have sufficient capital to implement our business model. in addition, we will have increased costs as a result of being a stand-alone public company, including with respect to maintaining a separate board of directors and obtaining a separate audit, in addition to accounting, tax, legal, insurance and compliance costs and other professional fees. currently, we are unable to estimate the amount of such expenses. there can be no assurance that the business will become profitable or if we become profitable that it will be sustainable. the income potential of our proposed business is unproven, and the absence of an operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects. we may not be able to execute our business strategy as planned which may adversely impact our financial performance. we depend on aamc, agreements aamc has negotiated on our behalf and aamc's key personnel for our success. we may not be able to retain our exclusive engagement of aamc if (i) the asset management agreement with aamc is terminated or (ii) we fail to maintain enough capital to acquire sub-performing and non-performing loans. our success is dependent upon our relationships with and the performance of aamc and its key personnel. key personnel may leave the employment of aamc, may become distracted by adverse financial or operational issues in connection with their business and activities unrelated to us and over which we have no control or may fail to perform for any reason. the asset management agreement provides that aamc will not offer the services as described therein to another person or entity that invests in reo properties and/or sub-performing and non-performing loans provided we maintain available capital to acquire such assets. in the event that the asset management agreement is terminated for any reason or aamc is unable to retain its key personnel, it may be difficult for us to secure suitable replacements to aamc and its personnel on acceptable terms or at all. further, in the event we are unable to maintain sufficient available capital to acquire sub-performing and non-performing loans, aamc may provide its services to a competitor, and it may be difficult for us to secure a suitable replacement or maintain our exclusive engagement of aamc. we are unable to terminate the asset management agreement during the first two years of its term except “for cause” as defined therein. in the event we terminate the asset management agreement without cause or aamc terminates the asset management agreement due to our default in the performance of any material term of the asset management agreement, we will be required to pay a significant termination fee and the agreements of our service providers may simultaneously terminate. the occurrence of any of the above-described events would adversely impact the value of your investment. the continuing unpredictability of the credit markets may restrict our access to capital and may make it difficult or impossible for us to obtain any required additional financing. the domestic and international credit markets continue to be unpredictable. in the event that we need additional capital for our business, we may face challenges in obtaining it and/or the terms upon which we can obtain it would have an adverse impact on our financial performance. furthermore, if we are unable to secure financings in the future, we could be forced to sell assets in order to maintain liquidity. forced sales under adverse market conditions may result in lower sales prices which could adversely affect our performance. failure of altisource to effectively perform its obligations under various agreements with us including the altisource master services agreement could have an adverse effect on our business and performance. both aamc and we have engaged altisource to provide services. if for any reason altisource is unable to perform the services described under these agreements at the level and/or the cost that we anticipate, alternate service providers may not be readily available on acceptable terms or at all which could adversely affect aamc's performance under the asset management agreement with us. altisource's failure to perform the services under these agreements with us would also have an adverse effect on our business particularly its failure to provide adequate services under the altisource master services agreement. such a failure could also lead to a decline or other adverse effects to our operating results and could harm our ability to execute our business plan. in addition, we are required to pay altisource for the services it provides under the altisource master services agreement, support services agreement and trademark license agreement. if we fail to pay altisource or otherwise default under these agreements, altisource may cease to act under the altisource master services agreement and other agreements which would adversely affect our operating results and our ability to execute our business plan. failure of ocwen to effectively perform its servicing obligations under the ocwen servicing agreement could have an adverse effect on our business and performance. we are contractually obligated to service the residential mortgage loans that we acquire. we do not have any employees, servicing platform, licenses or technical resources necessary to service our acquired loans. consequently, we have engaged ocwen to service the non-performing and sub-performing loans we acquire. if for any reason ocwen is unable to service the acquired loans at the level and/or the cost that we anticipate, an alternate servicer may not be readily available on acceptable terms or at all which could have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our business plan and thereby adversely affecting our operating results. in addition, under the ocwen servicing agreement, we are required to pay ocwen fees for servicing our acquired mortgage loans. if we fail to pay ocwen or otherwise default under the ocwen servicing agreement, ocwen may cease to act as the servicer under the ocwen servicing agreement which would adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and our operating results. your investment return may be reduced if we are deemed to be an investment company under the investment company act. we rely on the exception from the investment company act set forth in section 3(c)(5)(c) of the investment company act which excludes from the definition of investment company “[a]ny person who is not engaged in the business of issuing redeemable securities, face-amount certificates of the installment type or periodic payment plan certificates, and who is primarily engaged in one or more of the following businesses… (c) purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” the sec staff generally requires that, for the exception provided by section 3(c)(5)(c) to be available, at least 55% of an entity's assets be comprised of mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate, also known as “qualifying interest,” and at least another 25% of the entity's assets must be comprised of additional qualifying interests or, real estate-type interests (with no more than 20% of the entity's assets comprised of miscellaneous assets). we believe that our $18.0 million investment in newsource will not meet the definition of “qualifying interest.” any significant acquisition by us of non-real estate assets without the acquisition of substantial real estate assets could cause us to meet the definitions of an “investment company.” if we are deemed to be an investment company and our investment in newsource accounts for more than 20% of our assets, we could be required to dispose of our newsource investment or a portion thereof, potentially at a loss, in order to qualify for the 3(c)(5)(c) exception. we may also be required to register as an investment company if we are unable to dispose of the disqualifying assets which could have an adverse effect on us. in august 2011, the sec issued a concept release which indicated that the sec is reviewing whether issuers who own certain mortgage related investments which rely on the exception from registration under section 3(c)(5)(c), should continue to be allowed to rely on such exception from registration. we cannot provide you with any assurance that the outcome of the sec's review will not require us to register under the investment company act. if we are determined to be an investment company, and we fail to qualify for this exception from registration as an investment company or the sec determines that companies that engage in businesses similar to ours are no longer able to rely on this exception, we may be required to register as an investment company under the investment company act. registration under the investment company act would require us to comply with a variety of substantive requirements that impose, among other things: • limitations on capital structure; • restrictions on specified investments; • restrictions on retaining earnings; 6 (table of contents) • restrictions on leverage or senior securities; • restrictions on unsecured borrowings; • requirements that our income be derived from certain types of assets; • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates and • compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses. if we were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. registration with the sec as an investment company would be costly, would subject us to a host of complex regulations and would divert attention from the conduct of our business. in addition, if we purchase or sell any real estate assets to avoid becoming an investment company under the investment company act, we could materially adversely affect our net asset value, the amount of funds available for investment and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. aamc has a contractually defined duty to us rather than a fiduciary duty. under the asset management agreement, aamc has a contractual, as opposed to a fiduciary, relationship with us that limits aamc's obligations to us to those specifically set forth in the asset management agreement. the ability of aamc and its officers and employees to engage in other business activities may reduce the time aamc spends managing us. in addition, unlike the fiduciary relationship we have with our directors, there is no statutory standard of conduct under the maryland general corporation law, which we refer to as “mgcl,” for officers of a maryland corporation. instead, officers of a maryland corporation including our officers who are employees of aamc, are subject to general agency principals including the exercise of reasonable care and skill in the performance of their responsibilities as well as the duties of loyalty, good faith and candid disclosure. our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we will be subject following the separation date. as a result of the separation, we are directly subject to reporting and other obligations under the exchange act. under the sarbanes-oxley act, we are required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. to comply with these requirements, we may need to implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hire additional accounting and finance staff. we have and expect to incur additional annual expenses for the purpose of addressing these requirements, and these expenses may be significant. if we are unable to implement additional controls, reporting systems, information technology systems and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies under the exchange act could be impaired. any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in the future, we may also be required to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. these reporting and other obligations may place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting systems and resources. the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to us as an “emerging growth company” or a “smaller reporting company” may make our common stock less attractive to investors. we are an "emerging growth company" as defined in the jobs act of 2012, and we may avail ourselves of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements of public companies that are not "emerging growth companies" including, but not limited to, an exemption from complying with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. additionally, we are a “smaller reporting company” as defined in rule 12b-2 of the exchange act. as a smaller reporting company we prepare and file sec forms similar to other sec reporting companies; however, the information disclosed may differ and be less comprehensive. smaller reporting companies have reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirement of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. we may remain an "emerging growth company" for up to five full fiscal years following our separation. we would cease to be an emerging growth company and, therefore, become ineligible to rely on the above exemptions, if we have more than $1 billion in annual revenue in a fiscal year, if we issue more than $1 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period or on the date we become a “large accelerated filer” as defined in rule 12b-2 under the securities exchange act of 1934 which would occur if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of 7 (table of contents) our most recently completed second fiscal quarter. if some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of the exemptions available to us as an emerging growth company or smaller reporting company, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile than that of an otherwise comparable company that does not avail itself of the same or similar exemptions. risks related to acquisition and ownership of real estate and real estate related assets our supply of sub-performing and non-performing loans and reo properties may be reduced by uncertainty in the lending industry and governmental sector and/or general economic improvement. our business model is dependent on the acquisition of a steady supply of non-performing loans and reo properties. the number of non-performing loans and reo properties available may be reduced by uncertainty in the lending industry and the governmental sector and/or as a result of general economic improvement. lenders may choose to delay foreclosure proceedings, renegotiate interest rates or refinance mortgages for holders who face foreclosure. in recent years, the federal government has instituted a number of programs aimed at assisting at-risk mortgage holders and reducing the number of properties going into foreclosure or going into non-performing status. for example, the u.s. government, through the federal reserve, the federal housing administration, which we refer to as the “fha,” and the federal deposit insurance corporation has implemented a number of federal programs designed to assist homeowners, including the home affordable modification program, which we refer to as the “hamp,” which provides homeowners with assistance in avoiding defaulting or residential mortgage loan foreclosures, the hope for homeowners program, which we refer to as the “h4h program,” which allows certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into fha-insured loans in order to avoid residential mortgage loan foreclosures; and the home affordable refinance program which allows borrowers who are current on their mortgage payments to refinance and reduce their monthly mortgage payments without new mortgage insurance, up to an unlimited loan-to-value ratio for fixed-rate mortgages. hamp, the h4h program and other loss mitigation programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans (through forbearance and/or forgiveness) and/or the rate of interest payable on the loans or to extend the payment terms of the loans. these loan modification programs, future legislative or regulatory actions, including possible amendments to the bankruptcy laws which result in the modification of outstanding residential mortgage loans as well as changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing mortgage loans, may materially adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, residential's portfolio of sub-performing and non-performing loans. in the future, the federal government could institute additional programs to provide financial relief and assistance to mortgage holders at risk of foreclosure. general economic improvement and/or decisions by lenders and government programs that reduce the number of reo properties could adversely affect our business opportunities and impact our overall financial performance. our supply of sub-performing and non-performing loans may decline over time as a result of higher credit standards for new loans, increased prices for sub-performing and non-performing loans and/or general economic improvement. our business model is also dependent on the acquisition of a steady supply of sub-performing and non-performing mortgage loans. as a result of the economic crisis in 2008, there is currently a large supply of sub-performing and non-performing loans available for us to acquire. however, in response to the economic crisis, the origination of jumbo, subprime, alt-a and second lien mortgage loans has dramatically declined as lenders have increased their standards of credit-worthiness in originating new loans and fewer families may go into non-performing status on their mortgages. in addition, the prices at which sub-performing and non-performing loans can be acquired may increase due to the influx of new participants into the non-performing loan marketplace or a lower supply non-performing loans in the marketplace. for these reasons, along with the general improvement in the economy, the supply of sub-performing and non-performing mortgage loans that we may acquire may decline over time and could adversely affect our business opportunities and result in a reduction of our operating income. competition in identifying and acquiring real estate or real estate related assets in a timely manner may adversely affect our financial results. we face competition from various sources for investment opportunities in sub-performing and non-performing loans and reo properties including reits, pension funds, insurance companies, hedge funds, other investment funds and companies, partnerships and developers. some third party competitors have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to accept more risk than we can. competition from these companies may reduce the number of suitable sub-performing and non-performing loan and reo properties investment opportunities offered to us, increase the prices at which non- 8 (table of contents) performing loans can be acquired or increase the bargaining power of asset owners seeking to sell. if such events occur, our financial performance may be adversely impacted and, therefore, have adverse consequences to us. our operating results depend on the availability of, and our ability to quickly identify and acquire appropriate sub-performing and non-performing loan and reo property investment opportunities. it may take considerable time for us to acquire appropriate sub-performing and non-performing loan and reo property investments, or we may have to pay more for non-performing loans than expected. given the existing competition, complexity of the market and requisite time needed to make such investments, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in acquiring investments which satisfy our return objectives. furthermore, there is no assurance that such investments, once acquired, will perform as intended. competition could limit our ability to lease single-family rental assets or increase or maintain rents. our single-family rental assets, when acquired, will compete with other housing alternatives to attract residents including rental apartments, condominiums and other single-family homes available for rent as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. competitive residential housing in a particular area could adversely affect our ability to lease our single-family rental assets and to increase or maintain rental rates. changes in global economic and capital market conditions, including periods of generally deteriorating real estate industry fundamentals, may significantly impact our financial performance. there are risks to the ownership of real estate and real estate related assets, including decreases in residential property values, changes in global, national, regional or local economic, demographic and real estate market conditions as well as other factors particular to the locations of our investments. a prolonged recession, such as the one experienced over the past few years, and a prolonged recovery period could adversely impact our business as a result of, among other items, increased customer defaults under leases, lower demand for residential rentals as well as a potential oversupply of residential rental units, each of which could lead to increased concessions or reduced rental rates to maintain occupancies. these conditions could also adversely impact the financial condition of the renters that will occupy our real estate properties and, as a result, their ability to pay rent which would significantly impact our financial performance. in addition, on december 21, 2012, we entered into a subscription agreement to invest $18.0 million in the non-voting preferred stock of newsource. the demand for title insurance-related services depends in large part on the volume of real estate transactions. the volume of these transactions historically has been influenced by such factors as mortgage interest rates, availability of financing and the overall state of the economy. when market conditions cause real estate activity to decline, the title insurance industry tends to experience decreased revenues and earnings. in addition, adverse change in the marketplace could lead to an increase in title claims that newsource may be required to defend and/or pay. thus, a decline of activity in the real estate market or an increase in title claims could adversely impact newsource's ability to generate profits and pay the dividend on our preferred stock and the value of our investment in newsource. unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could adversely affect occupancy, rental rates, operating expenses and the overall market value of our assets. local conditions may significantly affect occupancy, rental rates and the operating performance of our single-family rental assets, when acquired. the risks that may adversely affect conditions in those markets include, amongst others, the following: • joblessness or unemployment rates that adversely affect the local economy; • an oversupply of or a reduced demand for single-family homes for rent; • a decline in household formation or employment or lack of employment growth; • the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases or fulfill their lease obligations; • a decline in rental rate which may be accentuated since we expect to have rent terms of two years or less; • rent control or rent stabilization laws or other laws regulating housing that could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs; • inability of borrowers to refinance modified loans and • economic conditions that could cause an increase in our operating expenses such as increases in property taxes, utilities and routine maintenance. in the event any of these market conditions evolve, our ability to generate revenues and our operating expenses could be materially adversely affected and our results and financial condition would be adversely impacted. 9 (table of contents) changes in applicable laws or noncompliance with applicable law, could adversely affect our operations or expose us to liability. as an owner of real estate, we will be required to comply with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with one another or be subject to limited judicial or regulatory interpretations. these laws and regulations may include zoning laws, building codes, landlord-tenant laws and other laws generally applicable to business operations. noncompliance with laws or regulations could expose us to liability. lower revenue growth or significant unanticipated expenditures may result from our need to comply with changes in (i) laws imposing remediation requirements and potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws or other residential landlord-tenant laws or (iii) other governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the rehabilitation, use and operation of our single-family rental assets including changes to building codes and fire and life-safety codes. in addition, the value of, and the returns on residential mortgage loans may be impacted by loan modification and refinance programs the u.s. government has commenced or has proposed. in addition, we expect newsource to register as a class 3a bermuda insurance company and be subject to regulation and supervision in bermuda by the bermuda monetary authority. changes in bermuda insurance statutes, regulations and policies could result in restrictions on newsource's ability to pursue its business plans, issue reinsurance policies, distribute funds and execute its investment strategy. in addition, newsource may become subject to regulation and supervision by insurance authorities in any other jurisdictions in which it operates. failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on newsource's ability to do business or certain activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which it operates and could subject newsource to fines and other sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on newsource's business and adversely impact newsource's ability to pay the preferred dividend on our preferred stock and the value of our investment in newsource. difficulties in selling single-family rental assets could limit our flexibility. federal tax laws may limit our ability to earn a gain on the sale of a single-family rental asset or group of rental assets if we are found to have held or acquired the single-family rental asset or group of assets with the intent to resell, and this limitation may affect our ability to sell single-family rental assets without adversely affecting returns to our shareholders. this will particularly adversely affect us with properties that do not meet our rental property standards. in addition, real estate can at times be difficult to sell quickly at prices we find acceptable. these potential difficulties in selling real estate in our markets may limit our ability to change or reduce the single-family rental assets in our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. a significant uninsured property or liability loss could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. if an uninsured liability to a third party were to occur, we would incur the cost of defense and settlement with or court ordered damages to that third party. we will carry commercial general liability insurance and property insurance with respect to our single-family rental assets on terms we consider commercially reasonable. there are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses arising from acts of war) that are not insured, in full or in part, because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it economically impractical. if an uninsured property loss or a property loss in excess of insured limits were to occur, we could lose our capital invested in a single-family rental asset or group of rental assets as well as the anticipated future revenues from such single-family rental asset or group of assets. we would also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the asset or group of assets, if any. a significant uninsured property or liability loss could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition and results of operations. a significant number of our single-family rental assets will be part of home owners' associations which we refer to as “hoas”. we and our renters will be subject to the rules and regulations of such hoas which may be arbitrary or restrictive and violations of such rules may subject us to additional fees and penalties and litigation with such hoas which may be costly. a significant number of our single-family rental assets, when acquired, will be subject to hoas which are private entities that regulate the activities of and levy assessments on properties in a residential subdivision. some of the hoas that will govern our single-family assets may enact onerous or arbitrary rules that restrict our ability to renovate, market or lease our single-family rental assets or require us to renovate or maintain such assets at standards or costs that are in excess of our planned operating budgets. such rules may include requirements for landscaping, limitations on signage promoting a property 10 (table of contents) for lease or sale or the use of specific construction materials to be used in renovations. some hoas also impose limits on the number of property owners who may rent their homes which, if met or exceeded, may cause us to incur additional costs to sell the affected single-family rental asset and opportunity costs of lost rental income. furthermore, many hoas impose restrictions on the conduct of occupants of homes and the use of common areas, and we may have renters who violate these hoa rules for which we may be liable as the property owner. additionally, the boards of directors of the hoas that will govern our single-family rental assets may not make important disclosures or may block our access to hoa records, initiate litigation, restrict our ability to sell, impose assessments or arbitrarily change the hoa rules. we may be unaware of or unable to review or comply with certain hoa rules before acquiring a single-family rental asset, and any such excessively restrictive or arbitrary regulations may cause us to sell such asset, prevent us from renting such asset or otherwise reduce our cash flow from such asset. any of the above-described occurrences may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we likely will incur costs due to class actions and/or tenant rights and consumer demands or litigation. there are numerous tenants' rights and consumer rights organizations throughout the country. as we grow in scale, we may attract attention from some of these organizations and become a target of legal demands or litigation. many such consumer organizations have become more active and better funded in connection with mortgage foreclosure-related issues and the increased market for single-family rentals arising from displaced home ownership. some of these organizations may shift their litigation, lobbying, fundraising and grass roots organizing activities to focus on landlord-tenant issues. additional actions may include eviction proceedings and other landlord-tenant disputes, challenges to title and ownership rights (including actions brought by prior owners alleging wrongful foreclosure by their lender or servicer) and issues with local housing officials arising from the condition or maintenance of a single-family rental asset. while we intend to conduct our rental business lawfully and in compliance with applicable landlord-tenant and consumer laws, such organizations might work in conjunction with trial and pro bono lawyers in one state or multiple states to attempt to bring claims against us on a class action basis for damages or injunctive relief. we cannot anticipate what form such legal actions might take or what remedies they may seek. additionally, these organizations may lobby local county and municipal attorneys or state attorneys general to pursue enforcement or litigation against us or may lobby state and local legislatures to pass new laws and regulations to constrain our business operations. if they are successful in any such endeavors, they could directly limit and constrain our business operations and impose on us significant litigation expenses including settlements to avoid continued litigation or judgments for damages or injunctions. any of the above-described occurrences may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may incur costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance. under various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and ordinances, we may be required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at our single-family rental assets (including in some cases natural substances such as methane and radon gas) and may be held liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for property, personal injury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of the contamination. these damages and costs may be substantial and may exceed any insurance coverage we have for such events. the presence of such substances or the failure to properly remediate the contamination may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected single-family rental asset. in addition, some environmental laws create or allow a government agency to impose a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of the contamination. inflation or deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. increased inflation could have an adverse impact on interest rates, property management expenses and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rental and other revenue. conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income. accordingly, inflation or deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our real properties will be subject to property and other taxes that may increase over time. we will be responsible for property taxes for our single-family rental assets, when acquired which may increase as tax rates change and as properties are reassessed by taxing authorities. if we fail to pay any such taxes, the applicable taxing authorities may place a lien on the property and the property may be subject to a tax sale. any such occurrence may adversely affect our financial condition and results from operations. 11 (table of contents) risks related to conflicts of interest we could have conflicts with altisource, ocwen, home loan servicing solutions, ltd., which we refer to as “hlss”, and aamc, and the chairman and other members of our board of directors could have conflicts of interest due to his/their relationship with altisource, ocwen, hlss and aamc which may be resolved in a manner adverse to us. conflicts may arise between altisource and us as a result of our ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses. altisource will provide us with residential property management, leasing and construction management services for our acquired reo properties. in addition, we may enter into further agreements with altisource involving purchase of assets, joint venture relationships, financing arrangements and other business transactions. because both of our businesses involve construction, leasing and property management services, altisource's interests may conflict with ours particularly if altisource deploys its resources in favor of its other clients. conflicts may arise between ocwen and us as a result of our ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses. ocwen will perform substantially all mortgage loan servicing functions relating to our acquisition and ownership of mortgage loans. in addition, we may enter into further agreements with ocwen involving purchase of assets, joint venture relationships, financing arrangements and other business transactions. because we outsource our servicing function to ocwen and ocwen services mortgages for its own clients, ocwen's interests may conflict with ours particularly if is resources are deployed in favor of its other clients. altisource, ocwen, and hlss are not limited in their ability to compete with us. we will seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with them and through oversight by independent members of our board of directors. however, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective, that we will be able to resolve all conflicts with altisource, ocwen, and hlss or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with third parties. the chairman of our board of directors is the chairman of the board of directors of altisource, ocwen, hlss and aamc. as a result, he has obligations to us as well as to altisource, ocwen, hlss and aamc and may have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and altisource, ocwen, hlss or aamc, as the case may be. david reiner is a member of our board of directors and a member of the board of directors for hlss. as a result, he has obligations to us as well as to hlss and may potentially have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and hlss. our chairman currently owns a substantial amount of altisource, ocwen, hlss, aamc and our common stock and altisource and ocwen stock options. in addition, certain of our directors in the future also may own altisource and/or ocwen common stock and stock options due to similar current relationships with altisource and ocwen. such ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when the chairman of our board of directors and our directors are faced with decisions that involve us, altisource, ocwen, hlss, aamc or any of their respective subsidiaries. our directors have the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as ours. our directors may have other investments and business activities in addition to their interest in us. under the provisions of our charter and bylaws, our directors have no duty to abstain from exercising the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as ours or employ or otherwise engage any of our directors. if any of our directors who are also directors, officers or employees of altisource, ocwen, aamc, hlss or any other company acquires knowledge of a corporate opportunity or is offered a corporate opportunity outside of his capacity as one of our directors, then our bylaws provide that such director will be permitted to pursue that corporate opportunity independently of us, so long as the director has acted in good faith. our bylaws provide that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, such a director will be deemed to have satisfied his fiduciary duties to us and will not be liable to us for pursuing such a corporate opportunity independently of us. this may create actual or potential conflicts of interest between us and certain of our directors and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our shareholders. as of this date, none of our directors is directly involved as a director, officer or employee of a business that competes with us, but there can be no assurance that will remain unchanged in the future. 12 (table of contents) risks related to our qualification as a reit failure to qualify as a reit would have significant adverse consequences to us. we intend to elect and qualify to be taxed as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes beginning the year ended december 31, 2013. our qualification as a reit will depend upon our ability to meet, on an ongoing basis, requirements regarding our organization and ownership, distributions of our income, the nature and diversification of our income and assets and other tests imposed by the code. we may fail to satisfy the reit requirements in the future. if the irs determines that we do not qualify as a reit or if we qualify as a reit and subsequently lose our reit status, we will be subject to serious tax consequences that would cause a significant reduction in our cash available for distribution for each of the years involved. compliance with reit requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities which may hinder or delay our ability to meet our investment objectives and reduce your overall return. to qualify as a reit, we are required at all times to satisfy certain tests relating to, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the ownership of our stock and amounts we distribute to our shareholders. compliance with the reit requirements may impair our ability to maximize profits. for example, we may be required to pay distributions to shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. compliance with reit requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. to qualify as a reit, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of our assets must consist of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. the remainder of our investments in securities other than qualified real estate assets and government securities generally cannot include more than 10% of the voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. additionally, no more than 5% of the value of our assets other than government securities and qualified real estate assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable reit subsidiaries. in order to satisfy these requirements, we may be forced to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. the irs may deem the gains from sales of our properties to be subject to a 100% prohibited transaction tax. from time to time, we may be forced to sell assets to satisfy our reit distribution requirements, to satisfy other reit requirements or for other purposes. the irs may deem one or more sales of our properties to be “prohibited transactions.” if the irs takes the position that we have engaged in a “prohibited transaction” (i.e., if we sell a property held by us primarily for sale in the ordinary course of our trade or business), the gain we recognize from such sale would be subject to a 100% tax. the code sets forth a safe harbor for reits that wish to sell property without risking the imposition of the 100% tax; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to qualify for the safe harbor. we do not intend to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business; however, there is no assurance that our position will not be challenged by the irs especially if we make frequent sales or sales of property in which we have short holding periods. in the future, we could be required to sell assets, borrow funds, make a portion of our distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution or issue debt securities to fund our distributions. our board of directors has the sole discretion to determine the timing, form and amount of any distributions to our shareholders, and the amount of such distributions may be limited. in the future, we could be required to sell assets, borrow funds or make a portion of our distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution or distribution of debt securities. to the extent that we are required to sell assets in adverse market conditions or borrow funds at unfavorable rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our board of directors will make determinations regarding distributions based upon various factors including our earnings, our financial condition, our liquidity, our debt and preferred stock covenants, maintenance of our reit qualification, applicable provisions of the mgcl and other factors, as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. 13 (table of contents) we may be subject to tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow and our ability to pay distributions to you even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes. we may be subject to federal and state taxes on our income or property even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes including: • in order to qualify as a reit, we are required to distribute annually at least 90% of our reit taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction or net capital gain) to our shareholders. if we satisfy the distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our reit taxable income, we will be subject to corporate income tax on the undistributed income; • we will be required to pay a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which the distributions we make to our shareholders in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from previous years; • if we have net income from the sale of foreclosure property (defined below) that we hold primarily for sale to renters in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, we will be required to pay a tax on that income at the highest corporate income tax rate and • any gain we recognize on the sale of a property, other than foreclosure property, that we hold primarily for sale to renters in the ordinary course of business would be subject to the 100% “prohibited transaction” tax. any such additional tax liabilities would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. generally, ordinary dividends payable by reits do not qualify for reduced u.s. federal income tax rates. the maximum u.s. federal income tax rate for “qualifying dividends” payable by u.s. corporations to individual u.s. shareholders is 20% as of january 1, 2013. however, ordinary dividends payable by reits are generally not eligible for the reduced rates and generally are taxed at ordinary income rates (the maximum individual rate being 35% through 2012). the limits on the percentage of shares of our common stock that any person may own may discourage a takeover or business combination that could otherwise benefit our shareholders. our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a reit. unless exempted by our board of directors (as is the case for william c. erbey), no person may own more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding capital stock. a person that did not acquire more than 9.8% of our shares may become subject to our charter restrictions if repurchases by us cause such person's holdings to exceed 9.8% of our outstanding shares. any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of our board of directors will be void or will result in those shares being transferred to a charitable trust, and the person who acquired such excess shares will not be entitled to any distributions thereon or to vote those excess shares. our 9.8% ownership limitation may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for our shareholders. we may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes. at any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing reits or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. we cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. we and our shareholders could be adversely affected by any such change in or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. risks related to our common stock the market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. as a development stage company, the prices at which our common stock trades have and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to many things, including but not limited to: •quarterly variations in actual or anticipated results of our operations; 14 (table of contents) •changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; •actions or announcements by our competitors; •regulatory actions; •lack of liquidity; •changes in the financial condition or stock price of residential; •changes in the market outlook for the real estate and lending industries; •technology changes in our business and •departure of our key personnel. the market prices of securities of public reits have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of these companies. these market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our shares of common stock. furthermore, our small size and different investment characteristics may not appeal to our current investor base that may seek to dispose of large amounts of our common stock following the separation date. there is no assurance that there will be sufficient buying interest to offset those sales, and, accordingly, the price of our common stock could be depressed and/or experience periods of high volatility. an active trading market for our common stock may never develop. our shares of common stock began trading “regular way” on the new york stock exchange under the symbol “resi” on december 24, 2012. however, an active trading market for our common stock may not develop, and if an active trading market does develop, it may not be sustained. accordingly, the ability to sell our common stock, or the prices that may be obtained for such common stock, will depend on the existence and liquidity of an active trading market of our common stock. item 1b. unresolved