item 1a.    risk factors  you should carefully consider the risks below, together with all the other information included in this form 10-k, in evaluating us and our ordinary shares. if any of the risks below actually occurs, our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. any such adverse effect may cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline, and as a result, you could lose all or part of your investment in us. our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not known to us or risks that we currently believe to be immaterial. risks related to our business our global operations subject us to economic risks. we are incorporated in ireland and operate in countries worldwide. our global operations depend on products manufactured, purchased and sold in the u.s. and internationally, including in europe, china, australia, mexico, venezuela and turkey. accordingly, we are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including: • changes in laws and regulations or imposition of currency restrictions and other restraints in various jurisdictions; • limitation of ownership rights, including expropriation of assets by a local government, and limitation on the ability to repatriate earnings; • sovereign debt crises and currency instability in developed and developing countries; • imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas; • difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; • difficulty in enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-u.s. legal systems; • national and international conflict, including war, civil disturbances and terrorist acts; and • economic downturns and social and political instability.  13 table of contents these risks could increase our cost of doing business internationally, increase our counterparty risk, disrupt our operations, disrupt the ability of suppliers and customers to fulfill their obligations and limit our ability to sell products in certain markets. our business relies on the commercial and residential construction and remodeling markets. we primarily rely on the commercial and residential construction and remodeling markets, which are marked by cyclicality based on overall economic conditions. weakness or instability in these markets may cause current and potential customers to delay or choose not to make purchases, which could negatively impact the demand for our products and services. our growth is dependent, in part, on the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services. we must develop and commercialize new products and services in order to remain competitive in our current and future markets and in order to continue to grow our business. we cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, if ever, or, if commercialized, will result in returns greater than our investment. investment in a product or service could divert our attention and resources from other projects that become more commercially viable in the market. we also cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be accepted by the market. changes in customer preferences and the inability to maintain beneficial relationships with large customers could adversely affect our business. we have significant customers, particularly major retailers, although no one customer represented more than 10% of combined net sales in 2013, 2012 or 2011. the loss or material reduction of business, the lack of success of sales initiatives or changes in customer preferences or loyalties for our products related to any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, major customers who are volume purchasers are much larger than us and have strong bargaining power with suppliers. this limits our ability to recover cost increases through higher selling prices. furthermore, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on sales. our brands are important assets of our businesses and violation of our trademark rights by imitators could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. our brands and trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to our success and competitive position. unauthorized use of our trademarks may not only erode sales of our products, but may also cause significant damage to our brand name and reputation, interfere with relationships with our customers and increase litigation costs. there can be no assurance that our on-going effort to protect our brand and trademark rights will prevent all violations. currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. see “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk.” approximately 36% of our 2013 net revenues were derived outside the u.s., and we expect sales to non-u.s. customers to continue to represent a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues. although we may enter into currency exchange contracts to reduce our risk related to currency exchange fluctuations, changes in the relative fair values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a material impact on our results of operations. because we do not hedge against all of our currency exposure, our business will continue to be susceptible to currency fluctuations. we also translate assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies into u.s. dollars for our combined and consolidated financial statements based on applicable exchange rates. consequently, fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar compared to other currencies will have a material impact on the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. our business strategy includes making acquisitions and investments that complement our existing business. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. we will continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of products and services offerings. we cannot assure you that we will identify or  14 table of contents successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future, nor can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expensess. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: • diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; • difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; • difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; • inability to obtain regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; • potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of us; • assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and • dilution of interests of holders of our ordinary shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities. we may also expand through acquisitions or investments into international markets in which we may have limited experience or are required to rely on business partners. in addition to the risks outlined above, expansion into international markets may require us to compete with local businesses with greater knowledge of the market, including the tastes and preferences of customers, and businesses with dominant market shares. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly, integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations or effectively compete in new markets we enter. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. our operational excellence efforts may not achieve the improvements we expect. we utilize a number of tools to improve operational efficiency and productivity. implementation of new processes to our operations could cause disruptions and there is no assurance that all of our planned operational excellence projects will be fully implemented, or if implemented will realize the expected improvements. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our business. we are currently and may in the future become involved in legal proceedings and disputes incidental to the operation of our business. our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, environmental matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. as required by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ("gaap"), we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other contingencies may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and we may be required to make additional material payments. allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties could negatively affect us. we may be subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property rights by third parties. in particular, we often compete in areas having extensive intellectual property rights owned by others and we have become subject to claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights of others. in general, if it is determined that one or more of our technologies, products or services infringes the intellectual property rights owned by others, we may be required to cease marketing those services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost or to take other actions to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights. the litigation process is costly and subject to inherent uncertainties, and we may not prevail in litigation matters regardless of the merits of our position. adverse intellectual property litigation or claims of infringement against us may become extremely disruptive if the plaintiffs succeed in blocking the trade of our products and services and may have a material adverse effect on our business.   our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. we are subject to regulation under a variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies including laws related to anti-corruption, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. we cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. any improper conduct could damage our reputation and subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties,  15 table of contents material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence. we may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems. we rely extensively on information technology systems to manage and operate our business. if these systems cease to function properly or if these systems do not provide the anticipated benefits, our ability to manage our operations could be impaired. we currently rely on a single vendor for many of the critical elements of our global information technology infrastructure and its failure to provide effective support for such infrastructure could negatively impact our business and financial results. we have outsourced many of the critical elements of our global information technology infrastructure to a third-party service provider in order to achieve efficiencies. if the service provider does not perform or does not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected efficiencies and may have to incur additional costs to address failures in providing service by the service provider. depending on the function involved, such non-performance, ineffective performance or failures of service may lead to business disruptions, processing inefficiencies or security breaches. our information technology infrastructure is important to our business and data security breaches or disruptions of such infrastructure could negatively impact our business and financial results. our information technology infrastructure is subject to cyber-attacks and unauthorized security intrusions. despite instituting security policies and business continuity plans, our systems and networks may be vulnerable to system damage, malicious attacks from hackers, employee errors or misconduct, viruses, power and utility outages, and other catastrophic events that could cause significant harm to our business by negatively impacting our business operations, compromising the security of our proprietary information and exposing us to litigation that could adversely affect our reputation. commodity shortages and price increases could negatively affect our financial results. we rely on suppliers to secure commodities, including steel, zinc, brass and other non-ferrous metals, required for the manufacture of our products. a disruption of deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. we believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. nonetheless, the unavailability of some commodities could have a material adverse impact on our business. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services, and we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers. we do not currently hedge against this volatility. the pricing of some commodities we use is based on market prices. to mitigate this exposure, we may use annual and multi-year fixed price contracts to minimize the impact of inflation and to benefit from deflation. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. at december 31, 2013, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled approximately $505 million and $9 million, respectively. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we periodically assess these assets to determine whether they are impaired. negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected changes or planned changes in use of assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairment charges. in particular, our asia pacific - other reporting unit had $57 million of goodwill and an estimated fair value that exceeded its carrying value by approximately 7% at december 31, 2013. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. our ability to successfully grow our business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, our sales force and other personnel, including the ability of our sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. we must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize our ability to grow and expand our business.  16 table of contents our operations are subject to regulatory risks. our u.s. and non-u.s. operations are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including fire and building codes and standards, environmental and health and safety. we have incurred, and will be required to continue to incur, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. changes to, or changes in interpretations of, current laws and regulations could require us to increase our compliance expenditures, cause us to significantly alter or discontinue offering existing products and services or cause us to develop new products and services. altering current products and services or developing new products and services to comply with changes in the applicable laws and regulations could require significant research and development investments, increase the cost of providing the products and services and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. we may not have been, or we may not at all times be, in full compliance with these laws and regulations. in the event a regulatory authority concludes that we are not or have not at all times been in full compliance with these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners of real property or operators of manufacturing facilities for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at such properties or at properties at which parties have disposed of hazardous substances. liability for investigative, removal and remedial costs under certain u.s. federal and state laws and certain non-u.s. laws are retroactive, strict and joint and several. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from u.s. and non-u.s. governmental agencies, including the u.s. environmental protection agency (the “epa”) and similar state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of current and formerly owned sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup and other possible remedial action. these agencies may require that we reimburse the government for its costs incurred at these sites or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and cleanup of these sites, including by providing compensation for natural resource damage claims from such sites. for more information, see “business - environmental regulation.” while we have planned for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws and have accrued for costs related to current remedial efforts, our costs of compliance, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances may exceed our estimates. we may also be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cost recovery actions for remediation of facilities in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. the capital and credit markets are important to our business. instability in u.s. and global capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate volatility, or reductions in the credit ratings assigned to us by independent ratings agencies could reduce our access to capital markets or increase the cost of funding our short and long term credit requirements. in particular, if we are unable to access capital and credit markets on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to make certain investments or fully execute our business plans and strategy. our suppliers and customers are also dependent upon the capital and credit markets. limitations on the ability of customers, suppliers or financial counterparties to access credit could lead to insolvencies of key suppliers and customers, limit or prevent customers from obtaining credit to finance purchases of our products and services and cause delays in the delivery of key products from suppliers. our operations in venezuela expose us to several risks. venezuela is currently experiencing significant political and civil unrest and economic instability, and in february 2013 the venezuelan government devalued its currency and the official exchange rate changed from 4.3 to 6.3 venezuelan bolivares fuertes (vef) to 1 u.s. dollar. we recognized a $6.2 million realized foreign currency loss related to the devaluation in the first quarter of 2013. when the government devalued the vef in february, 2013, it established a new auction-based exchange rate market program, referred to as sicad. the amount of transactions that have run through the sicad and restrictions around participation have limited our access to any foreign exchange rate other than the official rate to pay for imported goods and manage our local monetary asset balances. accordingly, all of our net monetary assets are measured at the official 6.3 exchange rate at december 31, 2013. in late january 2014, the venezuelan government made several announcements affecting currency exchange and other controls. although the official exchange rate remains at 6.3, the government announced that the exchange rate for certain foreign investments will move to the rate available on the sicad currency market, which in the last auction was 11.7 vef to 1 u.s. dollar. the impact  17 table of contents to us of a devaluation from the official exchange rate to the sicad market exchange rate would be a charge of approximately $10 million based on net financial asset balances as of december 31, 2013, however the charge could be higher if the sicad market exchange rate moves higher. there is considerable uncertainty as to the nature of transactions that will flow through sicad and how sicad will operate in the future, however we believe there is considerable risk that the official rate will be devalued further. further devaluation could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. this current state of affairs could lead to further devaluation of its currency, volatility of exchange rates, and disruption of the economy. if the current unrest and instability continues, our ability to acquire necessary goods from suppliers could be limited, our customers may not be able to fulfill their obligations, our ability to manufacture and sell products could be disrupted and our venezuelan operations could be adversely affected. risks related to our indebtedness our substantial leverage could harm our business by limiting our available cash and our access to additional capital and, to the extent of our variable rate indebtedness, exposing us to interest rate risk. we have approximately $1.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness at december 31, 2013. in addition, we have a senior secured revolving credit facility permitting borrowings of up to $500 million. this amount of indebtedness substantially increases our cash interest expense in future years compared to prior years and may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, restructuring and general corporate or other purposes, limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors. further volatility in the credit markets would adversely impact our ability to obtain favorable terms on financing in the future. in addition, a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations is dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures, payment of dividends, share repurchase programs and future business opportunities. we may be more vulnerable than a less leveraged company to a downturn in the general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. we may be vulnerable to interest rate increases, as certain of our borrowings, including those under our senior secured credit facilities, are at variable rates. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which actions may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. for more information see “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources.” if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends, sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. in the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. the terms of the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior notes contain customary financial covenants that may restrict our ability to use the proceeds from asset sales. we may not be able to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices we believe are fair, and proceeds that we do receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. despite our levels of indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. although the terms of the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior notes contain customary restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. in addition, our senior secured revolving credit facility permits borrowings of up to $500 million. if we incur additional debt above the levels we currently have, the risks associated with our leverage, including those described above, would increase.  18 table of contents the terms of our debt covenants could limit how we conduct our business and our ability to raise additional funds. the terms of the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior notes restrict us from taking certain actions that we may think are in the best interests of our shareholders. a breach of the covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the applicable indebtedness. as a result of these restrictions, we may be: • limited in how we conduct our business; • limited in our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to our shareholders; • unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or • unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. these restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our plans. these covenants and restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business, and may limit our ability to react to market conditions or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including general economic and credit conditions and industry downturns, and the other factors described in these “risk factors.” our variable rate indebtedness may expose us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt costs to increase significantly. a portion of our borrowings at december 31, 2013 are term loans with variable rates of interest which expose us to interest rate risks. we are exposed to the risk of rising interest rates to the extent that we fund our operations with short-term or variable-rate borrowings. at december 31, 2013, we have approximately $1.3 billion of aggregate debt outstanding, and this amount includes $1.0 billion of floating-rate term loans and $300 million of our fixed-rate senior notes. we have the ability to incur up to $500 million of additional floating-rate debt under our senior secured revolving credit facility. based on the amount of floating-rate debt outstanding at december 31, 2013, a 100 basis point increase in libor would result in an incremental annual interest expense of approximately $7.1 million. if the libor or other applicable base rates under our senior secured credit facilities increase in the future then the floating-rate debt could have a material effect on our interest expense. risks relating to the spin-off we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from our spin-off from ingersoll rand. as an independent, publicly-traded company, we believe that our business will benefit from, among other things, allowing us to better focus our financial and operational resources on our specific business, allowing our board of directors and management to design and implement corporate strategies and policies that are based primarily on the characteristics of our business, allowing us to more effectively respond to industry dynamics and allowing the creation of effective incentives for our management and employees that are more closely tied to our business performance. however, we may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent company in the time we expect, if at all. our accounting and other management systems may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we will be subject following the spin-off. our financial results were previously included within the consolidated results of ingersoll rand, and we believe that our financial reporting and internal controls were appropriate for those of subsidiaries of a public company. however, we were not directly subject to the reporting and other requirements of the securities exchange act, as amended (the “exchange act”). in connection with the spin-off, we are directly subject to reporting and other obligations under the exchange act. beginning with our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal year 2014, we will be required to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the “sarbanes-oxley act”) which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. these reporting and other obligations may place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting systems and resources. the exchange act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. under the sarbanes-oxley act, we are required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  19 table of contents we may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent company, and we may experience increased costs. we have historically operated as part of ingersoll rand’s corporate organization, and ingersoll rand has assisted us by providing certain corporate functions. ingersoll rand is obligated contractually to provide to us only those transition services specified in agreements we entered into with ingersoll rand. we may be unable to replace in a timely manner or on comparable terms the services or other benefits that ingersoll rand previously provided to us that are not specified in any transition services agreement. upon expiration of any transition services agreement, each of the services that are covered in the agreement will have to be provided internally or by third parties and we may be unable to replace those services in a timely manner or on comparable terms. in addition, if ingersoll rand does not continue to perform transition services and the other services that are called for under any transition services agreement, we may not be able to operate our business as effectively. our historical combined financial data are not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent, publicly-traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. the historical data we presented herein may not reflect what our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would have been had we been an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented or what our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be in the future when we are an independent company. this is primarily because: • ingersoll rand, or one of its affiliates, performed significant corporate functions for us, including tax and treasury administration and certain governance functions, including internal audit and external reporting. our historical statements reflect allocations of corporate expenses from ingersoll rand for these functions and may not reflect the costs we will incur for similar services in the future as an independent company. furthermore, we are responsible for the additional costs associated with being an independent, publicly-traded company, including costs related to corporate governance and external reporting. • our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, historically have been satisfied as part of the company-wide cash management practices of ingersoll rand. while our businesses have historically generated sufficient cash to finance our working capital and other cash requirements, we no longer have access to ingersoll rand’s cash pool. without the opportunity to obtain financing from ingersoll rand, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities or other arrangements. • other significant changes may occur in cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of our operating as a company separate from ingersoll rand. our historical financial data does not include an allocation of interest expense comparable to the on-going interest expense we will incur as part of the financing of the spin-off. after giving pro-forma effect to the spin-off, our interest expense would have been approximately $53 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 (compared to $10.2 million reflected in our historical financial statements). as an independent, publicly-traded company, we may not enjoy the same benefits that we did as a part of ingersoll rand. there is a risk that, by separating from ingersoll rand, we may become more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have been if we were still part of ingersoll rand. as part of ingersoll rand, we were able to enjoy certain benefits from ingersoll rand’s operating diversity, purchasing power and opportunities to pursue integrated strategies with ingersoll rand’s other businesses. as an independent, publicly-traded company, we do not have similar diversity or integration opportunities and may not have similar purchasing power or access to capital markets. as an independent, publicly-traded company, our capital structure and sources of liquidity changed significantly from our historical capital structure. we have $1.0 billion outstanding under our senior secured term loan facilities and $300 million of fixed rate senior notes, among other borrowings. the net proceeds of the senior notes and the senior secured credit facilities were distributed to ingersoll rand. as an independent, publicly-traded company, we will no longer participate in cash management and funding arrangements with ingersoll rand. instead, our ability to fund our capital needs depends on our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations, and to access our borrowing facilities and capital markets, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.  20 table of contents the ownership by our executive officers of ordinary shares, stock options or other stock-based awards of ingersoll rand may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. substantially all of our executive officers own ordinary shares of ingersoll rand, stock options to purchase ordinary shares of ingersoll rand or other ingersoll rand stock-based awards because of their former positions with ingersoll rand. the individual holdings of ordinary shares, stock options to purchase ordinary shares or other stock-based awards of ingersoll rand may be significant for some of these persons compared to their total assets. these equity interests may create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when these officers are faced with decisions that could benefit or affect the officers, as equity holders of ingersoll rand, in ways that do not benefit or affect us or our shareholders in the same manner. the one-time and ongoing costs of the spin-off may be greater than we expected. we have incurred and will continue to incur costs in connection with being a stand-alone public company that relate primarily to accounting, tax, legal and other professional costs; financing costs in connection with obtaining our financing as a stand-alone company; compensation, such as modifications to certain incentive awards upon completion of the spin-off; recruiting and relocation costs associated with hiring our senior management personnel; and costs to separate assets and information systems. these costs may be greater than anticipated. we may not be able to achieve a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate. we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in future years, because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the geographic mix of income and the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. additionally, the tax laws of ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. we may have been able to receive better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we receive in our agreements related to the spin-off. the agreements related to the spin-off, including the separation and distribution agreement, employee matters agreement, tax matters agreement, transition services agreement, agreements with respect to real estate and intellectual property matters and any other agreements, were negotiated in the context of the spin-off from ingersoll rand while we were still part of ingersoll rand. accordingly, these agreements may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. the terms of the agreements in the context of the spin-off are related to, among other things, allocations of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations among ingersoll rand and us. we might have received better terms under the agreements relating to the spin-off had they been negotiated with disinterested third parties who competed with each other to win our business than we received from ingersoll rand. in connection with the spin-off, ingersoll rand indemnified us for certain liabilities and we indemnified ingersoll rand for certain liabilities. if we are required to act on these indemnities to ingersoll rand, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. the ingersoll rand indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of liabilities for which it will be allocated responsibility, and ingersoll rand may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, the employee matters agreement and the tax matters agreement with ingersoll rand, ingersoll rand agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify ingersoll rand for certain liabilities, in each case for uncapped amounts. such indemnities may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the spin-off. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that ingersoll rand retained. further, the indemnity from ingersoll rand may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and ingersoll rand may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from ingersoll rand any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. if the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-off are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or ingersoll rand could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify ingersoll rand for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement. ingersoll rand has received an irs ruling substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of our ordinary shares, together with certain related transactions, qualify under sections 355 and 368(a) of the internal revenue code ("the code"),  21 table of contents with the result that ingersoll rand and ingersoll rand’s shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares (the "irs ruling"). the irs ruling also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the irs ruling, ingersoll rand received opinions from the law firm of simpson thacher & bartlett llp substantially to the effect that certain requirements, including certain requirements that the irs did not rule on, necessary to obtain tax-free treatment have been satisfied, such that the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes and certain other matters relating to the distribution, including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution, received tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. the receipt and effectiveness of the irs ruling and the opinions were conditions to the distribution that were satisfied or waived by ingersoll rand. the irs ruling and the opinions rely on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and ingersoll rand regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the irs ruling and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in shares or asset ownership after the distribution. a legal opinion represents the tax adviser’s best legal judgment, is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. in addition, the opinion will be based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distribution is determined to be taxable, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and our shareholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in addition, we or ingersoll rand could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution are taxable. in addition, under the terms of the tax matters agreement, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distribution by us or ingersoll rand, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us or ingersoll rand as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us or ingersoll rand, then we would be responsible for any taxes imposed on us or ingersoll rand as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. in addition, the amount of our shares that we can issue may be limited because the issuance of our shares may cause the distribution to be a taxable event for ingersoll rand under section 355(e) of the code, and under the tax matters agreement, we could be required to indemnify ingersoll rand for that tax. we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances following the distribution because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted after the distribution in order to preserve, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the distribution by ingersoll rand. even if the distribution otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code, it may result in a corporate-level taxable gain to ingersoll rand and certain of its affiliates under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our shares or ingersoll rand’s shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. any acquisitions or issuances of our shares or ingersoll rand’s shares within two years after the distribution will generally be presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or ingersoll rand may be able to rebut that presumption. to preserve the tax-free treatment to ingersoll rand of the distribution, under the tax matters agreement, we are prohibited from taking or failing to take any action that prevents the distribution and related transactions from being tax-free. further, for the two-year period following the distribution, without obtaining the consent of ingersoll rand, a private letter ruling from the irs or an unqualified opinion from a nationally recognized law firm or accounting firm, we are prohibited from, among other things: • approving or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 50% of our ordinary shares when combined with any other changes in ownership of our shares, • redeeming or repurchasing certain amounts of equity securities, • selling or otherwise disposing of substantially all of our assets, or • engaging in certain internal transactions. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. moreover, the tax matters agreement provides that we are responsible for any taxes imposed on ingersoll rand or any of its affiliates as a result of the failure of the distribution or the internal transactions to qualify for favorable treatment under the code unless such failure is attributable to certain actions taken after the distribution by ingersoll rand.  22 table of contents in february 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $200 million of our ordinary shares. due to these restrictions, we may not engage in privately negotiated transactions or acquire more than 20% of our outstanding shares within two years after the distribution. we believe that we will be able to execute the authorized share repurchases and preserve the tax-free treatment of the distribution. however, if we are unable to preserve the tax-free treatment, any taxes imposed on us could be significant. if the distribution is determined to be taxable for irish tax purposes, significant irish tax liabilities may arise. ingersoll rand has received an opinion of the irish revenue regarding the irish tax consequences of the distribution to the effect that certain reliefs and exemptions for corporate reorganizations apply. in addition to obtaining the opinion from irish revenue, ingersoll rand received an opinion from the law firm of arthur cox confirming the applicability of the relevant exemptions and reliefs to the distribution and that certain internal transactions will not trigger tax costs. these opinions rely on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and ingersoll rand regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the opinions, irish revenue could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions do not qualify for the relevant exemptions or reliefs if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. a legal opinion represents the tax adviser’s best legal judgment, is not binding on irish revenue or the courts and irish revenue or the courts may not agree with the legal opinion. in addition, the legal opinion was based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distribution ultimately is determined not to fall within certain exemptions or reliefs, the distribution could result in our shareholders having an irish tax liability as a result of the distribution (if a shareholder is an irish resident or holds shares in ingersoll rand in an irish branch or agency), or we or ingersoll rand could incur irish tax liabilities. in addition, under the terms of the tax matters agreement, in the event the distribution does not qualify for certain reliefs or exemptions, then we would be responsible for any taxes imposed on us or ingersoll rand as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. risks relating to our ordinary shares our share price may fluctuate significantly. our ordinary shares are listed on nyse under the ticker symbol “alle.” the market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; • success or failure of our business strategy; • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; • our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our ordinary shares; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; • investor perception of our company; • natural or other disasters that investors believe may affect us; • overall market fluctuations; • results from any material litigation or government investigations; • changes in laws or regulations affecting our business; and • general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares. in addition, when the market price of a company’s shares drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. a lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of management and other resources. we cannot assure you that we will continue to pay dividends on our ordinary shares, and our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares.  23 table of contents on february 11, 2014, our board of directors declared a $0.08 per ordinary share dividend payable on march 31, 2014 to shareholders of record at march 17, 2014. whether our board of directors continues to exercise its discretion to propose any dividends to holders of our ordinary shares will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, future prospects and capital requirements of our business, covenants associated with certain of our debt obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, income tax consequences, industry practice and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay a dividend. if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt-payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the board of directors, may be impaired and we may be required to attempt to restructure or refinance our debt, raise additional capital or take other actions such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or reducing our dividend. there can be no assurance, however, that any such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all. your percentage ownership in us may be diluted in the future. your percentage ownership in us may be diluted in the future because of additional equity issuances for acquisitions, strategic investments, capital markets transactions or otherwise, including equity awards that we expect to grant to our directors, officers and employees in the future. such issuances may have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, which could materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. in addition, some ingersoll rand equity awards held by our employees were converted into allegion equity awards in connection with the spin-off. we established equity incentive plans that provide for the grant of ordinary share-based equity awards to our directors, officers and other employees. under our incentive stock plan, the total number of ordinary shares authorized is 8.0 million, of which 5.0 million remains available as of december 31, 2013 for future incentive awards. if securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our ordinary shares depends, to some extent, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us and our business. we do not have any control over these analysts and the reports they issue. if our financial performance fails to meet analyst estimates or one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or negatively change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. if one or more analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. risks related to our incorporation in ireland irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. as such, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on u.s. federal or state civil liability laws, including the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. in addition, irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. also, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash. however, we have opted out of these preemption rights in our articles of association as permitted under irish company law. irish law provides that this opt-out expires after five years unless renewed by a special resolution of the shareholders. these authorizations must be renewed by the shareholders every five years and we cannot guarantee that these authorizations will always be approved.  24 table of contents changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under the tax laws of many jurisdictions or adverse determinations by taxing authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. the realization of any tax benefit related to our incorporation and tax residence in ireland could be impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the tax authorities of many jurisdictions. from time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the tax laws of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that if enacted could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate. for instance, recent u.s. legislative proposals would broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a u.s. resident for u.s. tax purposes, which would significantly diminish the realization of any tax benefit related to our incorporation in ireland. there are other recent u.s. legislative proposals that could modify or eliminate the tax deductibility of various currently deductible payments, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. moreover, other u.s. legislative proposals could have a material adverse impact on us by overriding certain tax treaties and limiting the treaty benefits on certain payments by our u.s. subsidiaries to our non-u.s. affiliates, which could increase our tax liability. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislation in any jurisdiction. while we monitor proposals that would materially impact our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax law is challenged and determined to be incorrect. in particular, any changes and/or differing interpretations of applicable tax law that have the effect of disregarding our incorporation in ireland, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments, or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, could subject us to increased taxation. dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. in certain circumstances, we are required to deduct irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. in the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the united states will not be subject to irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain irish dividend withholding tax forms. however, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could discourage the investment in our stock and adversely impact on the price of our shares. dividends received by our shareholders could be subject to irish income tax. dividends paid in respect of our shares generally are not subject to irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from irish dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in allegion. our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in allegion. certain provisions in our articles of association, among other things, could prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our ordinary shares. our memorandum and articles of association contain provisions deter takeover practices, inadequate takeover bids and unsolicited offers. these provisions include, amongst others: • a provision of our articles of association which generally prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder (being (i) the beneficial owner of the relevant percentage of our voting shares or (ii) an affiliate or associate of us that has at any time within the last five years been the beneficial owner of the relevant percentage of our voting shares), subject to certain exceptions; • rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; • the right of our board of directors to issue preferred shares without shareholder approval in certain circumstances, subject to applicable law; and • the ability of our board of directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors in certain circumstances. we believe these provisions will provide some protection to our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics. these provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may  25 table of contents be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is in our best interests and our shareholders. these provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. in addition, several mandatory provisions of irish law could prevent or delay an acquisition of us. for example, irish law does not permit shareholders of an irish public limited company to take action by written consent with less than unanimous consent. we also will be subject to various provisions of irish law relating to mandatory bids, voluntary bids, requirements to make a cash offer and minimum price requirements, as well as substantial acquisition rules and rules requiring the disclosure of interests in our shares in certain circumstances. also, irish companies, including us, may alter their memorandum of association and articles of association only with the approval of at least 75% of the votes of the company’s shareholders cast in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the company. the agreements that we entered into with ingersoll rand in connection with the spin-off generally require ingersoll rand’s consent to any assignment by us of our rights and obligations under the agreements. the consent and termination rights set forth in these agreements might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that shareholders may consider favorable. moreover, an acquisition or further issuance of our ordinary shares after the spin-off could trigger the application of section 355(e) of the code, even if the distribution and certain related transactions undertaken in connection therewith otherwise qualify for tax-free treatment. under section 355(e) of the code, we and/or ingersoll rand could incur tax upon certain transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our ordinary shares or ingersoll rand ordinary shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. the process for determining whether an acquisition or issuance triggering these provisions has occurred is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation. any acquisitions or issuances of our ordinary shares or ingersoll rand ordinary shares within two years after the distribution are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or ingersoll rand, as applicable, may be able to rebut that presumption. moreover, under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with ingersoll rand, we are restricted from engaging in certain transactions within two years of the distribution which potentially could trigger application of section 355(e) of the code. during such period, these restrictions may limit the ability that we, or a potential acquirer of allegion, have to pursue certain strategic transactions that might increase the value of our ordinary shares. item 1b.    unresolved