item 1a. risk factors this report and other documents we file with the sec contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our beliefs and our management's assumptions. these statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties facing our business. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may in the future materially and adversely affect our business, operations, liquidity and stock price. our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval. our business is subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including the ema. we are required in the united states and in foreign countries to obtain approval from regulatory authorities before we can manufacture, market and sell our products. once approved, the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial authority to require additional testing, perform inspections, change product labeling or mandate withdrawals of our products. failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative and/or judicially imposed sanctions. the sanctions could include the fda’s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawals of approvals, delay or suspension of clinical trials, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of our operations, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution. for example, we received a warning letter from the fda dated january 27, 2014, describing issues related to the device constituent parts and certain aspects of the underlying quality systems of our combination products. we are working with the fda to address the concerns raised in the letter. obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval has been and will continue to be increasingly difficult, time-consuming and costly. there may be situations in which demonstrating the efficacy and safety of a product candidate may not be sufficient to gain regulatory approval unless superiority to comparative products can be shown. also, legislative bodies or regulatory agencies could enact new laws or regulations or change existing laws or regulations at any time, which could affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products. for example, the eu is in the process of finalizing new requirements related to how clinical trials are conducted. while the aim of the new requirements is improvement in operational efficiency and a streamlining of the overall clinical trial authorization process, the new requirements also provide for increased transparency of clinical trial results and quality data relating to the products used for such trials. it remains to be seen how the ema and the individual eu member states will implement the new process and how it will impact companies conducting clinical trials and their ability to protect competitively-sensitive information contained in their approval applications. failure to comply with new laws or regulations could result in significant monetary penalties as well as reputational and other harms. we are unable to predict when and whether any further changes to laws or regulatory policies affecting our business could occur, such as efforts to reform medical device regulation or the pedigree requirements for medical products or to implement new requirements for combination products, and whether such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. regulatory authorities may also question the sufficiency for approval of the endpoints we select for our clinical trials. for example, questions remain about regulatory authorities’ views regarding the adequacy for approval of therapeutic oncology products that have demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in endpoints such as pfs but have not shown a statistically significant improvement in os. a number of our products and product candidates have been evaluated in clinical trials using endpoints other than os, such as pfs and bone-metastasis-free survival (bmfs). the use of endpoints such as pfs or bmfs, in the absence of other measures of clinical benefit, may not be sufficient for approval even when such results are statistically significant. regulatory authorities could also add new requirements, such as the completion of an outcomes study or a meaningful portion of an outcomes study, as conditions for obtaining an indication. for example, the fda has indicated that the filing of our bla for evolocumab is dependent on us having achieved appropriate progress in our ongoing cardiovascular outcomes study. the imposition of additional requirements may delay our clinical development and regulatory filing efforts, and delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for new product candidates, new indications for existing products or maintenance of our current labels. some of our products are approved by u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities on a conditional basis with full approval conditioned upon fulfilling the requirements of regulators. for example, in july 2012 our subsidiary onyx pharmaceuticals received accelerated approval for kyprolis® in the united states, with full approval conditioned on conducting additional clinical trials of the use of kyprolis® as a therapy in treating multiple myeloma. regulatory authorities are placing greater focus on monitoring products originally approved on an accelerated or conditional basis and on whether the sponsors of such products have met the conditions of the accelerated or conditional approvals. if we are unable to fulfill the requirements of regulators that were conditions of our products' accelerated or conditional approval and/or if regulators re-evaluate the data or risk-benefit profile of our product 21 in connection with a renewal assessment, our conditional approval may not be renewed or we may not receive full approval for these products or may be required to change the products' labeled indications or even withdraw the products from the market. safety problems or signals can arise as our product candidates are evaluated in clinical trials or as our marketed products are used in clinical practice. we are required to communicate to regulatory agencies adverse events reported to us regarding our products. regulatory agencies periodically perform inspections of our pharmacovigilance processes, including our adverse event reporting. in 2012, new pharmacovigilance legislation became effective in the eu that enhanced the authority of european regulators to require companies to conduct additional post-approval clinical efficacy and safety studies and increased the burden on sponsor companies in terms of adverse event management and reporting and safety data analyses. if regulatory agencies determine that we or other parties (including our independent clinical trial investigators or our licensees) have not complied with the applicable reporting or other pharmacovigilance requirements, we may become subject to additional inspections, warning letters or other enforcement actions, including monetary fines and other penalties. our product candidates and products can also be affected by safety problems or signals occurring with respect to products that are similar to ours and that implicate an entire class of products. further, as a result of clinical trials, including sub-analyses or meta-analyses of earlier clinical trials (a meta-analysis involves the use of various statistical methods to combine results from previous separate but related studies), concerns may arise about the sufficiency of the data or studies underlying a product’s approved label. such actual or perceived safety problems or concerns can lead to: • revised or restrictive labeling for our products; • requirement of risk management activities or other regulatory agency compliance actions related to the promotion and sale of our products; • mandated post-marketing commitments or pharmacovigilance programs for our approved products; • product recalls of our approved products; • revocation of approval for our products from the market completely, or within particular therapeutic areas; • increased timelines or delays in being approved by the fda or other regulatory bodies; and/or • fewer treatments or product candidates being approved by regulatory bodies. for example, beginning in 2006, adverse safety results involving esas were observed and since that time our esas have been the subject of ongoing review and scrutiny. reviews by regulatory authorities of the risk-benefit profile of esas has resulted in changes to esa labeling and usage in both the oncology and nephrology clinical settings. in addition to our innovative products, we are working to develop and commercialize biosimilar versions of six products currently manufactured, marketed and sold by other pharmaceutical companies. (see item 1. business — research and development and selected product candidates — amgen development of biosimilars.) in many markets there is not yet a legislative or regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilars. in the united states, the u.s. healthcare reform law provided for such a pathway; while the fda is working to implement it, significant questions remain as to how products will be approved under the pathway. (see we expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars.) delays or uncertainties in the development of such pathways could result in delays or difficulties in getting our products approved by regulatory authorities, subject us to unanticipated development costs or otherwise reduce the value of the investments we have made in the biosimilars area. some of our products are used with drug delivery or companion diagnostic devices which have their own regulatory, manufacturing and other risks. some of our products or product candidates may be used in combination with a drug delivery device, such as an injector or other delivery system. our product candidates or expanded indications of our products used with such drug delivery devices may not be approved or may be substantially delayed in receiving regulatory approval if such devices do not gain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance. where approval of the product and device is sought under a single marketing drug application, the increased complexity of the review process may also delay receipt of regulatory approval. in addition, some of these drug delivery devices may be provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party companies. we are dependent on the sustained cooperation and effort of those third-party companies both to supply the devices and, in some cases, to conduct the studies required for approval or clearance by the applicable regulatory agencies. we are also dependent on those third-party companies continuing to meet the applicable regulatory and other requirements to maintain that approval or clearance once it has been received. failure to supply the devices, delays in or failure of the amgen or third-party studies, or failure of amgen or the third-party company to obtain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance of the devices could result in increased development costs, delays in or failure to obtain regulatory approval and/or associated delays in a product candidate reaching the market or the expansion of existing product labels for new indications. loss of regulatory approval or clearance of a device that is used with our product may also result in the removal of our product from the market. 22 similarly, some of our products or product candidates may be used in combination with an in vitro companion diagnostic device, such as a test kit. in some cases, our product candidates or expanded indications of our products used with in vitro companion diagnostic devices may not be approved or may be substantially delayed in receiving regulatory approval if such devices do not gain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance. for example, the fda has informed us that its approval of vectibix® for the first- and second-line mcrc indications we are seeking will be contingent upon approval of the companion diagnostic device being developed in collaboration with qiagen n.v., which identifies a patient's kras gene status. as with drug delivery devices used with our products, our ability to get and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals for our products or product candidates used with in vitro companion diagnostic devices can be substantially dependent on whether the manufacturers of such devices meet their contractual responsibilities to us and/or their obligations to regulatory authorities. failures by these manufacturers can also result in the significant delays and added costs described above, or even result in the removal of our product from the market. we may not be able to develop commercial products. successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few r&d projects produce a commercial product. we intend to continue to make significant r&d investments. product candidates or new indications for existing products (collectively, “product candidates”) that appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results, for reasons that could include changes in the standard of care of medicine; • the product candidate was not effective or more effective than currently available therapies in treating a specified condition or illness; • the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics; • the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or animals; • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the fda or ema, did not approve our product candidate for an intended use; • the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize; • the biosimilar product candidate fails to demonstrate the requisite biosimilarity to the applicable reference product, or is otherwise determined to be unacceptable for purposes of safety or efficacy, to gain approval under the biosimilar pathway; • other parties have or may have proprietary rights relating to our product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all; • we and certain of our licensees, partners or independent investigators may fail to effectively conduct clinical development or clinical manufacturing activities; and • the regulatory pathway to approval for product candidates is uncertain or not well-defined. several of our product candidates have failed or been discontinued at various stages in the product development process. inability to bring a product to market or a significant delay in the expected approval and related launch date of a new product for any of the reasons discussed could potentially have a negative impact on our net sales and earnings and could result in a significant impairment of in-process research and development (ipr&d) or other intangible assets. we must conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications. before we can sell any products, we must conduct clinical trials to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. the results of those clinical trials are used as the basis to obtain approval from regulatory authorities such as the fda and ema. (see our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval.) we are required to conduct clinical trials using an appropriate number of trial sites and patients to support the product label claims. the length of time, number of trial sites and patients required for clinical trials vary substantially and therefore, we may spend several years and incur substantial expense in completing certain clinical trials. we may have difficulty finding a sufficient number of clinical trial sites and subjects to participate in our clinical trials, particularly if competitors are conducting similar clinical trials in certain patient populations. delays in planned clinical trials can result in increased development costs, delays in regulatory approvals, associated delays in product candidates reaching the market and revisions to existing product labels. 23 in addition, in order to increase the number of patients available for enrollment for our clinical trials, we have and will continue to open clinical sites and enroll patients in a number of new geographic locations where our experience conducting clinical trials is more limited, including russia, india, china, south korea, the philippines, singapore and some central and south american countries, either through utilization of third-party contract clinical trial providers entirely or in combination with local staff. conducting clinical trials in locations where we have limited experience requires substantial time and resources to identify and understand the unique regulatory environments of individual countries. further, we must ensure the timely production, distribution and delivery of the clinical supply of our product candidates to the numerous and varied clinical trial sites. if we fail to adequately manage the design, execution and regulatory aspects of our large, complex and regulatorily diverse clinical trials or manage the production or distribution of our clinical supply, corresponding regulatory approvals may be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our product candidates or could lose our ability to market existing products in certain therapeutic areas or altogether. if we are unable to market and sell our product candidates or are unable to obtain approvals in the timeframe needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we rely on independent third-party clinical investigators to recruit subjects and conduct clinical trials in accordance with the applicable study protocols and laws and regulations. further, we rely on unaffiliated third-party vendors to perform certain aspects of our clinical trial operations. we also may acquire companies that have ongoing clinical trials. these trials may not be conducted to the same standards as ours; however, once an acquisition has been completed we assume responsibility for the conduct of the trial, including any potential risks and liabilities associated with the past and prospective conduct of those trials. if regulatory authorities determine that we or others, including our licensees or the independent investigators selected by us or by a company we have acquired, have not complied with regulations in the r&d of a product candidate, a new indication for an existing product or information to support a current indication, they may refuse to accept trial data from the site, not approve the product candidate or new indication or maintain approval of the current indication in its current form or at all, and we would not be able to market and sell it. if we were unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some of our clinical trials involve drugs manufactured and marketed by other pharmaceutical companies. these drugs may be administered in a clinical trial in combination with one of our product candidates or in a head-to-head study comparing the products' relative efficacy and safety. in the event that any of these vendors or pharmaceutical companies have unforeseen issues that negatively impact the quality of their work or creates a shortage of supply, our ability to complete our applicable clinical trials and/or evaluate clinical results may also be negatively impacted. as a result, this could adversely affect our ability to file for, gain or maintain regulatory approvals worldwide on a timely basis, if at all. patients may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects in the course of our, our licensees, partners or independent investigators' clinical trials which could: • delay the clinical trial program; • require additional or longer trials to gain approval; • prohibit regulatory approval of our product candidates or new indications for existing products; and • render the product candidate commercially unfeasible or limit our ability to market existing products completely or in certain therapeutic areas. clinical trials must be designed based on the current standard of medical care. however in certain diseases, such as cancer, the standard of care is evolving rapidly. in these diseases, the duration of time needed to complete certain clinical trials may result in the design of such clinical trials being based on standards of medical care that are no longer the current standards when such trials are completed, limiting the utility and application of such trials. we may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for new product candidates, new indications for existing products or maintenance of our current labels on this basis. even after a product is on the market, safety concerns may require additional or more extensive clinical trials as part of a pharmacovigilance program of our product or for approval of a new indication. for example, in connection with the june 2011 esa label changes, we also agreed to conduct additional clinical trials examining the use of esas in ckd. additional clinical trials we initiate, including those required by the fda, could result in substantial additional expense and the outcomes could result in additional label restrictions or the loss of regulatory approval for an approved indication, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. additionally, any negative results from such trials could materially affect the extent of approvals, the use, reimbursement and sales of our products. 24 we expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars. we currently face competition in europe from biosimilars, and we expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars in the future. to the extent that governments adopt more permissive approval frameworks and competitors are able to obtain broader marketing approval for biosimilars, our products will become subject to increased competition. expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger such competition, and we could face more litigation regarding the validity and/or scope of our patents. our products may also experience greater competition from lower-cost biosimilars that come to market as branded products that compete with our products lose patent protection. in the eu, the ec has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. in 2013, the ema drafted new overarching guidelines revisions and proposals that seek to facilitate biosimilar development by clarifying and streamlining the standards required for the approval of biosimilars. in addition, in an effort to spur biosimilar utilization and/or increase potential healthcare savings, countries in the eu, such as france, may adopt biosimilar uptake measures such as requiring physician prescribing quotas or automatic substitution by pharmacists of biosimilars for the corresponding reference products. some eu countries may impose automatic price reductions upon market entry of the second or third biosimilar competitor. we cannot predict to what extent the entry of biosimilars or other competing products will impact future sales of our products in the eu. our inability to compete effectively could reduce sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in the united states, with the adoption of the healthcare reform law the fda was authorized to approve biosimilars under a separate, abbreviated pathway. (see item 1. business — government regulation — regulation in the united states — approval of biosimilars.) a growing number of companies have announced their intentions to develop biosimilar versions of existing biotechnology products, including a number of our products as well as the biosimilars we are working to develop. further, biosimilar manufacturers with approved products in europe may seek to obtain u.s. approval now that the regulatory pathway for biosimilars has been enacted. in addition, critics of the 12-year exclusivity period in the biosimilar pathway law will likely seek to shorten the data exclusivity period and/or to encourage the fda to interpret narrowly the law's provisions regarding which new products receive data exclusivity. while we are unable to predict the precise impact of the pending introduction of biosimilars on our products, we expect in the future to face greater competition in the united states as a result of biosimilars and downward pressure on our product prices and sales, subject to our ability to enforce our patents. (see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations — financial condition, liquidity and capital resources.) this additional competition could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our products face substantial competition. we operate in a highly competitive environment. (see item 1. business — competition.) our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. our competitors market products or are actively engaged in r&d in areas where we have products, where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. in the future, we expect that our products will compete with new drugs currently in development, drugs currently approved for other indications that may later be approved for the same indications as those of our products and drugs approved for other indications that are used off-label. large pharmaceutical companies and generics manufacturers of pharmaceutical products are expanding into the biotechnology field with increasing frequency, and some pharmaceutical companies and generics manufacturers have formed partnerships to pursue biosimilars. in addition, some of our competitors may have technical, competitive or other advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. these advantages may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products or new product indications that these competitors may bring to market. as a result, our products may compete against products that have lower prices, equivalent or superior performance, better safety profile, are easier to administer, achieve earlier entry into the market or that are otherwise competitive with our products. our products may also experience greater competition from lower-cost biosimilars or generics that come to market as branded products that compete with our products lose their own patent protection. for example, upon the expiry of patent protection for novartis’s zometa® (zolendronic acid) in 2013, a number of companies have launched generic forms of zolendronic acid, which now compete against xgeva®. further, in november, teva launched short-acting granix® in the u.s. to compete with neupogen® and long-acting lipegfilgrastim in europe to compete with neulasta®. further, epogen® and aranesp® may begin to face competition during the second half of 2014 from the launch of mircera® in the united states. our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. sales of our principal products are dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and private insurance plans. governments and private insurers have pursued, and continue to pursue, aggressive cost containment initiatives, including increased focus on comparing the effectiveness, benefits and costs of similar treatments, which could result in lower reimbursement rates for our products or narrower populations for whom our products will be reimbursed by payers. 25 a substantial portion of our u.s. business relies on reimbursement from u.s. federal government healthcare programs. further, as the federal agency responsible for administering medicare, medicaid and the new health insurance exchanges, cms has substantial power to quickly implement policy changes that can significantly affect how our products are covered and reimbursed. additionally, there is an increased focus in the united states on analyzing the impact of various government programs on the federal deficit, which has resulted in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs. private payers also continue to seek to reduce their costs. additionally, the implementation of aca’s health insurance exchanges, where plans are required to meet certain coverage and cost sharing requirements in the face of increased regulation of rates and profits, could drive consolidation in the insurance industry. the resulting consolidated entities could have greater leverage in making coverage and reimbursement decisions and exert additional pressure on our ability to price and secure patient access for our products. further, the current health care exchange offerings have very high deductibles and cost-sharing requirements for drugs; if private payers were to broadly adopt these benefit levels for other plans, such change would have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. outside the united states, we expect that countries will continue to take aggressive actions to reduce their healthcare expenditures. (see item 1. business — reimbursement.) any deterioration in the coverage and reimbursement available for our products or in the timeliness or certainty of payment by payers to physicians and other providers could negatively impact the ability or willingness of healthcare providers to prescribe our products for their patients or otherwise negatively affect the use of our products or the prices we receive for them. such changes could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. we also face risks relating to the reporting of pricing data that affects the u.s. reimbursement of and discounts for our products. pricing data that we submit impacts the prices providers are paid, rebates we pay, and discounts we are required to provide under medicare, medicaid and other government drug programs, and the calculations are complex. price reporting regulations require a manufacturer to update certain previously submitted data. our price reporting data calculations are reviewed on a quarterly basis, and based on such reviews we have on occasion restated previously reported pricing data to reflect changes in calculation methodology, reasonable assumptions, and/or underlying data. if our submitted pricing data are incorrect, we may become subject to substantial fines and penalties or other government enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. in addition, if our pricing calculations are incorrect, we also may be required to pay additional rebates and provide additional discounts. we rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components. we rely on unaffiliated third-party suppliers for certain raw materials, medical devices and components necessary for the manufacturing of our commercial and clinical products. certain of those raw materials, medical devices and components are the proprietary products of those unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically cited in our drug application with regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source or sources and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved such supplier. also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial and clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from other countries and/or derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum and human serum albumin. among the reasons we may be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices and components include: • regulatory requirements or action by regulatory agencies or others; • adverse financial or other strategic developments at or affecting the supplier; • unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials, medical devices or components; • failure to comply with our quality standards which results in quality and product failures, product contamination and/or recall; • a material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restrictions on the use of certain biologically derived substances or other raw materials; • discovery of previously unknown or undetected imperfections in raw materials, medical devices or components; and • labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic flu outbreak, natural disaster, or otherwise. these events could negatively impact our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could materially and adversely affect our product use and sales and our business and operating results. for example, in prior years we have experienced shortages in certain components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our products in our puerto rico facility. further quality issues which result in unexpected additional demand for certain components may lead to shortages of required raw materials or components (such as we have experienced with epogen® glass vials). we may experience or continue to experience these or other shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments, supply constraints, contract disputes and/or stock-outs of our products. we continue to investigate alternatives to certain biological sources and alternative manufacturing processes that do not require 26 the use of certain biologically derived substances because such raw materials may be subject to contamination and/or recall. however, any disruptions or delays by us or by third-party suppliers or partners in converting to alternatives to certain biologically derived substances and alternative manufacturing processes or our ability to gain regulatory approval for the alternative materials and manufacturing processes could increase our associated costs or result in the recognition of an impairment in the carrying value of certain related assets, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult, complex and highly regulated. we currently are involved in the manufacture of all of our principal products and plan to manufacture many of our product candidates. in addition, we currently use third-party contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the production of enbrel, prolia®, sensipar®/mimpara®, nplate®, xgeva®, vectibix® and kyprolis® and plan to use contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the production of a number of our late-stage product candidates. our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our products and product candidates is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our facilities and those of our third-party contract manufacturers, which may be impacted by: • capacity of our facilities and those of our contract manufacturers; • contamination by microorganisms or viruses; • natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanoes or fires; • labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic flu outbreak, natural disaster, or otherwise; • degree of compliance with regulatory requirements; • changes in forecasts of future demand; • timing and actual number of production runs; • updating of manufacturing specifications; • production success rates and yields; • contractual disputes with our suppliers and contract manufacturers; and • timing and outcome of product quality testing. if the efficient manufacture and supply of our products or product candidates is interrupted, we may experience delayed shipments, delays in our clinical trials, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. over the past several years we have initiated a number of voluntary recalls of certain lots of our products. for example, beginning in september 2010, we initiated a voluntary recall of certain lots of epogen® and j&j voluntarily recalled certain lots of procrit®, manufactured by us, because a small number of vials in each lot were found to contain glass lamellae (extremely thin, barely visible glass flakes) which we believed was a result of the interaction of the product formulation with glass vials during the shelf life of the product. the recalls were executed in close cooperation with the fda. we may experience the same or other problems in the future, resulting in broader product recalls, adverse event trends, delayed shipments, supply constraints, contract disputes and/or stock-outs of our products. if we are at any time unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may lose patients and physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics instead of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, business and results of operations. our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party contract manufacturers must undergo a potentially lengthy fda or other regulatory approval process and are subject to continued review by the fda and other regulatory authorities. it can take longer than five years to build, validate and license a new manufacturing plant and it can take longer than three years to qualify and license a new contract manufacturer. for example, in order to mitigate the risk associated with the majority of our formulation and fill operations being performed in a single facility, we are completing the construction and qualification of a new formulation and filling facility at our puerto rico site, and we are modifying and expanding our recently acquired formulation, fill and finish manufacturing site in ireland. upon completion, these facilities will require licensure by the various regulatory authorities. if regulatory authorities determine that we or our third-party contract manufacturers or certain of our third-party service providers have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing our products or conducting clinical trials or selling our marketed products until we or the affected third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers comply, or indefinitely. because our third-party contract manufacturers and certain of our third-party service providers are subject to the fda and foreign regulatory authorities, alternative qualified third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers may not be available on a timely basis or at all. if we or our 27 third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us, we may experience delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. additionally, we distribute a substantial volume of our commercial products through our primary distribution centers in louisville, kentucky for the united states and in breda, the netherlands for europe and much of the rest of the world. we also conduct all the labeling and packaging of our products distributed in europe and much of the rest of the world in breda, the netherlands. our ability to timely supply products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operations of our distribution and logistics centers, our third-party logistics providers and our labeling and packaging facility in breda. further, we rely on commercial transportation for the distribution of our products to our customers which may be negatively impacted by natural disasters or security threats. we perform a substantial amount of our commercial manufacturing activities at our puerto rico manufacturing facility and a substantial amount of our clinical manufacturing activities at our thousand oaks, california manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or production failures occur at the puerto rico facility, we may not be able to supply these products or, at the thousand oaks facility, we may not be able to continue our clinical trials. we currently perform all of the formulation, fill and finish for neulasta®, neupogen®, aranesp®, epogen®, prolia® and xgeva® and substantially all of the formulation, fill and finish operations for enbrel at our manufacturing facility in juncos, puerto rico. we also currently perform all of the bulk manufacturing for neulasta®, neupogen® and aranesp®, all of the purification of bulk epogen® material and substantially all of the bulk manufacturing for prolia® and xgeva® at this facility. we perform substantially all of the bulk manufacturing and formulation, fill and finish, and packaging for product candidates to be used in clinical trials at our manufacturing facility in thousand oaks, california. the global supply of our products and product candidates is significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities. a number of factors could materially and adversely affect our operations, including: • power failures and/or other utility failures; • breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment; • improper installation or operation of equipment; • labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic flu outbreak; • inability or unwillingness of third-party suppliers to provide raw materials and components; and • natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes or fires. in the past, the puerto rico facility has experienced manufacturing component shortages and there was evidence of adverse trends in the microbial bioburden of the production environment that reduced the production output. the same or other problems may result in our being unable to supply our products, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, business and operating results. our puerto rico facility is also subject to the same difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing experienced in our other manufacturing facilities. for example, the limited number of lots epogen® voluntarily recalled in 2010 were manufactured at our puerto rico facility. in future inspections, our failure to adequately address the fda's expectations could lead to further inspections of the facility or regulatory actions. (see manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.) our efforts to acquire other companies or products and to integrate their operations may not be successful, and may result in costs, delays or failures to realize the benefits of the transactions. we have an ongoing process of evaluating potential merger, acquisition, partnering and in-license opportunities that we expect will contribute to our future growth and expand our geographic footprint, product offerings and/or our r&d pipeline.  acquisitions may result in unanticipated costs, delays or other operational or financial problems related to integrating the acquired company and business with our company, which may result in the diversion of our management's attention from other business issues and opportunities. failures or difficulties in integrating or retaining new personnel or in integrating the operations of the businesses that we acquire (including their technology, compliance programs, financial systems, distribution and general business operations and procedures), while preserving important r&d, distribution, marketing, promotion and other relationships, may affect our ability to grow and may result in us incurring asset impairment or restructuring charges. for example, on october 1, 2013, we acquired onyx, a biopharmaceutical company with several currently marketed products as well as pipeline candidates progressing through the development process and failures or difficulties in the integration of onyx could result in a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 28 our intellectual property positions may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire, or we may fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation. our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. in addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. for certain of our product candidates, there are third parties who have patents or pending patent applications that they may claim necessitate payment of a royalty or prevent us from commercializing these product candidates in certain territories. patent disputes are frequent, costly and can preclude, delay or increase the cost of commercialization of products. we have been in the past, and may be in the future, involved in patent litigation. a determination made by a court, agency or tribunal concerning infringement, validity, enforceability, injunctive or economic remedy, or the right to patent protection, for example, are typically subject to appellate or administrative review. upon review, such initial determinations may be afforded little or no deference by the reviewing tribunal and may be affirmed, reversed, or made the subject of reconsideration through further proceedings. a patent dispute or litigation may not discourage a potential violator from bringing the product that is alleged to infringe to market prior to a final resolution of the dispute or litigation. the period of time from inception until resolution of a patent dispute or litigation is subject to the availability and schedule of the court, agency or tribunal before which the dispute or litigation is pending. we may be subject to competition during this period and may not be able to fully recover for the losses, damages, and harms we incur from infringement by the competitor product even if we prevail. moreover, if we lose or settle current or future litigations at certain stages or entirely, we could be subject to competition and/or significant liabilities, be required to enter into third-party licenses for the infringed product or technology or be required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. in addition, we cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. further, under the hatch-waxman act, our products approved by the fda under the fdca may be the subject of patent litigation with generic competitors before expiry of the five year period of data exclusivity provided for under the hatch-waxman act and prior to the expiration of the patents listed for the product. likewise, our innovative biologic products may be the subject of patent litigation prior to the expiration of our patents and, with respect to competitors seeking approval as a biosimilar or interchangeable version of our products, prior to the twelve year exclusivity period provided under the biologics price competition and innovation act of 2009. certain of the existing patents on our principal products have recently expired or will expire over the next few years., (see item 1. business — marketing, distribution and selected marketed products — patents.) as our patents expire, competitors may be able to legally produce and market similar products or technologies, including biosimilars, which may have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. (see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations — financial condition, liquidity and capital resources.) we have received, and we continue to seek, additional patent protection relating to our products, including patents on our products, specific processes for making our products, formulations and particular uses of our products. however, competitors may be able to invalidate, design around or otherwise circumvent our patents and sell competing products. our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business in emerging markets. we expect a significant portion of growth in our future business to come from expanding our footprint and presence in emerging markets. as we continue our expansion efforts in emerging markets around the world, through acquisitions and licensing transactions as well as through the development and introduction of our current products into new markets, we face numerous risks to our business. there is no guarantee that the company’s efforts and strategies to expand sales in emerging markets will succeed or that the growth rates experienced in these countries will continue in the future. emerging market countries may be especially vulnerable to periods of global political, legal, regulatory and financial instability, including sovereign debt issues and/or fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents and unfamiliar operations and arrangements previously utilized by companies that we partner with or acquire in emerging markets (see we must conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications.). our international operations and business may also be subject to less protective intellectual property or other applicable laws, diverse data privacy and protection requirements, changing tax laws and tariffs, far-reaching anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations and an evolving legal and regulatory environment. these legal and operational challenges along with the imposition of governmental controls, the challenges of attracting and retaining qualified personnel and obtaining and/or maintain necessary regulatory or pricing approvals of our products may result in a material adverse impact on the international sales of our products, our business and results of operations. 29 concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and consolidation of free-standing dialysis clinic businesses may negatively impact our bargaining power and profit margins. the substantial majority of our u.s. product sales are made to three pharmaceutical product wholesaler distributors, amerisourcebergen corporation, cardinal health, inc. and mckesson corporation. these distributors, in turn, sell our products to their customers, which include physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. one of our products, epogen®, is sold primarily to free-standing dialysis clinics, which have experienced significant consolidation. two organizations, davita and fresenius medical care north america, own or manage a large number of the outpatient dialysis facilities located in the united states and account for a substantial majority of all epogen® sales in the free-standing dialysis clinic setting. due to this concentration, these entities have substantial purchasing leverage, which may put pressure on our pricing by their potential ability to extract price discounts on our products or fees for other services, correspondingly negatively impacting our bargaining position and profit margins. our business may be affected by litigation and government investigations. we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings. (see note 18, contingencies and commitments, to the consolidated financial statements.) civil and criminal litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in costly verdicts, fines and penalties, exclusion from the federal healthcare programs and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. defense of litigation claims can be expensive, time-consuming and distracting and it is possible that we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or change the way we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. we may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management's attention and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. amgen and immunex have previously been named as defendants in product liability actions for certain of our products. we are also involved in government investigations that arise in the ordinary course of our business. as we announced on december 19, 2012, we finalized a settlement agreement with the u.s. government and various other parties to settle certain allegations regarding our sales and marketing practices. however, we may also be subject to actions by governmental entities, including those not participating in the settlement, and may in the future become subject to claims by other parties, in each case with respect to the alleged conduct which is the subject of the settlement. we may see new governmental investigations of or actions against us citing novel theories of recovery. any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and other jurisdictions in which we do business. as a result, our provision for income taxes is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places we operate. significant judgment is required for determining our provision for income tax and our tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. we believe our accrual for tax liabilities is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of the provision for income taxes, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. our provision for income taxes and results of operations in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of income and expenses in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in applicable tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations thereof. for example, there are several proposals under consideration in the united states to reform tax law, including proposals that may reduce or eliminate the deferral of u.s. income tax on our unrepatriated foreign earnings. a significant change to the u.s. tax system, such as a change to the taxation of income earned outside the united states including credits allowed for foreign taxes, or a significant change to the puerto rico tax system, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and on the results of our operations. we may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. the capital and credit markets may experience extreme volatility and disruption which may lead to uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors. we may access the capital markets to supplement our existing funds and cash generated from operations in satisfying our needs for working capital; capital expenditure and debt service requirements; our plans to pay dividends; and other business initiatives we plan to strategically pursue, including acquisitions and licensing activities. in the event of adverse capital and credit market conditions, we may be unable to obtain capital market financing on similar favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit rating agencies could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. 30 our risk mitigation measures and corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we effectively manage all operational risks and that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable u.s. federal and state regulations and all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or other requirements. the development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation in the united states and to extensive regulation in foreign countries. (see our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval and manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.) in addition, our business is complex and involves significant operational risks. while we have implemented numerous risk mitigation measures to comply with such regulations in this complex operating environment, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to effectively mitigate all operational risks. further, we are now operating under a corporate integrity agreement with the u.s. department of health and human services, oig, which requires us to maintain our corporate compliance program and to undertake a set of defined obligations. the corporate integrity agreement requires us to make periodic attestations that we are implementing and following the provisions of the corporate integrity agreement, and provides for an independent third-party review organization to assess and report on our compliance to the oig. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our partners, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable u.s. federal and state regulations and/or laws, all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws and/or all requirements of the corporate integrity agreement. if we fail to adequately mitigate our operational risks or if we or our agents fail to comply with any of those regulations, laws and/or requirements of the corporate integrity agreement, a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation. such occurrences could have a material and adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. we are increasingly dependent on information technology systems, infrastructure and data. we are increasingly dependent upon information technology systems, infrastructure and data. the multitude and complexity of our computer systems make them inherently vulnerable to service interruption or destruction, malicious intrusion and random attack. likewise, data privacy or security breaches by employees or others may pose a risk that sensitive data, including intellectual property, trade secrets or personal information belonging to the company, its patients, customers or other business partners, may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity. cyber-attacks could include the deployment of harmful malware, denial-of-service, social engineering and other means to affect service reliability and threaten data confidentiality, integrity and availability. our key business partners face similar risks and any security breach of their systems could adversely affect our security posture. while in the past we have experienced cyber-attacks and intrusions into our computer systems, we do not believe that such attacks have had a material adverse effect on our operations. while we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions, or identify breaches in our systems, that could adversely affect our business and operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive information, which could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to us. global economic conditions may negatively affect us and may magnify certain risks that affect our business. our operations and performance have been, and may continue to be, affected by economic conditions in the united states and throughout the world. as more fully explained below, financial pressures may cause government or other third-party payers to more aggressively seek cost containment through mandatory discounts on our products, policies requiring the automatic substitution of generics or biosimilars, higher hurdles for initial reimbursement approval for new products or other similar measures. (see we expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars.) additionally, as a result of global economic conditions, third-party payers may delay or be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations. in addition, as a result of the economic conditions and/or employer decisions regarding the insurance coverage mandate that goes into effect in the united states in 2015 and 2016, some employers may seek to reduce costs by reducing or eliminating employer group healthcare plans or transferring a greater portion of healthcare costs to their employees. job losses or other economic hardships may also result in reduced levels of coverage for some individuals, potentially resulting in lower levels of healthcare coverage for themselves or their families. these economic conditions may affect patients' ability to afford health care as a result of increased co-pay or deductible obligations, greater cost sensitivity to existing co-pay or deductible obligations, lost healthcare insurance coverage or for other reasons. we believe such conditions have led and could continue to lead to changes in patient behavior and spending patterns that negatively affect usage of certain of our products, including some patients delaying treatment, rationing prescription medications, leaving prescriptions unfilled, reducing the frequency of visits to healthcare facilities, utilizing alternative therapies and/or foregoing healthcare insurance coverage. in addition to its effects on consumers, any economic downturn may have also increased cost sensitivities among medical providers in the united states, such as oncology clinics, particularly in circumstances where providers may experience challenges in the collection of patient co-pays or be forced to absorb treatment costs as a result of coverage decisions or reimbursement terms. collectively, we believe these changes have resulted and may continue to result in reduced demand for our products, which could 31 materially and adversely affect the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. any resulting decrease in demand for our products could also cause us to experience excess inventory write-offs and/or excess capacity or impairment charges at certain of our manufacturing facilities. economic conditions continue to affect our operations and performance outside the united states as well, particularly in countries where government-sponsored healthcare systems are the primary payers for healthcare expenditures. credit and economic conditions have adversely impacted the timing of collections of our trade receivables. (see item 7. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation — financial condition, liquidity and capital resources.) further economic challenges may impact our ability to collect some or all of our receivables, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating cash flows and a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations. (see our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.) we also rely upon third parties for certain parts of our business, including licensees and partners, wholesale distributors of our products, contract clinical trial providers, contract manufacturers and single third-party suppliers. there may be a disruption or delay in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by these third parties which could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. current economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of our distributors, customers and suppliers to obtain liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials and to perform their obligations under agreements with us, which could disrupt our operations. further, economic conditions appear to have affected, and may continue to affect, the business practices of our wholesale distributors in a manner that contributes to lower sales of our products. although we monitor our distributors', customers' and suppliers' financial condition and their liquidity in order to mitigate our business risks, some of our distributors, customers and suppliers may become insolvent, which could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. these risks may be elevated with respect to our interactions with third parties with substantial operations in countries where current economic conditions are the most severe, particularly where such third parties are themselves exposed to sovereign risk from business interactions directly with fiscally-challenged government payers. we maintain a significant portfolio of investments disclosed as cash equivalents and marketable securities on our consolidated balance sheet. the value of our investments may be adversely affected by interest rate fluctuations, downgrades in credit ratings, illiquidity in the capital markets and other factors that may result in other than temporary declines in the value of our investments. any of those events could cause us to record impairment charges with respect to our investment portfolio or to realize losses on the sale of investments. our stock price is volatile. our stock price, like that of our peers in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, is volatile. our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. events such as a delay in product development or even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause financial results for a period to be below our expectations or projections. as a result, our revenues and operating results and, in turn, our stock price may be subject to significant fluctuations. guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. however, professional societies, practice management groups, insurance carriers, physicians, private health/science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators and payers, and patient communities. recommendations by government agencies or those other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies as well as reimbursement of our products by government and private payers. in addition, hta organizations, such as the national institute for health and clinical excellence in the uk and the canadian agency for drugs and technologies in health, make reimbursement recommendations to payers in their jurisdictions based on the clinical effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and service impact of new, emerging and existing medicines and treatments. any recommendations or guidelines that result in decreased use, dosage or reimbursement of our products could materially and adversely affect our product sales, business and operating results. in addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use and dosage of our products could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. the commercialization of certain of our product candidates and the marketing of certain of our products is dependent in part on our partners. we have entered into agreements with third parties to assist in the commercialization of certain of our product candidates and the marketing of certain of our products in specified geographic areas. (see item 1. business — business relationships.) many of these agreements involve the sharing of certain decisions and a division of responsibilities, costs and benefits. if our partners fail to effectively deliver on their marketing and commercialization commitments to us or if we and our partners fail to coordinate our efforts effectively, sales of our products may be materially and adversely affected. 32 cost savings initiatives may result in the carrying value of certain existing manufacturing facilities or other assets becoming impaired or other related charges being incurred. our business continues to face many challenges. in response to these challenges, we have worked and continue to work to improve cost efficiencies and to reduce discretionary expenditures. as part of those efforts, we undertake cost savings initiatives to evaluate our processes and procedures in order to identify opportunities for achieving greater efficiencies in how we conduct our business. in particular, we evaluate our manufacturing operations to identify opportunities to increase production yields and/or success rates as well as capacity utilization. depending on the timing and outcomes of these cost savings initiatives, the carrying value of certain manufacturing or other assets may not be fully recoverable and could result in the recognition of impairment and/or other related charges. the recognition of such charges, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends. our board of directors has declared quarterly dividends on our common stock since it adopted a dividend policy in 2011. whether we continue and the amount and timing of such dividends are subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and agreements of the company applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. future dividends, including their timing and amount, may be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions, including acquisitions; debt service requirements; our credit rating; changes to applicable tax laws or corporate laws; and changes to our business model. our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends in any particular amounts or at all. the reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. the illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or of stolen or diverted products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet the exacting standards of our company's development, manufacturing and distribution processes. counterfeit medicines pose a significant risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured and the lack of regulation of their contents.  counterfeit products are frequently unsafe or ineffective and can be potentially life-threatening. our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit drugs sold under our brand name. in addition, products stolen from inventory, at warehouses, plants or while in transit or unlawfully diverted, which are not properly stored and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business.  public loss of confidence in the integrity of biologics and/or pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting or theft could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. item 1b. unresolved