item 1a. risk factors   this report and other documents we file with the sec contain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our beliefs and our management’s assumptions. these statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties facing our business. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, operations, liquidity and stock price materially and adversely.   our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.   sales of all of our principal products are dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and private insurance plans. governments and private payers may regulate prices, reimbursement levels and/or access to our products to control costs or to affect levels of use of our products. we rely in large part on the reimbursement of our principal products through government programs such as medicare and medicaid in the united states and similar programs in foreign countries and a reduction in the coverage and/or reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of operations.   the government-sponsored healthcare systems in europe and many other foreign countries are the primary payers for healthcare expenditures, including payment for drugs and biologics, in those regions. while mandatory price reductions have been a recurring aspect of business for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in europe, given the current worldwide economic conditions, certain european country governments have increased the frequency and size of such mandatory price reductions to extract further cost savings. for example, in 2010 countries such as greece announced price reductions and/or mandated rebates for certain pharmaceutical and biological products that substantially exceeded prior levels. we expect that other countries may follow and/or take similar or more extensive actions to reduce expenditure on drugs and biologics, including mandatory price reductions, preference for biosimilar products or reduction in the amount of reimbursement. while we cannot fully predict the extent of further price reductions by countries in europe or the impact such price reductions will have on our business, such reductions in price and/or the coverage and reimbursement for our products in european countries could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of operations.   in march 2010 the united states adopted significant healthcare reform through the enactment of the ppaca and the heathcare and education reconciliation act. (see reimbursement — u.s. healthcare reform.) a major goal of the new healthcare reform law is to provide greater access to healthcare coverage for more americans. accordingly, the new healthcare reform law requires individual u.s. citizens and legal residents to maintain qualifying health coverage, imposes certain requirements on employers with respect to offering health coverage to employees, amends insurance regulations regarding when coverage can be provided and denied to individuals, and expands existing government healthcare coverage programs to more individuals in more situations, with most of these changes going into effect in january 2014. we do not expect a significant increase in sales of our products as a result of the 2014 expansions in healthcare coverage. the new healthcare reform law does have several components, with varied implementation dates that began in 2010, that have and are expected to continue to adversely impact our business. while we cannot fully predict the ultimate impact the new healthcare reform law will have on us, we expect that the new law will continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.   public and private insurers have pursued, and continue to pursue, aggressive cost containment initiatives, including increased focus on comparing the effectiveness, benefits and costs of similar treatments, which could result in lower reimbursement rates for our products. a substantial portion of our u.s. business relies on reimbursement under medicare part b coverage. any deterioration in the timeliness or certainty of payment from cms to physicians, including as a result of changes in policy or regulations, or as a result of operational difficulties, could negatively impact the willingness of physicians to prescribe our products for patients relying on 41 table of contents medicare for their medical coverage. most of our products furnished to medicare beneficiaries in both a physician office setting and hospital outpatient setting are reimbursed under the asp payment methodology. asp-based reimbursements of products under medicare may be below or could fall below the cost that some medical providers pay for such products, which would adversely affect sales of our products. we also face certain risks relating to the calculation of asp. asp is calculated by the manufacturer based on a statutorily defined formula and submitted to cms. however, the statute, regulations and cms guidance do not define specific methodologies for all aspects of the calculation of asp. for example, in the medicare physician fee schedule final rule for 2011, cms did not address a proposed methodology for treatment of bundled price concessions. consequently, the current cms guidance is that manufacturers may make “reasonable assumptions” in their calculation of asp consistent with the general requirements and the intent of the medicare statute, federal regulations and their customary business practices. as a result, we are required to apply our judgment in certain aspects of calculating asp which are disclosed to cms and also are subject to further cms review. if our calculation of asp is incorrect, we could be subject to substantial fines and penalties which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. additionally, we are required to pay rebates to the federal government on products reimbursed by medicaid at a rate of 23.1% of the average manufacturers price (“amp”) of a product, or if it is greater, the difference between the amp and the best price available to any non-government customer. the definition of amp recently changed and we expect cms to shortly issue a proposed rule further defining the new amp definition. until that rule is issued, we will be required to apply our judgment in certain aspects of the amp calculation. once the cms rule is issued, we will have to determine whether our interpretation of amp follows the rule or would need to be restated and this could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.   other initiatives reviewing the coverage or reimbursement of our products could result in less extensive coverage or lower reimbursement rates. for example, in july 2007, cms issued an ncd where it determined that esa treatment was not reasonable and necessary for certain clinical conditions and established medicare coverage parameters for fda-approved esa use in oncology. generally, an ncd is a national policy statement granting, limiting or excluding medicare coverage or reimbursement for a specific medical item or service. we believe the restrictions in the 2007 ncd changed the way esas are used in clinical practice, for example, by decreasing the number of treated patients, the average esa dose and the duration of esa therapy in the oncology setting. as a result, we believe these restrictions have had a material adverse effect on the use, reimbursement and sales of aranesp®, which has had a significant impact to our business.   the reimbursement of esas in the nephrology setting is also receiving attention. on march 24, 2010, cms held a medcac meeting to examine the currently available evidence on the use of esas to manage anemia in patients who have ckd and on june 16, 2010, cms opened an nca to examine the use of esas to manage anemia in patients with ckd and dialysis-related anemia. this nca initiates the process of reviewing and evaluating potential changes in medicare coverage policies for the use of esas in those patients and may result in the issuance of a new ncd by cms. the 30-day public comment period on the nca ended on july 17, 2010 and cms has stated that the nca process for esas will conclude on or before june 16, 2011, but cms could propose a new ncd at any time prior to that deadline. additionally, on january 19, 2011, cms held another medcac meeting, this time to review the available evidence on the impact of esa use on renal transplant graft survival. this development continues cms’s process of reviewing and evaluating potential changes in medicare coverage policies for the use of esas in patients with ckd. we cannot predict if and when a new ncd will be issued or the details of any potentially changed coverage decisions for the use of esas in patients with ckd, including whether or how a new ncd could change cms’s bundled payment system and/or the esrd qip. however, similar to the impact of the 2007 ncd on the use of esas in oncology, a new ncd around the use of esas to manage anemia in patients with ckd and dialysis-related anemia may negatively affect use, coverage and reimbursement, and/or product sales of our esa products in the nephrology setting, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.   further, the list of potential future ncds issued by cms in late 2008 included the category of thrombopoiesis stimulating agents (platelet growth factors), the category of drugs that includes nplate®, and a discussion on bisphosphonates used to treat osteoporosis. cms has not announced whether it will proceed with an nca related to 42 table of contents thrombopoiesis stimulating agents and, while prolia® is not a bisphosphonate, there is the possibility that cms might evaluate other agents, including rank ligand inhibitors such as prolia® and xgevatm.   in the dialysis setting, the reimbursement rates for our products are also subject to downward pressure. in the united states, dialysis providers are reimbursed for epogen® primarily by the federal government through the esrd program of medicare. the esrd program reimburses approved dialysis providers for 80% of allowed dialysis costs while the remainder is paid by other sources, including patients, state medicaid programs, private insurance and, to a lesser extent, state kidney patient programs. the esrd program reimbursement methodology is established by federal law and is implemented by cms. until january 1, 2011, medicare reimbursed for separately billable dialysis drugs (including epogen® and aranesp®) administered in both freestanding and hospital-based dialysis centers at asp+6%, using the same payment amount methodology used in the physician clinic setting under part b. on january 1, 2011, cms’s bundled payment system went into effect for dialysis facilities which provides a single payment for all dialysis services including drugs, supplies, and non-routine laboratory tests that were previously reimbursed separately. (see reimbursement — reimbursement of our principal products — dialysis reimbursement.) dialysis providers were given the choice of opting into the new bundled payment system in its entirety on january 1, 2011, or phasing in ratably over a four-year period beginning in 2011. substantially all dialysis providers in the united states have opted into the bundled payment system in its entirety beginning in 2011. we expect that the implementation of the bundled payment system by esrd facilities will have a material adverse impact on the reimbursement, use and sales of epogen® beginning in 2011, and sensipar® beginning in 2014.   additional initiatives addressing the coverage or reimbursement of our products could result in less extensive coverage or lower reimbursement, which could negatively affect sales of our products. for example, since april 2006, the medicare reimbursement for esas administered to dialysis patients has also been subject to an emp, the medicare payment review mechanism used by cms to monitor epogen® and aranesp® utilization and hematocrit outcomes of dialysis patients. cms revised the emp, effective january 2008, further limiting reimbursement for epogen® and aranesp® in certain cases. further reduction in reimbursement in the dialysis setting could have a material adverse effect on sales of epogen® and aranesp®, and our business.   if, for any of these or other reasons, reimbursement rates are reduced, or if healthcare providers anticipate reimbursement being reduced, providers may narrow the circumstances in which they prescribe or administer our products, which could reduce the use and/or sales of our products. a reduction in the use and sales of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations.   our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval.   our business is subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including the ema. we are required in the united states and in foreign countries to obtain approval from regulatory authorities before we can manufacture, market and sell our products. once approved, the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial authority to require additional testing, change product labeling or mandate withdrawals of our products. also, legislative bodies or regulatory agencies could enact new laws or regulations or change existing laws or regulations at any time, which could affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products. for example, the 2007 creation of the fdaaa significantly added to the fda’s authority, allowing the fda to (i) require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies; (ii) mandate labeling changes to products and (iii) require sponsors to implement a rems for a product. failure to comply with fdaaa requirements could result in significant civil monetary penalties, reputational harm and increased product liability risk. current policy discussions underway in the united states include debates about the implementation of the new, abbreviated pathway for biosimilars established under the new healthcare reform law; renegotiation of the prescription drug user fee act, which governs the user fees pharmaceutical and biological companies pay to the fda that provide a substantial portion of the fda’s operating budget, in anticipation of re-authorization before september 30, 2012; and reforms to the regulations that govern diagnostics and medical devices which are sometimes used in conjunction with our products. we are unable to predict when and whether any changes to laws or regulatory policies affecting our business could occur, and such changes could have a material adverse impact on our business. 43 table of contents obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval has been and will continue to be increasingly difficult, time-consuming and costly. for example, in october 2009 we received complete response letters from the fda for the bla for prolia® in the treatment and prevention of pmo and in the treatment and prevention of bone loss due to hormone ablation therapy (“halt”) in breast and prostate cancer patients. the complete response letter related to the pmo indication requested several items, including further information on the design and background adverse event rates to inform the methodology of our previously submitted post-marketing surveillance program. the fda also requested a new clinical program to support the approval of prolia® for the prevention of pmo, updated safety data and stated that a rems is necessary for prolia®. the complete response letter related to the halt indication requested additional information regarding the safety of prolia® in patients with breast cancer receiving aromatase inhibitor therapy and patients with prostate cancer receiving androgen deprivation therapy. the fda specifically requested results from additional adequate and well-controlled clinical trials demonstrating that prolia® has no detrimental effects on either time to disease progression or overall survival.   in addition, there may be situations in which demonstrating the efficacy and safety of a product candidate may not be sufficient to gain regulatory approval unless superiority to comparative products can be shown. further some of our products are approved by u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities on a conditional basis with full approval conditioned upon fulfilling requirements of regulators. vectibix®, for example, received conditional approval in the united states and eu, with full approval conditioned on conducting additional clinical trials of the use of vectibix® as a therapy in treating mcrc. (see marketed products and selected product candidates — vectibix® (panitumumab).) if we are unable to fulfill the requirements of regulators that were conditions of our products’ accelerated or conditional approval, we may not receive full approval for these products and may be required to change the products’ labeled indications or even withdraw the products from the market. further, some of our products or product candidates may be used with a companion diagnostic product, such as a test kit, or companion device, such as an injector or other delivery system. these product candidates or expanded indications of our products may not be approved if the companion diagnostic product or companion device does not gain or maintain regulatory approval. these companion diagnostics and devices may be provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party companies. we are dependent on the sustained cooperation and effort of those third-party companies in conducting the studies required for such approval by the applicable regulatory agencies. delays in the studies or failure of the third-party company to obtain regulatory approval of the companion diagnostic or device could negatively impact the approval of our product candidate or the expanded indication of our product and we may incur increased development costs, delays in regulatory approval and/or associated delays in a product candidate reaching the market or the expansion of existing product labels for new indications.   the occurrence of a number of high profile safety events has caused an increased public and governmental concern about potential safety issues relating to pharmaceutical and biological products and certain of our products and product candidates. (see our esa products continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.) as a result of this increased concern in recent years, the u.s. regulatory environment has evolved and safety signals and safety concerns resulting from clinical trials (including sub-analyses and meta-analyses), market use or other sources are receiving greater scrutiny. actual or perceived safety problems could lead to revised or restrictive labeling of our approved products or a class of products, potentially including limitations on the use of approved products in certain patients because of:     •      the identification of actual or theoretical safety or efficacy concerns with respect to any of our products by regulatory agencies     •      an increased rate or number of previously-identified safety-related events     •      the discovery of significant problems or safety signals or trends with a similar product that implicates an entire class of products 44 table of contents     •      subsequent concerns about the sufficiency of the data or studies underlying the label or changes to the underlying safety/efficacy analysis related to results from clinical trials, including sub-analyses, or meta-analysis (a meta-analysis is the review of studies using various statistical methods to combine results from previous separate but related studies) of clinical trials or clinical data performed by us or others     •      new legislation or rules by regulatory agencies   for example, in december 2009, based on the treat results, we updated the boxed warning in the labeling information for esas, to reflect an increased risk of stroke when esas are administered to crf patients to target hb levels of 13 g/dl and above. in october 2010, we submitted additional proposed labeling changes regarding the use of esas in crf patients not on dialysis that would limit treatment to patients who are most likely to benefit, specifically those with significant anemia (<10 g/dl), and who are at high risk for transfusion and for whom transfusion avoidance is considered clinically important, including those in whom it is important to preserve kidney transplant eligibility. we are working with the fda to determine the appropriate use of esas in ckd patients and to determine any future esa labeling changes required in connection with treat or the crdac meeting. (see our esa products continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.)   in addition to revised labeling for our products, discovery of new safety information or previously unknown safety concerns and/or safety signals with our products or similar products could also lead to:     •      requirement of risk management activities (including a rems) or other fda compliance actions related to the promotion and sale of our products     •      mandated pmcs or pharmacovigilance programs for our approved products     •      product recalls of our approved products     •      revocation of approval for our products from the market completely, or within particular therapeutic areas, and/or     •      increased timelines or delays in being approved by the fda or other regulatory bodies     •      fewer treatments or product candidates being approved by regulatory bodies   product safety concerns could cause regulatory agencies to impose risk management activities upon us (including a rems), which may require substantial costs and resources to negotiate, develop, implement and administer. the results of these risk management activities could:     •      impact the ability of healthcare providers to prescribe, dispense or use our products     •      limit patient access to our products     •      reduce patient willingness to use our products     •      place administrative burdens on healthcare providers in prescribing our products     •      affect our ability to compete against products that do not have a rems or similar risk management activities   we currently have approved rems for our esas, enbrel, prolia® and nplate®, and we use third-party service providers to assist in the administration of our rems that include elements to assure safe use. for example, our nplate® and esa rems each require applicable healthcare providers and institutions to enroll in the program, receive education about the product and the rems and document and report certain information to us over time. we are responsible for tracking and documenting certain elements of healthcare provider and institution compliance with the nplate® and esa rems and providing the fda with periodic assessment reports to demonstrate that the goals of the rems are being met. if we or third-party service providers acting on our behalf fail to effectively implement and/or administer the rems for our products, we may be required to modify such rems, and we may be subject to fda enforcement actions or to civil penalties.   further, if new medical data or product quality issues suggest an unacceptable safety risk or previously unidentified side-effects, we may withdraw some or all affected product — either voluntarily or by regulatory 45 table of contents mandate — in certain therapeutic areas, or completely recall a product presentation from the market for some period or permanently. for example, in september 2009, we initiated a voluntary recall of a limited number of enbrel sureclick® lots due to a defect in the glass syringe barrel which resulted in a small number of broken syringes following assembly of the autoinjector device. in october 2010, we initiated a voluntary recall of certain lots of enbrel due to identification of cracks in a small number of the glass syringes which may have resulted in product leakage and syringe breakage. further, beginning in september 2010, we initiated a voluntary recall of certain lots of epogen® and j&j voluntarily recalled certain lots of procrit®, manufactured by us, because a small number of vials in each lot were found to contain glass lamellae (extremely thin, barely visible glass flakes) which we believed was a result of the interaction of the formulation with glass vials during the shelf life of the product. the recalls were executed in close collaboration with the fda. we may experience the same or other problems in the future, resulting in broader product recalls, adverse event trends, delayed shipments, supply constraints, contract disputes and/or stock-outs of our products, which may adversely affect the sales of our products. additionally, if other parties (including our independent clinical trial investigators or our licensees, such as j&j, pfizer, glaxo, takeda and daiichi sankyo) report or fail to effectively report to regulatory agencies side effects or other safety concerns that occur from their use of our products in clinical trials or studies or from marketed use, resulting regulatory action could adversely affect the sales of our products and our business and results of operations.   if regulatory authorities determine that we have not complied with regulations in the r&d of a product candidate, a new indication for an existing product or information to support a current indication, they may not approve the product candidate or new indication or maintain approval of the current indication in its current form or at all, and we would not be able to market and sell it. if we were unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. further, safety signals, trends, adverse events or results from clinical trials or studies performed by us or by others (including our licensees or independent investigators) from the marketed use of our drugs or similar products that result in revised safety-related labeling or restrictions on the use of our approved products could negatively impact healthcare provider prescribing behavior, use and sales of our products, regulatory or private health organization medical guidelines and reimbursement for our products all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.   our esa products continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.   beginning in 2006, adverse safety results involving esa products were observed and since that time our esas have been the subject of ongoing review and scrutiny by regulatory authorities and reimbursement agencies. in the united states, the fda continues to review the benefit-risk profile of esas, which have resulted and could result in future changes to esa labeling and usage. for example, we revised the labeling for our esas in august 2008, as the fda directed. in addition, in july 2007 cms issued an ncd for non-renal esas that determined that esa treatment was not reasonable and necessary for certain clinical conditions, and established medicare coverage parameters for fda-approved esa use in oncology. since these labeling and reimbursement changes, we experienced a substantial reduction in our esa sales, in particular aranesp® sales in the u.s. supportive cancer care setting. in october 2009, the results from treat, a phase 3 pivotal study of patients with ckd not on dialysis were published in the new england journal of medicine. the study failed to meet its primary objectives of demonstrating a reduction in all-cause mortality, cardiovascular morbidity, including heart failure, heart attack, stroke or hospitalization for myocardial ischemia, or time to esrd. on december 16, 2009, based on the treat results, we updated the boxed warning in the labeling information for esas, to reflect an increased risk of stroke when esas are administered to crf patients to target hb levels of 13 g/dl and above. cms held a medcac meeting on march 24, 2010 to examine the currently available evidence on the use of esas to manage anemia in patients who have ckd, which considered the results from the treat study, and on june 16, 2010, cms opened a new nca to examine the use of esas to manage anemia in patients with ckd and dialysis-related anemia. on october 18, 2010 the fda’s crdac discussed the results from the treat study conducted in patients not on dialysis, and how those results informed the appropriate use of esas in patients with ckd. prior to the crdac meeting, we submitted proposed labeling changes regarding the use of esas in crf patients not on dialysis that would limit treatment to patients who are most likely to benefit, specifically those with significant anemia (<10 g/dl), and who are at high risk for transfusion and for whom transfusion avoidance is 46 table of contents considered clinically important, including those in whom it is important to preserve kidney transplant eligibility. a variety of opinions regarding the appropriate use of esas in patients with ckd were offered at the crdac meeting by the various meeting participants. on january 19, 2011, cms held another medcac meeting, this time to review the available evidence on the impact of esa use on renal transplant graft survival. (see our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.) we are working with the fda to determine the appropriate use of esas in ckd patients and we continue to cooperate with cms in determining appropriate reimbursement for our esas. although we cannot predict what impact all of these activities (including the revised esa labeling; any future esa labeling changes required in connection with treat or the crdac meeting or from our ongoing discussions with the fda regarding the conversion of the format of our esa u.s. labels in accordance with the physician’s labeling rule; the outcome from the nca or medcac meetings, including an ncd; and the impact of the approved rems for esas) could have on our business, these activities could, individually or together, have a material adverse impact on the coverage, reimbursement, use and/or sales of our esas, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. (see our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval.)   we also have ongoing pmcs for our esas that must be conducted to maintain regulatory approval and marketing authorization. we have agreed with the fda to a robust pharmacovigilance program to continue to study the safety surrounding the use of esas in the oncology setting and we initiated study’782 as part of our aranesp® pharmacovigilance program, a phase 3 non-inferiority study evaluating overall survival when comparing nsclc patients on aranesp® to patients receiving placebo. we continue to identify clinical sites for study’782 and to enroll patients in the study. in addition, j&jprd’s epo-ane-3010 study, which evaluates the use of epoetin alfa in patients with breast cancer, is ongoing and is designated as an fda pmc. further, in 2008 the fda and the ema reviewed interim results from the preoperative epirubicin paclitaxel aranesp® (“prepare”) study in neo-adjuvant breast cancer, a pmc study, which were ultimately incorporated into the esa labeling in both the united states and the eu. we received the final results from the prepare study in 2009, which were substantially consistent with the interim results, and provided that data to the fda and ema. although we cannot predict the results or the outcomes of ongoing clinical trials, or the extent to which regulatory authorities may require additional labeling changes as a result of these or other trials, we cannot exclude the possibility that adverse results from clinical trials, including pmcs, could have a material adverse impact on the reimbursement, use and sales of our esas, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.   regulatory authorities outside the united states have also reviewed and scrutinized the use of our esa products. in june 2008, the ema recommended updating the product information for esas with a new warning for their use in cancer patients, which was approved by the ec in october 2008. the product information for all esas was updated to advise that, in some clinical situations, blood transfusions should be the preferred treatment for the management of anemia in patients with cancer and that the decision to administer esas should be based on a benefit-risk assessment with the participation of the individual patient. since the october 2008 revision, we have experienced a reduction of aranesp® sales in the supportive cancer care setting in the eu and, although we cannot predict what further impact the revised eu esa product information could have on our business, the coverage, reimbursement, use and sales of aranesp® in europe could further be materially adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.   moreover, we continue to receive results from meta-analyses or previously initiated clinical trials using esas, including pmcs, and adverse results could negatively impact the use and sales of our esas. for example, in september 2008, we announced that we had received a summary of preliminary results from the cochrane collaboration’s independent meta-analysis of patient-level data from previously conducted, randomized, controlled, clinical studies evaluating esas in cancer patients which we submitted to the fda and the ema. this cochrane meta-analysis of patient-level data from previous studies corroborates prior analyses indicating that the use of esas may increase the risk of death in cancer patients. the studies in the analysis all predate the current label, which advises using the least amount of esa necessary to avoid transfusion but they do not exclude the potential for adverse outcomes when esas are prescribed according to the current label. 47 table of contents we must conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications.   before we can sell any products, we must conduct clinical trials to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. the results of those clinical trials are used as the basis to obtain approval from regulatory authorities such as the fda and ema. (see our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval.) we are required to conduct clinical trials using an appropriate number of trial sites and patients to support the product label claims. the length of time, number of trial sites and patients required for clinical trials vary substantially and therefore, we may spend several years and incur substantial expense in completing certain clinical trials. delays in planned clinical trials can result in increased development costs, delays in regulatory approvals, associated delays in product candidates reaching the market and revisions to existing product labels. for example, in 2006 we delayed the start of our phase 3 trial in first-line nsclc due to an increased frequency of cholecystitis (inflammation of the gall bladder) in patients treated with our late-stage product candidate motesanib. following initiation of the trial in november 2008, enrollment in this phase 3 trial was temporarily suspended following a planned safety data review of 600 patients by the study’s independent dmc. in february 2009, the dmc recommended the trial resume enrollment of patients with non-squamous nsclc only, and in june 2009, we reinitiated enrollment in this patient population following an fda-approved revision to the study protocol.   in addition, in order to increase the number of patients available for enrollment for our clinical trials, we have and will continue to open clinical sites and enroll patients in a number of new geographic locations where our experience conducting clinical trials is more limited, including russia, india, east asia and some central and south american countries either through utilization of third-party contract clinical trial providers entirely or in combination with local staff. conducting clinical trials in locations where we have limited experience requires substantial time and resources to identify and understand the unique regulatory environments of individual countries. further, we must ensure the timely production, distribution and delivery of the clinical supply of our product candidates to the numerous and varied clinical trial sites. if we fail to adequately manage the design, execution and regulatory aspects of our large, complex and regulatorily diverse clinical trials or manage the production or distribution of our clinical supply, corresponding regulatory approvals may be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our product candidates or could lose our ability to market existing products in certain therapeutic areas or altogether. if we are unable to market and sell our product candidates or are unable to obtain approvals in the timeframe needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. additional information on our clinical trials can be found on our website at www.amgen.com. (this website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing.)   further, we rely on unaffiliated third-party vendors to perform certain aspects of our clinical trial operations. in the event that any of these vendors has unforeseen issues that negatively impact the quality of its work, our ability to evaluate clinical results may also be negatively impacted. as a result, this could adversely affect our ability to file for, gain or maintain regulatory approvals worldwide on a timely basis.   patients may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects in the course of our, our licensees, partners or independent investigator’s clinical trials which could:     •      delay the clinical trial program     •      require additional or longer trials to gain approval     •      prohibit regulatory approval of our product candidates or new indications for existing products     •      render the product candidate commercially unfeasible or limit our ability to market existing products completely or in certain therapeutic areas.   clinical trials must be designed based on the current standard of medical care. however in certain diseases, such as cancer, the standard of care is evolving rapidly. in these diseases, the duration of time needed to complete certain clinical trials may result in the design of such clinical trials being based on an out of date standard of medical 48 table of contents care, limiting the utility and application of such trials. we may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for new product candidates, new indications for existing products or maintenance of our current labels on this basis. further, clinical trials conducted by others, including our licensees, partners or independent investigators, may result in unfavorable clinical trials results that may call into question the safety of our products in off-label or on label uses that may result in label restrictions and/or additional trials.   even after a product is on the market, safety concerns may require additional or more extensive clinical trials as part of a pharmacovigilance program of our product or for approval of a new indication. for example, we have initiated study’782 as part of our aranesp® pharmacovigilance program. (see our esa products continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.) additional clinical trials we initiate, including those required by the fda, could result in substantial additional expense and the outcomes could result in additional label restrictions or the loss of regulatory approval for an approved indication, each of which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. additionally, any negative results from such trials could materially affect the extent of approvals, the use, reimbursement and sales of our products.   we expect to face increasing competition from biosimilar products which could impact our profitability.   we currently face competition in europe from biosimilar products, and we expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars in the future. lawmakers in the united states have recently enacted healthcare reform legislation which included an abbreviated regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilars. the eu has already created such a regulatory pathway. to the extent that governments adopt more permissive approval frameworks and competitors are able to obtain broader marketing approval for biosimilars, our products will become subject to increased competition. expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger such competition, and we could face more litigation regarding the validity and/or scope of our patents.   in the eu, the ec has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. in 2006, the ema developed and issued final regulatory guidelines related to the development and approval of biosimilar products. the final guidelines included clinical trial guidance for certain biosimilar products, including erythropoietins and g-csfs, recommending that applicants seeking approval of such biosimilar products conduct pharmacodynamic, toxicological and clinical safety studies as well as a pharmacovigilance program. some companies have received and other companies are seeking approval to market erythropoietin and g-csf biosimilars in the eu, presenting additional competition for our products. (see our marketed products face substantial competition.) for example, following the expiration of the principal european patent relating to recombinant g-csf in august 2006, the ec issued marketing authorizations for the first g-csf biosimilar products and the products were launched in certain eu countries in 2008 and 2009. there are now several g-csf biosimilars available in the eu marketed by different companies and these g-csf biosimilar products compete with neupogen® and neulasta®. further, as in an effort to reduce costs, countries in the eu may in the future permit the automatic substitution by pharmacists of biosimilars for the corresponding innovator products. we cannot predict to what extent the entry of biosimilar products or other competing products will impact future sales of our products in the eu. our inability to compete effectively could reduce sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.   on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the ppaca which authorized the fda to approve biosimilar products under a new abbreviated pathway. the new law established a period of 12 years of data exclusivity for reference products in order to preserve incentives for future innovation and outlined statutory criteria for science-based biosimilar approval standards that take into account patient safety considerations. under this framework, data exclusivity protects the data in the innovator’s regulatory application by prohibiting, for a period of 12 years, others from gaining fda approval based in part on reliance or reference to the innovator’s data in their application to the fda. the new law does not change the duration of patents granted on biologic products. as part of the implementation process, the fda published several questions in the federal register for public comment. the fda held a public meeting in november 2010 to seek stakeholder input on the subject and accepted written comments through 2010. the agency has the authority to approve biosimilar products but has not announced whether it will first publish guidance or rules for biosimilar applicants before approving biosimilar products. with the likely introduction of biosimilars in the united states, we expect in the future to face greater competition from 49 table of contents biosimilar products and downward pressure on our product prices, sales and revenues, subject to our ability to enforce our patents. further, biosimilar manufacturers with approved products in europe may seek to quickly obtain u.s. approval now that the regulatory pathway for biosimilars has been enacted. in addition, critics of the 12-year exclusivity period in the biosimilar pathway law will likely seek to shorten the data exclusivity period. president obama’s proposed 2012 budget includes a proposal to lower the data exclusivity period to seven years, but this would require new legislation be passed by the congress. critics may also encourage the fda to interpret narrowly the law’s provisions regarding which new products receive data exclusivity.   we may not be able to develop commercial products.   successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few r&d projects produce a commercial product. we intend to continue to make significant r&d investments. product candidates or new indications for existing products (collectively, “product candidates”) that appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as:     •      the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results, for reasons that could include changes in the standard of care of medicine     •      the product candidate was not effective or more effective than currently available therapies in treating a specified condition or illness     •      the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics     •      the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or animals     •      the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the fda or ema, did not approve our product candidate for an intended use     •      the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize     •      other parties have or may have proprietary rights relating to our product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all     •      we and certain of our licensees, partners or independent investigators may fail to effectively conduct clinical development or clinical manufacturing activities     •      the regulatory pathway to approval for product candidates is uncertain or not well-defined   for example, after discussions with the fda we have decided not to file for approval of motesanib in refractory thyroid cancer until there is more clarity on what would constitute an appropriate regulatory filing package for that indication. further, several of our product candidates have failed or been discontinued at various stages in the product development process. for example, in june 2004, we announced that the phase 2 study of glial cell lined-derived neurotrophic factor (“gdnf”) for the treatment of advanced parkinson’s disease did not meet the primary study endpoint upon completion of nine months of the double-blind treatment phase of the study. the conclusion was reached even though a small phase 1 pilot investigator-initiated open-label study over a three-year period appeared to result in improvements for advanced parkinson’s disease patients. subsequently, we discontinued clinical development of gdnf in patients with advanced parkinson’s disease.   our marketed products face substantial competition.   we operate in a highly competitive environment. our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. our competitors market products or are actively engaged in r&d in areas where we have products, where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. in the future, we expect that our products will compete with new drugs currently in development, drugs currently approved for other indications that may later be approved for the same indications as those of our products and drugs approved for other indications that are used off-label. large pharmaceutical companies and generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical products are expanding into the biotechnology field with increasing frequency. these companies may have greater resources than we do. in addition, some of our competitors may have technical 50 table of contents or competitive advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. these resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products or new product indications that these competitors may bring to market. as a result, our products may compete against products that have lower prices, equivalent or superior performance, better safety profile, are easier to administer or that are otherwise competitive with our products.   concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and consolidation of free-standing dialysis clinic businesses may negatively impact our bargaining power and profit margins.   the substantial majority of our u.s. product sales are made to three pharmaceutical product wholesaler distributors, amerisourcebergen corporation, cardinal health, inc. and mckesson corporation. these distributors, in turn, sell our products to their customers, which include physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. in addition, one of our products, epogen®, is sold primarily to free-standing dialysis clinics, which have experienced significant consolidation. two organizations, davita inc. and fresenius north america own or manage a large number of the outpatient dialysis facilities located in the united states and account for a substantial majority of all epogen® sales in the free-standing dialysis clinic setting. due to this concentration, these entities have substantial purchasing leverage, which may put pressure on our pricing by their potential ability to extract price discounts on our products or fees for other services, correspondingly negatively impacting our bargaining position and profit margins. in october 2006, we entered into a five-year sole sourcing and supply agreement with an affiliate of fresenius north america, on its behalf and on behalf of certain of its affiliates, whereby they have agreed to purchase, and we have agreed to supply, all of fresenius north america’s commercial requirements for esas for use in managing the anemia of its hemodialysis patients in the united states and puerto rico, based on forecasts provided by fresenius north america and subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement.   we rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.   we rely on unaffiliated third-party suppliers for certain raw materials, medical devices and components necessary for the manufacturing of our commercial and clinical products. certain of those raw materials, medical devices and components are the proprietary products of those unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically cited in our drug application with regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source or sources and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved such supplier.   among the reasons we may be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices and components include:     •      regulatory requirements or action by regulatory agencies or others     •      adverse financial or other strategic developments at or affecting the supplier     •      unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials, medical devices or components     •      labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic flu outbreak, natural disaster, or otherwise     •      failure to comply with our quality standards which results in quality and product failures, product contamination and/or recall     •      discovery of previously unknown or undetected imperfections in raw materials, medical devices or components   these events could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could adversely affect our product use, sales and operating results materially. for example, we have experienced shortages in certain components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our products in our puerto rico facility without impact on our ability to supply these products. further, quality issues which result in unexpected additional demand for certain components may lead to shortages of required raw materials or components (such as we have experienced with epogen® glass vials). we may experience or continue to experience these or other shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments, supply constraints, contract disputes and/or stock-outs of our products. 51 table of contents also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial and clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from other countries and/or derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues. in addition, one of our marketed products also uses bovine serum and human serum albumin. some countries in which we market our products may restrict the use of certain biologically derived substances in the manufacture of drugs. we continue to investigate alternatives to certain biological sources and alternative manufacturing processes that do not require the use of certain biologically derived substances because such raw materials may be subject to contamination and/or recall.   a material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restriction of the use of certain biologically derived substances or other raw materials, which may be sourced from other countries and that are used in the manufacture of our products could adversely impact or disrupt the commercial manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated withdrawal of our products from the market. this could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially. further, any disruptions or delays by us or by third-party suppliers or partners in converting to alternatives to certain biologically derived substances and alternative manufacturing processes or our ability to gain regulatory approval for the alternative materials and manufacturing processes could increase our associated costs or result in the recognition of an impairment in the carrying value of certain related assets, which could have a material and adverse affect on our results of operations.   manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.   manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult, complex and highly regulated. we currently manufacture all of our principal products and plan to manufacture many of our product candidates. in addition, we currently use third-party contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the production of enbrel, prolia®, sensipar®/mimpara®, nplate® and xgevatm and plan to use contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the production of a number of our late-stage product candidates. our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our facilities and those of our third-party contract manufacturers, which may be impacted by:     •      availability or contamination of raw materials, components and equipment used in the manufacturing process, particularly those for which we have no other source or supplier     •      capacity of our facilities and those of our contract manufacturers     •      contamination by microorganisms or viruses     •      natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes or fires     •      labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic flu outbreak, natural disaster, or otherwise     •      degree of compliance with regulatory requirements     •      changes in forecasts of future demand     •      timing and actual number of production runs     •      updating of manufacturing specifications     •      production success rates and yields     •      timing and outcome of product quality testing   if the efficient manufacture and supply of our products is interrupted, we may experience delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. for example, over the past several years we have initiated a number of voluntary recalls of certain lots of our products. (see our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval.) if we are at any time unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may lose patients and physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics instead of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales and results of operations. 52 table of contents our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party contract manufacturers must undergo a potentially lengthy fda or other regulatory approval process and are subject to continued review by the fda and other regulatory authorities. it can take longer than five years to build, validate and license a new manufacturing plant and it can take longer than three years to qualify and license a new contract manufacturer. for example, in order to maintain supply and to satisfy anticipated future demand for denosumab, we are qualifying the expansion of our existing bulk protein facilities at our puerto rico site. in addition, we are completing the construction and qualification of a new formulation and filling facility at our puerto rico site in order mitigate the risk associated with the majority of our formulation and fill operations being performed in a single facility. upon completion, these facilities will require licensure by the various regulatory authorities.   if regulatory authorities determine that we or our third-party contract manufacturers or certain of our third-party service providers have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing our products or conducting clinical trials or selling our marketed products until we or the affected third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers comply, or indefinitely. because our third-party contract manufacturers and certain of our third-party service providers are subject to the fda and foreign regulatory authorities, alternative qualified third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers may not be available on a timely basis or at all. if we or our third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us, we may experience delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. additionally, we distribute a substantial volume of our commercial products through a single distribution center in louisville, kentucky for the united states and another in breda, the netherlands for europe and much of the rest of the world. we also conduct all the labeling and packaging of our products distributed in europe and much of the rest of the world in breda, the netherlands. our ability to timely supply products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operations of our distribution and logistics centers, our third-party logistics providers and our labeling and packaging facility in breda. further, we rely on commercial transportation for the distribution of our products to our customers which may be negatively impacted by natural disasters, such as earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, or security threats.   we perform a substantial amount of our commercial manufacturing activities at our puerto rico manufacturing facility and a substantial amount of our clinical manufacturing activities at our thousand oaks, california manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or production failures occur at the puerto rico facility, we may not be able to supply these products or, at the thousand oaks facility, we may not be able to continue our clinical trials.   we currently perform all of the formulation, fill and finish for epogen®, aranesp®, neulasta®, neupogen®, prolia® and xgevatm and substantially all of the formulation, fill and finish operations for enbrel, and all of the bulk manufacturing for aranesp®, neulasta®, and neupogen® at our manufacturing facility in juncos, puerto rico. in addition, we expect/plan to perform substantially all of the bulk manufacturing for prolia® and xgevatm at the puerto rico facility once the facility has been approved by the fda for that purpose. we also perform substantially all of the bulk manufacturing and formulation, fill and finish, and packaging for product candidates to be used in clinical trials at our manufacturing facility in thousand oaks, california. the global supply of our products and product candidates is significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities. a number of factors could adversely affect our operations, including:     •      power failures and/or other utility failures     •      breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment     •      improper installation or operation of equipment     •      labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic flu outbreak     •      inability or unwillingness of third-party suppliers to provide raw materials and components     •      natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes or fires 53 table of contents     •      failures to comply with regulatory requirements, including those of the fda   in the past, the puerto rico facility has experienced manufacturing component shortages and there was evidence of adverse trends in the microbial bioburden of the production environment that reduced the production output. the same or other problems may result in our being unable to supply these products, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially. although we have obtained limited insurance to protect against certain business interruption losses, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. the extent of the coverage of our insurance could limit our ability to mitigate for lost sales and such losses could materially adversely affect our product sales and operating results. our puerto rico facility is also subject to the same difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing experienced in our other manufacturing facilities. for example, the limited number of lots of enbrel and epogen® voluntarily recalled in 2009 and 2010 were manufactured at our puerto rico facility. in future inspections, our failure to adequately address the fda’s expectations could lead to further inspections of the facility or regulatory actions. (see manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.)   if our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire, or if we fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected.   our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. in addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. for certain of our product candidates, there are third parties who have patents or pending patent applications that they may claim necessitate payment of a royalty or prevent us from commercializing these product candidates in certain territories. patent disputes are frequent, costly and can preclude, delay or increase the cost of commercialization of products. we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in patent litigation. (see note 19, contingencies and commitments in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in our annual report.) a patent dispute or litigation may not discourage a potential violator from bringing the product that is alleged to infringe to market prior to a final resolution of the dispute or litigation. for example, despite the ongoing litigation, teva has stated that it intends to sell its filgrastim product, upon approval from the fda, in the united states without a license from us and prior to the expiration of our g-csf patents. the period of time from inception until resolution of a patent dispute or litigation is subject to the availability and schedule of the court, agency or tribunal before which the dispute or litigation is pending. we may be subject to competition during this period and may not be able to fully recover for the losses, damages, and harms we incur from infringement by the competitor product even if we prevail. moreover, if we lose or settle current or future litigations at certain stages or entirely, we could be subject to competition and/or significant liabilities, be required to enter into third-party licenses for the infringed product or technology or be required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. in addition, we cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.   further, under the hatch-waxman act, products approved by the fda under a nda may be the subject of patent litigation with generic competitors before the five year period of data exclusivity provided for under the hatch-waxman act has expired and prior to the expiration of the patents listed for the product.   over the next several years, the existing patents on our principal products will begin to expire. (see item 1. business — marketed products.) as our patents expire, competitors may be able to legally produce and market similar products or technologies, including biosimilars, which may result in a reduction in the use and sales of our products. while we have, and we continue to seek, additional patent protection on certain of our products, including for specific processes for making our products, formulations and particular uses of our products, competitors may be able to design around or otherwise circumvent any such additional patents and sell competing products. although we continue to develop and obtain patent protection for new product candidates, we may not be able to replace the revenue lost upon the expiration of the patents on our current products. 54 table of contents in recent years, policymakers have proposed reforming u.s. patent laws and regulations. for example, patent reform legislation was introduced in both the house and the senate during the 111th congress in 2009 but was not adopted into law. legislation was again introduced in the senate and passed the senate judiciary committee on february 3, 2011. in general, the proposed legislation attempts to address issues surrounding the increase in patent litigation by, among other things, establishing new procedures for challenging patents. while we cannot predict what form any new patent reform laws or regulations may ultimately take, final legislation could introduce new substantive rules and procedures for challenging patents, and certain reforms that make it easier for competitors to challenge our patents could have a material adverse effect on our business.   our business may be affected by litigation and government investigations.   we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings. (see note 19, contingencies and commitments in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in our annual report.) civil and criminal litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in excessive verdicts, fines, penalties, exclusion from the federal healthcare programs and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. defense of litigation claims can be expensive, time-consuming and distracting and it is possible that we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or change the way we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. in addition, product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. we may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management’s attention, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. amgen and immunex have previously been named as defendants in product liability actions for certain of our products.   we are also involved in government investigations that arise in the ordinary course of our business. we have received subpoenas from a number of government entities, including the u.s. attorney’s offices for the eastern district of new york and the western district of washington, as well as the attorneys general of new york and new jersey. the federal subpoenas have been issued pursuant to the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (18 u.s.c. 3486), and by a federal grand jury, while the attorneys general subpoenas have been issued pursuant to state specific statutes relating to consumer fraud laws and state false claims acts. the government is allowed to use materials produced in response to a section 3486 administrative subpoena in both criminal and civil investigations. in general, the subpoenas request documents relating to the sales and marketing of our products, and our collection and dissemination of information reflecting clinical research as to the safety and efficacy of our esas. based on representations in a u.s. government filing, that became public in may 2009 relating to the massachusetts qui tam action, we now believe the subpoenas we received from the u.s. attorney’s offices for the eastern district of new york and the western district of washington also relate to nine additional qui tam actions which are purportedly pending against amgen, including eight pending in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of new york and one pending in the u.s. district court for the western district of washington. the u.s. government filing further alleges that a large number of states are involved in the qui tam investigations, led by the state of new york. these investigations are represented to be joint criminal and civil investigations.   throughout these investigations, and in litigation, the government entities are asserting that we violated various state and federal laws. these investigations are very burdensome, expensive and time-consuming for us to explain and defend to these entities. although we cannot predict whether additional proceedings may be initiated against us, or predict when these matters may be resolved, it is not unusual for investigations such as these to continue for a considerable period of time and to require management’s attention and significant legal expense. a determination that we are in violation of the various federal and state laws that govern the sales and marketing of our products could result in federal criminal liability and/or federal or state civil or administrative liability, and thus could result in substantial financial damages or criminal penalties and possible exclusion from future participation in the medicare and medicaid programs. in addition, we may see new governmental investigations of or actions against us citing novel theories of recovery. any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows in the period in which such liabilities are incurred. 55 table of contents our stock price is volatile.   our stock price, like that of our peers in the biotechnology industry, is volatile. our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. events such as a delay in product development or even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause financial results for a period to be below our expectations or projections. as a result, our revenues and operating results and, in turn, our stock price may be subject to significant fluctuations.   the capital and credit markets may experience extreme volatility and disruption which may lead to uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors. historically, we have occasionally and opportunistically accessed the capital markets to support certain business activities including acquisitions, in-licensing activities, share repurchases and to refinance existing debt. in the event of adverse capital and credit market conditions, we may not be able to obtain capital market financing on similar favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit rating agencies could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities.   current economic conditions may magnify certain risks that affect our business.   our operations and performance have been, and may continue to be, affected by economic conditions. sales of our principal products are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including government programs such as medicare and medicaid and private payer healthcare and insurance programs. (see our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.) in the united states, there is an increased focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs. financial pressures may cause government or other third-party payers to more aggressively seek cost containment through mandatory discounts on our products, policies requiring the automatic substitution of biosimilar or generic products or other similar measures. (see we expect to face increasing competition from biosimilar products which could impact our profitability.) additionally, as a result of the current global economic downturn, our third-party payers may delay or be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations. a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from government and/or private payer healthcare programs or increased competition from lower cost biosimilar products could have a material adverse affect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations.   we are exposed to sovereign risk in some european countries where we sell directly to public healthcare systems. economic and fiscal conditions in these countries could affect the amount and timing of the collection of our receivables. for example, the government of greece has issued one-, two- and three-year zero-coupon bonds to various pharmaceutical vendors in lieu of payment of past due receivables dating from 2007 to 2009.   in addition, as a result of the economic downturn, some employers may seek to reduce costs by reducing or eliminating employer group healthcare plans or transferring a greater portion of healthcare costs to their employees. job losses or other economic hardships may also result in reduced levels of coverage for some individuals, potentially resulting in lower levels of healthcare coverage for themselves or their families. these economic conditions may affect patients’ ability to afford healthcare as a result of increased co-pay or deductible obligations, greater cost sensitivity to existing co-pay or deductible obligations, lost healthcare insurance coverage or for other reasons. we believe such conditions have led and could continue to lead to changes in patient behavior and spending patterns that negatively affect usage of certain of our products, including delaying treatment, rationing prescription medications, leaving prescriptions unfilled, reducing the frequency of visits to healthcare facilities, utilizing alternative therapies and/or foregoing healthcare insurance coverage. in addition to its effects on consumers, the economic downturn may have also increased cost sensitivities among medical providers in the united states, such as oncology clinics, particularly in circumstances where providers may experience challenges in the collection of patient co-pays or be forced to absorb treatment costs as a result of coverage decisions or reimbursement terms. collectively, we believe these changes have resulted and may continue to result in reduced demand for our products, which could continue to adversely affect our business and results of operations. any resulting decrease in demand 56 table of contents for our products could also cause us to experience excess inventory write-offs and/or excess capacity or impairment charges at certain of our manufacturing facilities.   additionally, we rely upon third-parties for certain parts of our business, including licensees and partners, wholesale distributors of our products, contract clinical trial providers, contract manufacturers and single third-party suppliers. because of the recent volatility in the financial markets, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by these third-parties which could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. current economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of our distributors, customers and suppliers to obtain liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials and to perform their obligations under agreements with us, which could disrupt our operations. further, economic conditions appear to have affected, and may continue to affect, the business practices of our wholesale distributors in a manner that has and may continue to contribute to lower sales of our products. for example, in the first quarter of 2009, certain of our wholesale distributors lowered their levels of inventory on hand, which we believe was done to reduce their carrying costs and improve their results of operations. although we monitor our distributors’, customers’ and suppliers’ financial condition and their liquidity in order to mitigate our business risks, some of our distributors, customers and suppliers may become insolvent, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations.   we maintain a significant portfolio of investments disclosed as cash equivalents and marketable securities on our consolidated balance sheet. the value of our investments may be adversely affected by interest rate fluctuations, downgrades in credit ratings, illiquidity in the capital markets and other factors that may result in other than temporary declines in the value of our investments. any of those events could cause us to record impairment charges with respect to our investment portfolio or to realize losses on the sale of investments.   guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products.   government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. however, professional societies, health technology assessment organizations, practice management groups, insurance carriers, physicians, private health/science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators and payers, and patient communities. recommendations by government agencies or those other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies as well as reimbursement of our products by government and private payers. recommendations or guidelines that are followed by patients, healthcare providers and payers could result in decreased use and/or dosage of our products. some examples of agency and organizational guidelines include:     •      in august 2007, the national kidney foundation (“nkf”) distributed to the nephrology community final updated kidney disease outcomes quality initiative (“kdoqi”) clinical practice guidelines and clinical practice recommendations for anemia in ckd. the nkf-kdoqitm anemia work group recommended in its 2007 update to the nkf-kdoqitm anemia management guidelines that physicians target hb in the range of 11 g/dl to 12 g/dl, and also stipulated that the target not be above 13 g/dl.     •      in december 2008, the kidney disease: improving global outcomes group (“kdigo”), a not-for-profit foundation managed by nkf, announced that it was developing a new global anemia guideline. the announcement stated that an updated anemia guideline is necessary in light of new study results, particularly the data from the treat trial, which had become available since the nkf-kdoqitm’s clinical practice guidelines and clinical practice recommendations for anemia in ckd were released. kdigo has stated that its new guidelines are expected to be released for public review and comment in early to mid-2011 and that final guidelines could be available by early 2012.     •      in february 2007, following the reported results from our anemia of cancer 103 study, the u.s. pharmacopoeia dispensing information drug reference guides removed aranesp® in the treatment of anemia of cancer. 57 table of contents   in addition, health technology assessment organizations, such as nice in the united kingdom and the canadian agency for drugs and technologies in health, make reimbursement recommendations to payers in their jurisdictions based on the clinical effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and service impact of new, emerging and existing medicines and treatments.   any recommendations or guidelines that result in decreased use, dosage or reimbursement of our products could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially. in addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use and dosage of our products could adversely affect the market price for our common stock.   the commercialization of certain of our product candidates and the marketing of certain of our products is dependent in part on our partners.   we have entered into agreements with third parties to assist in the commercialization of certain of our product candidates and the marketing of certain of our products in specified geographic areas. (see business relationships.) many of these agreements involve the sharing of certain decisions and a division of responsibilities, costs and benefits. if our partners fail to effectively deliver on their marketing and commercialization commitments to us or if we and our partners fail to coordinate our efforts effectively, sales of our products may be materially adversely affected.   our corporate compliance and risk mitigation programs cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable u.s. federal and state regulations and all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or that we effectively manage all operational risks.   the development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation in the united states and to extensive regulation in foreign countries. (see our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval and manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.) while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable u.s. federal and state regulations and/or laws or all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws. if we or our agents fail to comply with any of those regulations and/or laws, a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation. additionally, while we have implemented numerous risk mitigation measures, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to effectively mitigate all operational risks. if we fail to effectively mitigate all operational risks, our product supply may be materially adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of operations.   continual process improvement efforts may result in the carrying value of certain existing manufacturing facilities or other assets becoming impaired or other related charges being incurred   our business continues to face many challenges. in response to these challenges, we have worked and continue to work to improve cost efficiencies and to reduce discretionary expenditures. as part of those efforts, we undertake continuous process improvement activities to evaluate our processes and procedures in order to identify opportunities for achieving greater efficiencies in how we conduct our business. in particular, we evaluate our manufacturing operations to identify opportunities to increase production yields and/or success rates as well as capacity utilization. depending on the timing and outcomes of these process improvement initiatives, the carrying value of certain manufacturing or other assets may not be fully recoverable and could result in the recognition of impairment and/or other related charges. the recognition of such charges, if any, could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. 58 table of contents the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability.   we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and other jurisdictions in which we do business. our provision for income taxes and results of operations in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in applicable tax laws. in addition, president obama’s administration has announced proposals for u.s. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect our provision for income taxes. there are also other tax proposals that have been introduced, that are being considered, or that have been enacted by the u.s. congress or the legislative bodies in foreign jurisdictions that could materially adversely affect our provision for income taxes, tax liabilities or our results of operations. for example, the commonwealth of puerto rico recently enacted tax legislation effective on january 1, 2011 that, in certain circumstances, imposes a temporary excise tax for companies that purchase products from related puerto rico manufacturers.   item 1b.  unresolved