item 1a. risk factors this report and other documents we file with the sec contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our beliefs and our management's assumptions. these statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties facing our business. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may in the future materially and adversely affect our business, operations, liquidity and stock price. our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. sales of all of our principal products are dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and private insurance plans. governments and private payers may regulate prices, reimbursement levels and/or access to our products to control costs or to affect levels of use. we rely in large part on the reimbursement of our principal products through government programs such as medicare and medicaid in the united states and similar programs in foreign countries, and a reduction in the coverage and/or reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. in the united states, there is an increased focus by the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs. for example, the budget control act of 2011 mandated a two percent reduction in government payments for all medicare services (including the administration of separately-billable drugs and payment for drugs in all medicare programs) for federal fiscal years 2013 through 2021. this payment “sequestration” is currently scheduled to begin in 2013 and continue through 2021. the sequestration remains subject to administrative implementation of the budget control act or future statutory revision by congress, who could block, limit or otherwise modify the automatic spending cuts. several alternative deficit reduction proposals have been put forth by president obama and/or congressional committees, including proposals designed to further limit federal healthcare expenditures. while we cannot predict whether any deficit reduction actions will be approved by congress and/or whether a budget sequestration will ultimately occur for medicare services, a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement for drugs and biologics for u.s. healthcare programs as a result of changes such as those that have been proposed or from other changes designed to achieve similar federal budget savings could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. in march 2010 the united states adopted significant healthcare reform through the enactment of the ppaca and the healthcare and education reconciliation act (see item 1. business — reimbursement — u.s. healthcare reform.) a major goal of the healthcare reform law is to provide greater access to healthcare coverage for more americans. accordingly, the healthcare reform law requires individual u.s. citizens and legal residents to maintain qualifying health coverage, imposes certain requirements on employers with respect to offering health coverage to employees, amends insurance regulations regarding when coverage can be provided and denied to individuals, and expands existing government healthcare coverage programs to more individuals in more situations, with most of these changes going into effect by january 2014. we do not expect a significant increase in sales of our products as a result of the 2014 expansions in healthcare coverage. while we cannot fully predict the ultimate impact the healthcare reform law will have on us, or how the law may change due to statutory revision or judicial review, we expect that the new law will continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. public and private insurers have pursued, and continue to pursue, aggressive cost containment initiatives, including increased focus on comparing the effectiveness, benefits and costs of similar treatments, which could result in lower reimbursement rates for our products. a substantial portion of our u.s. business relies on reimbursement from the u.s. federal government under medicare part b coverage. any deterioration in the timeliness or certainty of payment by medicare to physicians, including as a result of changes in policy or regulations, or as a result of operational difficulties, could negatively impact the willingness of physicians to prescribe our products for patients relying on medicare for their medical coverage. most of our products furnished to medicare beneficiaries in both a physician office setting and hospital outpatient setting are reimbursed under the medicare part b asp payment methodology. (see item1. business — reimbursement — reimbursement of our principal products.) asp- based reimbursements of products under medicare may be below or could fall below the cost that some medical providers pay for such products, which could materially and adversely affect sales of our products. private payers also continue to seek to reduce their costs. insurance plans administered by private companies frequently adopt their own payment or reimbursement reductions. consolidation among managed care organizations may increase the negotiating power of these entities, potentially resulting in lower reimbursement rates for our products. private third-party payers increasingly employ formularies to control costs by 35 negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion and/or favorable formulary positioning. private health insurance companies also are increasingly adopting utilization management tools, such as prior authorization in order to limit payment to uses of the product that are in accordance with the fda approved labeling or step therapy to ensure that payment for a branded product is only made if the patient has first failed a cheaper generic product. consistent with recent healthcare reforms, we anticipate that future trends will include greater reliance upon comparative effectiveness to make formulary decisions. additionally, private payers are experimenting with new models of payment whereby reimbursement for health care providers may be linked to bundled or capitated payments. under these payment systems, providers would get a fixed payment amount to cover a broad range of products and services provided to each patient and would be significantly incentivized to utilize the lowest cost product or service, regardless of its overall benefit to the patient, or to minimize the provision of services. to the extent that such changes affect the price we receive for our products or the level of coverage and reimbursement available when healthcare providers prescribe our products, they could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations.   we also face risks relating to the reporting of pricing data that affects the u.s. reimbursement of and discounts for our products. asp data are calculated by the manufacturer based on a formula defined by statute and regulation and are then submitted to cms. cms uses those asp data to determine the applicable reimbursement rates for our products under medicare part b. however, the statute, regulations and cms guidance do not define specific methodologies for all aspects of the reporting of asp data. for example, cms has not provided specific guidance regarding the treatment of “bundled sale arrangements” or administrative fees paid to group purchasing organizations in the asp calculation. cms directs that manufacturers make “reasonable assumptions” in their calculation of asp data in the absence of specific cms guidance on a topic, and requires that any such reasonable assumptions be consistent with the general requirements and the intent of the medicare statute, federal regulations and the manufacturer's customary business practices. as a result, we are required to apply our reasonable judgment to certain aspects of calculating asp data. we also submit amp and bp data to the government on a periodic basis. the formulas for those price figures also are defined by statute and regulation and cms similarly has directed manufacturers to make reasonable assumptions in the absence of specific guidance on a topic relating to the calculation of those pricing figures. we are also required to pay rebates to state medicaid programs, when our products are paid for by medicaid, at a rate of 23.1% of the product's amp, or if it is greater, the difference between the product's amp and the bp, subject to various adjustments. the amp and bp regulations require a manufacturer to update previously submitted data for a period not to exceed three years.  our asp, amp, and bp data calculations are reviewed on at least a quarterly basis, and based on such reviews we have on occasion restated previously reported asp, amp, and bp data to reflect changes in calculation methodology, reasonable assumptions, and/or underlying data. if our submitted asp, amp, or bp data are incorrect, we may become subject to substantial fines and penalties or other government enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. in addition, if our calculations of amp and/or bp are incorrect, we also may be required to make additional rebate payments to state medicaid programs. in addition, the ppaca revised the definition of amp, effective with submissions for the fourth quarter 2010, and in february 2012 cms issued a proposed rule further clarifying the new amp definition and other aspects of the amp and bp calculations, and subsequently accepted public comments on the proposed rule. until that rule is final, which is expected to occur later in 2013, we will be required to apply our reasonable judgment in certain aspects of the amp and bp calculations. a significant change in the final rule regarding the amp definition or the amp and bp calculations could require us to pay higher rebates to state medicaid programs in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. other initiatives reviewing the coverage or reimbursement of our products could result in less extensive coverage or lower reimbursement rates. for example, in july 2007, cms issued an ncd where it determined that esa treatment was not reasonable and necessary for certain clinical conditions and established medicare coverage parameters for the fda-approved esa use in oncology. generally, an ncd is a national policy statement granting, limiting or excluding medicare coverage or reimbursement for a specific medical item or service. we believe the restrictions in the 2007 ncd changed the way esas are used in clinical practice, for example, by decreasing the number of treated patients, the average esa dose and the duration of esa therapy in the oncology setting. as a result, we believe these restrictions have had a material adverse effect on the use, reimbursement and sales of aranesp®, which in turn had a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the reimbursement of esas in the nephrology setting has also been reviewed by cms. on june 16, 2010, cms opened an nca to examine the use of esas to manage anemia in patients with ckd and dialysis-related anemia. following further analysis, on june 16, 2011, cms issued a fdm in which it determined that it would not issue an ncd at that time for esas for treatment of anemia in adults with ckd. in the absence of an ncd, medicare determinations are made by regional macs, three of which have issued revised lcds relating to anemia in patients with ckd not on dialysis. all of the revised lcds restrict reimbursement of esas to use in accordance with the revised fda label. other macs could also issue lcds that similarly or further restrict reimbursement for esas in this setting, and physician behavior may change to be consistent with the revised label even before formal lcds are implemented, all of which could have a further material adverse effect on the reimbursement, use and sales of aranesp®. additionally, cms could still further review or change the reimbursement of esas in the nephrology setting at some point in the future and/or propose an ncd for esas or other drug topics that could result in less extensive coverage for our products. for example, cms periodically identifies topics for potential future ncds, and while there were no drug products included on the 2012 cms topic list, in prior years that 36 list has included the category of thrombopoiesis stimulating agents (platelet growth factors), the category of drugs that includes nplate®. in the dialysis setting, the reimbursement rates for our products are also subject to downward pressure. in the united states, dialysis providers are reimbursed for epogen® primarily by the federal government through medicare's esrd program. (see item 1. business — reimbursement — reimbursement of our principal products — dialysis reimbursement.) until january 1, 2011, medicare reimbursed for separately billable dialysis drugs (including aranesp® and epogen®) administered in both freestanding and hospital-based dialysis centers at asp +6%, using the same asp payment amount methodology used in the physician clinic setting under part b. on january 1, 2011, cms's bundled-payment system went into effect for dialysis providers which provides a single payment for all dialysis services including drugs, supplies, and non-routine laboratory tests that were previously reimbursed separately. on november 1, 2011, following our june 2011 announcement of changes to the labels for the use of esas in patients with ckd (see item 1. business — marketed products — esas), cms finalized a rule to update various provisions of its bundled-payment system for dialysis services and the related esrd qip. the final rule eliminated for payment year 2013 and beyond one of the qip's measures which tracks the percent of a provider's medicare patients with an hb level below 10 g/dl. (see item 1. business — reimbursement - reimbursement of our principal products — dialysis reimbursement.) cms indicated that removal of this quality measure from the qip was being done in response to the june 2011 esa label changes. we believe that the implementation of these various changes in the dialysis setting has resulted and may continue to result in a material adverse impact on the reimbursement, use and sales of epogen® and on our business and results of operations. under the atra enacted in january 2013, cms was directed to reduce the esrd payment bundle amount effective january 1, 2014 to account for changes in the utilization of drugs and biologics (including aranesp® and epogen®) since the bundle was first implemented in 2011. oral drugs without intravenous equivalents, such as sensipar® and phosphate binders, will continue to be reimbursed separately under the medicare part d benefit until they are included in the bundled-payment system in 2016. however, efforts are underway to get congress to repeal the provision of the atra that postponed the entry of these oral-only drugs into the bundled-payment system; if such efforts are successful, these oral drugs could enter into the bundled-payment system before 2016. inclusion in the bundled-payment system may reduce utilization of these oral drugs and have an adverse impact on our sales. the government-sponsored healthcare systems in europe and many other foreign countries are the primary payers for healthcare expenditures, including payment for drugs and biologics, in those regions. mandatory price controls continue to be a significant aspect of business for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries outside the united states. healthcare reform and related legislative proposals in france, germany and poland, as well as austerity plans in a number of countries, including spain, italy, greece, ireland and portugal, have targeted the pharmaceutical sector with multiple mechanisms to reduce government healthcare expenditures. we expect that countries will continue to take aggressive actions to reduce expenditures on drugs and biologics, including mandatory price reductions, clawbacks of payments made to companies when drug spending thresholds are exceeded, preferences for biosimilars, changes in international price referencing, price transparency to achieve prices similar to those in lower-priced countries, and reductions in the amount of reimbursement, sometimes with the imposition of patient copayments. similarly, fiscal constraints may also impact the extent to which countries are willing to reward new innovative therapies and/or allow access to new technologies or the speed with which they make approval or reimbursement decisions. the proliferation of hta organizations (e.g., nice in the uk and iqwig in germany) has led to determinations of coverage and reimbursement based on both the clinical as well as the economic value of a product; these agencies are also increasingly setting the maximum price at which products will be reimbursed. while we cannot fully predict the extent of further price reductions and/or reimbursement restrictions taken by governmental payers outside the united states or the impact such actions will have on our business, such reductions in price and/or the coverage and reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. additional initiatives addressing the coverage or reimbursement of our products could result in less extensive coverage or lower reimbursement, which could negatively affect sales of our products. if, for any of these or other reasons, reimbursement rates are reduced, or if healthcare providers anticipate reimbursement being reduced, providers may narrow the circumstances in which they prescribe or administer our products, which could reduce the use and/or sales of our products. a reduction in the use and sales of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval. our business is subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including the ema. we are required in the united states and in foreign countries to obtain approval from regulatory authorities before we can manufacture, market and sell our products. once approved, the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial authority to require additional testing, perform inspections, change product labeling or mandate withdrawals of our products. also, legislative bodies or regulatory agencies could enact new laws or regulations or change existing laws or regulations at any time, which could affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products. for example, the 2007 creation of the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007 (fdaaa) 37 significantly added to the fda's authority, allowing the fda to (i) require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies; (ii) mandate labeling changes to products and (iii) require sponsors to implement a rems for a product. failure to comply with fdaaa requirements could result in significant civil monetary penalties, reputational harm and increased product liability risk. in 2012, new pharmacovigilance legislation became effective in the eu that enhanced the authority of european regulatory authorities to require companies to conduct additional post-approval clinical efficacy and safety studies and increased the burden on sponsor companies in terms of adverse event management and reporting and safety data analyses.  as with fdaaa, failure to comply with the new eu pharmacovigilance legislation could result in significant monetary penalties as well as reputational and other harms. we are unable to predict when and whether any further changes to laws or regulatory policies affecting our business could occur, such as efforts to reform medical device regulation or the pedigree requirements for medical products or implement new requirements for combination products, and whether such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval has been and will continue to be increasingly difficult, time-consuming and costly. for example, in october 2009 we received complete response letters from the fda for the bla for prolia® in the treatment and prevention of pmo and in the treatment and prevention of bone loss due to hormone ablation therapy (halt) in breast and prostate cancer patients. the complete response letter related to the pmo indication requested several items, including further information on the design of our previously submitted post-marketing surveillance program. the fda also requested a new clinical program to support the approval of prolia® for the prevention of pmo, updated safety data and stated that a rems is necessary for prolia®. the complete response letter related to the halt indication requested additional information regarding the safety of prolia® in patients with breast cancer receiving aromatase inhibitor therapy and patients with prostate cancer receiving androgen deprivation therapy. the fda specifically requested results from additional adequate and well-controlled clinical trials demonstrating that prolia® has no detrimental effects on either time to disease progression or overall survival. following the submission of further information, including clinical trial data from a number of trials evaluating denosumab in various oncology indications, in september 2011 the fda approved prolia® as a treatment to increase bone mass in women at high risk for fracture receiving adjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy for breast cancer and as a treatment to increase bone mass in men at high risk for fracture receiving androgen deprivation therapy for non-metastatic prostate cancer. in addition, there may be situations in which demonstrating the efficacy and safety of a product candidate may not be sufficient to gain regulatory approval unless superiority to comparative products can be shown. in addition to our innovative products, we are working to develop and commercialize biosimilar versions of six products currently manufactured, marketed and sold by other pharmaceutical companies. (see item 1. research and development and selected product candidates — amgen development of biosimilars.) in many markets there is not yet a legislative or regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilars. in the united states, the u.s. healthcare reform law provided for such a pathway; while the fda is working to establish regulations to implement it, significant questions remain as to how products will be approved under the pathway. (see we expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars.) delays or uncertainties in the development of such pathways could result in delays or difficulties in getting our products approved by regulatory authorities, subject us to unanticipated development costs or otherwise reduce the value of the investments we have made in the biosimilars area. some of our products are approved by u.s. and foreign regulatory authorities on a conditional basis with full approval conditioned upon fulfilling the requirements of regulators. regulatory authorities are placing greater focus on monitoring products originally approved on an accelerated or conditional basis and on whether the sponsors of such products have met the conditions of the accelerated or conditional approvals. vectibix®, for example, received accelerated approval in the united states and conditional approval in the eu, with full approval conditioned on conducting additional clinical trials of the use of vectibix® as a therapy in treating mcrc. (see item 1. business — marketed products — other marketed products — vectibix® (panitumumab).) if we are unable to fulfill the requirements of regulators that were conditions of our products' accelerated or conditional approval and/or if regulators re-evaluate the data or risk-benefit profile of our product in connection with a renewal assessment, our conditional approval may not be renewed or we may not receive full approval for these products or may be required to change the products' labeled indications or even withdraw the products from the market.  following recent fda and fda advisory committee discussions and actions with respect to other therapeutic oncology products previously granted accelerated approval by the fda, questions remain about regulatory authorities' views regarding the adequacy for approval of therapeutic oncology products that have demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in progression-free survival but have not shown a statistically significant improvement in overall survival. a number of our products and product candidates have used endpoints other than overall survival, such as progression-free survival and bone-metastasis-free survival (bmfs), in clinical trials. the use of endpoints such as progression-free survival or bmfs, in the absence of other measures of clinical benefit, may not be sufficient for approval even when such results are statistically significant. for example, our pivotal phase 3 study '147 evaluated xgeva® for its ability to improve bmfs in men with castration-resistant prostate cancer that has not yet spread to bone. the '147 trial demonstrated that xgeva® significantly improved median bone metastasis-free survival by 4.2 months compared to placebo and significantly prolonged median time to first bone metastases. however, overall 38 survival (a secondary endpoint) was similar between the xgeva® and placebo arms. on february 8, 2012, the fda convened the odac to discuss our sbla filing for xgeva® to delay bone metastases in prostate cancer. during its presentation to the odac, the fda questioned the magnitude of the improvement in bmfs demonstrated in study '147, and indicated that a further clinical trial might help address some of the remaining unresolved questions regarding the clinical significance of the benefit achieved by xgeva® in this setting. the odac panel concluded that the magnitude of benefit demonstrated with early treatment with xgeva® to delay bone metastases was not sufficient to conclude a positive risk-benefit ratio for xgeva® in the absence of additional measures impacting quality of life or other disease outcomes. on april 26, 2012, the fda issued a complete response letter to us citing the same conclusion. in addition to the clinical trials that we choose to or are required to conduct, other organizations may also conduct clinical trials that use our products. such clinical trials may evaluate our products in areas in which we do not have and are not seeking an approved indication. however, negative results or safety signals arising in other organizations' clinical trials may nonetheless prompt regulatory agencies to take regulatory actions that affect our approved indications, including requiring the addition of relevant safety data to the approved labeling or even withdrawing approval for our products. the occurrence of a number of high profile safety events has caused an increased public and governmental concern about potential safety issues relating to pharmaceutical and biological products and certain of our products and product candidates. (see our esas continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.) as a result of this increased concern in recent years, the u.s. regulatory environment has evolved and safety signals and safety concerns resulting from preclinical data, clinical trials (including sub-analyses and meta-analyses), market use or other sources are receiving greater scrutiny. for example, a number of regulatory agencies around the world, including the fda and the ema, have initiated programs to directly monitor for safety issues rather than wait for patients, providers or manufacturers to report safety problems with products or medical devices. and at least one private, for-profit company has begun aggregating and analyzing fda adverse event data on its website using its own independent methodology, which could highlight new perceived risks of our products and product candidates. we are required to communicate to regulatory agencies adverse events reported to us by patients taking our products. regulatory agencies may periodically perform inspections of our pharmacovigilance processes, including our adverse event reporting. if regulatory agencies determine that we have not complied with the applicable reporting or other pharmacovigilance requirements, we may become subject to additional inspections, warning letters or other enforcement actions, including monetary fines and other penalties. actual or perceived safety problems or signals could lead to revised or restrictive labeling of our approved products or a class of products, potentially including limitations on the use of approved products in certain patients because of: • the identification of actual or theoretical safety or efficacy concerns with respect to any of our products by regulatory agencies; • an increased rate or number of previously-identified safety-related events; • the discovery of significant problems or safety signals or trends with a similar product that implicates an entire class of products; • subsequent concerns about the sufficiency of the data or studies underlying the label or changes to the underlying safety/efficacy analysis related to results from clinical trials, including sub-analyses, or meta-analysis (a meta-analysis is the review of studies using various statistical methods to combine results from previous separate but related studies) of clinical trials or clinical data performed by us or others; and • new legislation or rules by regulatory agencies. for example, in december 2009, based on the trial to reduce cardiovascular events with aranesp® therapy (treat) results, we updated the boxed warning in the labeling information for esas, to reflect an increased risk of stroke when esas are administered to crf patients to target hb levels of 13 g/dl and above. in october 2010, we submitted additional proposed labeling changes regarding the use of esas in crf patients not on dialysis that would limit treatment to patients who are most likely to benefit, specifically those with significant anemia (<10 g/dl), and who are at high risk for transfusion and for whom transfusion avoidance is considered clinically important, including those in whom it is important to preserve kidney transplant eligibility. in june 2011, we announced that the fda had approved further changes to the labels for the use of esas, including aranesp® and epogen®, in patients with ckd. (with the june 2011 label changes, the fda changed the term crf to ckd in the esa labels. we use crf when referring to labels prior to june 2011 for historical accuracy.) see our esas continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities. 39 in addition to revised labeling for our products, discovery of new safety information or previously unknown safety concerns and/or safety signals with our products or similar products could also lead to: • requirement of risk management activities (including a rems) or other fda compliance actions related to the promotion and sale of our products; • mandated pmcs/pmrs or pharmacovigilance programs for our approved products; • product recalls of our approved products; • revocation of approval for our products from the market completely, or within particular therapeutic areas; • increased timelines or delays in being approved by the fda or other regulatory bodies; and/or • fewer treatments or product candidates being approved by regulatory bodies. product safety concerns could cause regulatory agencies to impose risk management activities upon us (including a rems), which may require substantial costs and resources to negotiate, develop, implement and administer. the results of these risk management activities could: • impact the ability of healthcare providers to prescribe, dispense or use our products; • limit patient access to our products; • reduce patient willingness to use our products; • place administrative burdens on healthcare providers in prescribing our products; and/or • affect our ability to compete against products that do not have a rems or similar risk management activities. we currently have approved rems for our esas, prolia® and nplate®, and we use third-party service providers to assist in the administration of our rems that include elements to assure safe use. for example, our esa rems requires applicable healthcare providers and institutions to enroll in the program, receive education about the product and the rems and document and report certain information to us over time. we are responsible for tracking and documenting certain elements of healthcare provider and institution compliance with the esa rems and providing the fda with periodic assessment reports to demonstrate that the goals of the rems are being met. the fda may modify our rems based on the results of the periodic assessment reports.  also, if we or third-party service providers acting on our behalf fail to effectively implement and/or administer the rems for our products, we may be required to modify such rems, and we may be subject to fda enforcement actions or to civil penalties. further, if new medical data or product quality issues suggest an unacceptable or potential safety risk or previously unidentified side-effects, we may withdraw some or all affected product-either voluntarily or by regulatory mandate-in certain therapeutic areas, or completely recall a product presentation from the market for some period or permanently. for example, in september 2009, we initiated a voluntary recall of a limited number of enbrel sureclick® lots due to a defect in the glass syringe barrel which resulted in a small number of broken syringes following assembly of the autoinjector device. in october 2010, we initiated a voluntary recall of certain lots of enbrel due to identification of cracks in a small number of the glass syringes which may have resulted in product leakage and syringe breakage. further, beginning in september 2010, we initiated a voluntary recall of certain lots of epogen® and j&j voluntarily recalled certain lots of procrit®, manufactured by us, because a small number of vials in each lot were found to contain glass lamellae (extremely thin, barely visible glass flakes) which we believed was a result of the interaction of the product formulation with glass vials during the shelf life of the product. the recalls were executed in close cooperation with the fda. we may experience the same or other problems in the future, resulting in broader product recalls, adverse event trends, delayed shipments, supply constraints, contract disputes and/or stock-outs of our products, which may materially and adversely affect the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. additionally, if we or other parties (including our independent clinical trial investigators or our licensees, such as j&j, pfizer, glaxo and takeda) report or fail to effectively report to regulatory agencies side effects or other safety concerns that occur from their use of our products in clinical trials or studies or from marketed use, resulting regulatory action, including monetary fines and other penalties, could materially and adversely affect the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. 40 global economic conditions may negatively affect us and may magnify certain risks that affect our business. our operations and performance have been, and may continue to be, affected by economic conditions in the united states and throughout the world. sales of our principal products are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including government programs such as medicare and medicaid and private payer healthcare and insurance programs. (see our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.) as more fully explained below, financial pressures may cause government or other third-party payers to more aggressively seek cost containment through mandatory discounts on our products, policies requiring the automatic substitution of generic or biosimilars, higher hurdles for initial reimbursement approval for new products or other similar measures. (see we expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars.) additionally, as a result of the current or a future global economic downturn, our third-party payers may delay or be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations. a reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from government and/or private payer healthcare programs or increased competition from lower cost biosimilars could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. in addition, as a result of the economic conditions and/or employer decisions regarding the insurance coverage mandate that goes into effect in the united states in 2014, some employers may seek to reduce costs by reducing or eliminating employer group healthcare plans or transferring a greater portion of healthcare costs to their employees. job losses or other economic hardships may also result in reduced levels of coverage for some individuals, potentially resulting in lower levels of healthcare coverage for themselves or their families. these economic conditions may affect patients' ability to afford healthcare as a result of increased co-pay or deductible obligations, greater cost sensitivity to existing co-pay or deductible obligations, lost healthcare insurance coverage or for other reasons. we believe such conditions have led and could continue to lead to changes in patient behavior and spending patterns that negatively affect usage of certain of our products, including delaying treatment, rationing prescription medications, leaving prescriptions unfilled, reducing the frequency of visits to healthcare facilities, utilizing alternative therapies and/or foregoing healthcare insurance coverage. in addition to its effects on consumers, the economic downturn may have also increased cost sensitivities among medical providers in the united states, such as oncology clinics, particularly in circumstances where providers may experience challenges in the collection of patient co-pays or be forced to absorb treatment costs as a result of coverage decisions or reimbursement terms. collectively, we believe these changes have resulted and may continue to result in reduced demand for our products, which could materially and adversely affect the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. any resulting decrease in demand for our products could also cause us to experience excess inventory write-offs and/or excess capacity or impairment charges at certain of our manufacturing facilities. in europe, economic conditions across the region could potentially be impacted by countries of key concern, particularly countries in southern europe. economic conditions continue to affect our operations and performance outside the united states as well, particularly in countries where government-sponsored healthcare systems are the primary payers for healthcare expenditures, including drugs and biologics. in southern europe, credit and economic conditions have adversely impacted the timing of collections of our trade receivables in this region. global economic conditions may continue to impact the average length of time it takes to collect payments in greece, italy, spain, portugal or other countries, or we may never collect some or all of these receivables, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating cash flows and a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations. see our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. we also rely upon third parties for certain parts of our business, including licensees and partners, wholesale distributors of our products, contract clinical trial providers, contract manufacturers and single third-party suppliers. because of the recent volatility in the financial markets, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by these third parties which could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. current economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of our distributors, customers and suppliers to obtain liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials and to perform their obligations under agreements with us, which could disrupt our operations. further, economic conditions appear to have affected, and may continue to affect, the business practices of our wholesale distributors in a manner that contributes to lower sales of our products. although we monitor our distributors', customers' and suppliers' financial condition and their liquidity in order to mitigate our business risks, some of our distributors, customers and suppliers may become insolvent, which could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. these risks may be elevated with respect to our interactions with third parties with substantial operations in countries where current economic conditions are the most severe, particularly where such third parties are themselves exposed to sovereign risk from business interactions directly with fiscally-challenged government payers. we maintain a significant portfolio of investments disclosed as cash equivalents and marketable securities on our consolidated balance sheet. the value of our investments may be adversely affected by interest rate fluctuations, downgrades in credit ratings, illiquidity in the capital markets and other factors that may result in other than temporary declines in the value of our investments. any of those events could cause us to record impairment charges with respect to our investment portfolio or to realize losses on the sale of investments. 41 some of our products are used with drug delivery or companion diagnostic devices which have their own regulatory, manufacturing, reimbursement and other risks. some of our products or product candidates may be used in combination with a drug delivery device, such as an injector or other delivery system. our product candidates or expanded indications of our products used with such drug delivery devices may not be approved or may be substantially delayed in receiving regulatory approval if such devices do not gain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance. where approval of the product and device is sought under a single marketing drug application, the increased complexity of the review process may also delay receipt of regulatory approval. in addition, some of these drug delivery devices may be provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party companies. we are dependent on the sustained cooperation and effort of those third-party companies both to supply the devices and, in some cases, to conduct the studies required for approval or clearance by the applicable regulatory agencies. we are also dependent on those third-party companies continuing to meet the applicable regulatory and other requirements to maintain that approval or clearance once it has been received. failure to supply the devices, delays in or failure of the amgen or third-party studies, or failure of the third-party company to obtain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance of the devices could result in increased development costs, delays in or failure to obtain regulatory approval and/or associated delays in a product candidate reaching the market or the expansion of existing product labels for new indications. loss of regulatory approval or clearance of a device that is used with our product may also result in the removal of our product from the market. similarly, some of our products or product candidates may be used in combination with an in vitro companion diagnostic device, such as a test kit. in some cases, our product candidates or expanded indications of our products used with in vitro companion diagnostic devices may not be approved or may be substantially delayed in receiving regulatory approval if such devices do not gain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance. for example, the fda has informed us that its approval of vectibix® for the first- and second-line mcrc indications we are seeking will be contingent upon approval of the companion diagnostic device being developed in collaboration with qiagen, which identifies a patient's kras gene status. as with drug delivery devices used with our products, our ability to get and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals for our products or product candidates used with in vitro companion diagnostic devices can be substantially dependent on whether the manufacturers of such devices meet their contractual responsibilities to us and/or their obligations to regulatory authorities. failures by these manufacturers can also result in the significant delays and added costs described above, or even result in the removal of our product from the market. the in vitro companion diagnostic and drug delivery devices used with our products are also subject to many of the same reimbursement risks and challenges to which our products are subject. (see our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.) a reduction in the availability of, or the coverage and/or reimbursement for, in vitro companion diagnostic or drug delivery devices used with our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. our esas continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities. beginning in 2006, adverse safety results involving esas were observed and since that time our esas have been the subject of ongoing review and scrutiny by regulatory authorities and other agencies. in the united states, over this time frame the fda has reviewed the benefit-risk profile of esas, which has resulted in changes to esa labeling and usage in both the oncology and nephrology clinical settings. over this same time period, cms has also evaluated the use of esas and has made substantial reimbursement changes in the oncology and nephrology clinical settings. (see our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.) together, these labeling and reimbursement changes, along with the approved rems for esas, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on sales of our esas, our business and results of operations, and further labeling or reimbursement changes by these regulatory authorities could increase the severity of that effect. we have also agreed with the fda to conduct a number of pmcs for our esas. in 2004, we agreed with the fda to a robust pharmacovigilance program to continue to study the safety surrounding the use of darbepoetin alfa in the oncology setting. of the five studies originally included in that pharmacovigilance program, four are complete and analysis of the results from the fifth study, lhn03-6b, is currently ongoing. the results of certain of those studies contributed to safety-related product labeling changes for our esas and changes in reimbursement, as noted above. other trials have subsequently been initiated to inform on the safety of esas. in 2009 we initiated study '782, a phase 3 non-inferiority study evaluating overall survival when comparing nsclc patients on aranesp® to patients receiving placebo, as part of our aranesp® pharmacovigilance program. in addition, jrd's epo-ane-3010 study, which evaluates the use of epoetin alfa in patients with breast cancer, is ongoing. both of these studies are designated by the fda as pmrs and must be conducted to maintain regulatory approval and marketing authorization. for the nephrology setting, we have been engaged in ongoing discussions with the fda regarding additional pmrs to explore alternative esa dosing strategies in ckd patients on dialysis and not on dialysis. in july 2012 we initiated study '226 to evaluate aranesp® use in ckd patients not on dialysis. we expect to discuss further with the fda another potential study in ckd patients on dialysis. although we cannot predict the results or the outcomes of ongoing clinical trials, or the extent to which regulatory authorities may 42 require additional labeling changes as a result of these or other trials, we cannot exclude the possibility that unfavorable results from clinical trials, including pmcs, could have a material adverse effect on the reimbursement, use and sales of our esas and on our business and results of operations.    regulatory authorities outside the united states have also reviewed and scrutinized the use of esas. in june 2008, the ema recommended updating the product information for esas with a new warning for their use in cancer patients, which was approved by the ec in october 2008. following the october 2008 revision, we experienced a reduction of aranesp® sales in the supportive cancer care setting in the eu. in addition, following the june 2011 esa label changes in the united states, regulatory agencies outside the united states have sought additional information from us about the use and safety of esas in the ckd setting. additional labeling or reimbursement changes by these regulatory authorities could materially and adversely affect the reimbursement, use and sales of our esas, our business and results of operations. we continue to receive results from meta-analyses or previously initiated clinical trials using esas, including pmcs. for example, in may 2009, the cochrane collaboration published its independent meta-analysis of patient-level data from previously conducted, randomized, controlled, clinical studies evaluating esas in cancer patients which we submitted to the fda and the ema. this cochrane meta-analysis of patient-level data from previous studies corroborates prior analyses indicating that the use of esas may increase the risk of death in cancer patients. the studies in the analysis all predate the current label, which advises using the least amount of esa necessary to avoid transfusion, but they do not exclude the potential for adverse outcomes when esas are prescribed according to the current label. in addition, in january 2013 we announced data from the red-hf® trial evaluating the effect of treatment of anemia with darbepoetin alfa on morbidity and mortality in patients with symptomatic left ventricular heart failure. the trial did not meet its primary endpoint of reducing the composite endpoint of time to death from any cause or first hospital admission for worsening heart failure. while there were no new safety findings identified in the red-hf® trial, unfavorable results from similar trials or meta-analyses of previous clinical trials could materially and adversely affect the use and sales of our esas, our business and results of operations. we must conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications. before we can sell any products, we must conduct clinical trials to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. the results of those clinical trials are used as the basis to obtain approval from regulatory authorities such as the fda and ema. (see our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval.) we are required to conduct clinical trials using an appropriate number of trial sites and patients to support the product label claims. the length of time, number of trial sites and patients required for clinical trials vary substantially and therefore, we may spend several years and incur substantial expense in completing certain clinical trials. we may have difficulty finding a sufficient number of clinical trial sites and subjects to participate in our clinical trials, particularly if competitors are conducting similar clinical trials in certain patient populations. delays in planned clinical trials can result in increased development costs, delays in regulatory approvals, associated delays in product candidates reaching the market and revisions to existing product labels. in addition, in order to increase the number of patients available for enrollment for our clinical trials, we have and will continue to open clinical sites and enroll patients in a number of new geographic locations where our experience conducting clinical trials is more limited, including russia, india, china, south korea, the philippines, singapore and some central and south american countries either through utilization of third-party contract clinical trial providers entirely or in combination with local staff. conducting clinical trials in locations where we have limited experience requires substantial time and resources to identify and understand the unique regulatory environments of individual countries. further, we must ensure the timely production, distribution and delivery of the clinical supply of our product candidates to the numerous and varied clinical trial sites. if we fail to adequately manage the design, execution and regulatory aspects of our large, complex and regulatorily diverse clinical trials or manage the production or distribution of our clinical supply, corresponding regulatory approvals may be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our product candidates or could lose our ability to market existing products in certain therapeutic areas or altogether. if we are unable to market and sell our product candidates or are unable to obtain approvals in the timeframe needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. additional information on our clinical trials can be found on our website at www.amgen.com. (this website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing.) we rely on independent third-party clinical investigators to recruit subjects and conduct clinical trials in accordance with the applicable study protocols and laws and regulations. we also may acquire companies that have ongoing clinical trials. these trials may not be conducted to the same standards as ours; however, once an acquisition has been completed we assume responsibility for the conduct of the trial, including any potential risks and liabilities associated with the past and prospective conduct of those trials. if regulatory authorities determine that we or others, including our licensees or the independent investigators selected by 43 us or by a company we have acquired, have not complied with regulations in the r&d of a product candidate, a new indication for an existing product or information to support a current indication, they may refuse to accept trial data from the site, not approve the product candidate or new indication or maintain approval of the current indication in its current form or at all, and we would not be able to market and sell it. if we were unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. further, we rely on unaffiliated third-party vendors to perform certain aspects of our clinical trial operations. in addition, some of our clinical trials involve drugs manufactured and marketed by other pharmaceutical companies. these drugs may be administered in a clinical trial in combination with one of our product candidates or in a head-to-head study comparing the products' relative efficacy and safety. in the event that any of these vendors or pharmaceutical companies have unforeseen issues that negatively impact the quality of their work or creates a shortage of supply, our ability to complete our applicable clinical trials and/or evaluate clinical results may also be negatively impacted. as a result, this could adversely affect our ability to file for, gain or maintain regulatory approvals worldwide on a timely basis, if at all. patients may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects in the course of our, our licensees, partners or independent investigators' clinical trials which could: • delay the clinical trial program; • require additional or longer trials to gain approval; • prohibit regulatory approval of our product candidates or new indications for existing products; and • render the product candidate commercially unfeasible or limit our ability to market existing products completely or in certain therapeutic areas. safety signals, trends, adverse events or results from clinical trials or studies performed by us or by others (including our licensees or independent investigators) or from the marketed use of our drugs or similar products that result in revised safety-related labeling or restrictions on the use of our approved products could negatively impact healthcare provider prescribing behavior, use and sales of our products, regulatory or private health organization medical guidelines and reimbursement for our products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. clinical trials must be designed based on the current standard of medical care. however in certain diseases, such as cancer, the standard of care is evolving rapidly. in these diseases, the duration of time needed to complete certain clinical trials may result in the design of such clinical trials being based on an out of date standard of medical care, limiting the utility and application of such trials. we may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for new product candidates, new indications for existing products or maintenance of our current labels on this basis. further, clinical trials conducted by others, including our licensees, partners or independent investigators, may result in unfavorable clinical trials results that may call into question the safety of our products in off-label or on label uses that may result in label restrictions and/or additional trials. even after a product is on the market, safety concerns may require additional or more extensive clinical trials as part of a pharmacovigilance program of our product or for approval of a new indication. for example, we initiated study '782 as part of our aranesp® oncology pharmacovigilance program. (see our esas continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.) in connection with the june 2011 esa label changes, we also agreed to conduct additional clinical trials examining the use of esas in ckd. additional clinical trials we initiate, including those required by the fda, could result in substantial additional expense and the outcomes could result in additional label restrictions or the loss of regulatory approval for an approved indication, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. additionally, any negative results from such trials could materially affect the extent of approvals, the use, reimbursement and sales of our products. we expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars. we currently face competition in europe from biosimilars, and we expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars in the future. in 2010, lawmakers in the united states enacted healthcare reform legislation which included an abbreviated regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilars. the eu is already approving biosimilars under such a regulatory pathway. to the extent that governments adopt more permissive approval frameworks and competitors are able to obtain broader marketing approval for biosimilars, our products will become subject to increased competition. expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger such competition, and we could face more litigation regarding the validity and/or scope of our patents. our 44 products may also experience greater competition from lower-cost generic or biosimilars that come to market as branded products that compete with our products lose patent protection. in the eu, the ec has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. in 2006, the ema developed and issued regulatory guidelines related to the development and approval of biosimilars. the guidelines included clinical trial guidance for certain biosimilars, including erythropoietins and g-csfs, recommending that applicants seeking approval of such biosimilars conduct pharmacodynamic, toxicological and clinical safety studies as well as a pharmacovigilance program. some companies have received and other companies are seeking approval to market erythropoietin and g-csf biosimilars in the eu, presenting additional competition for our products. (see our marketed products face substantial competition.) for example, following the expiration of the principal european patent relating to recombinant g-csf in august 2006, the ec issued marketing authorizations for the first g-csf biosimilars and the products were launched in certain eu countries in 2008 and 2009. there are now several g-csf biosimilars available in the eu marketed by different companies and these g-csf biosimilars compete with neupogen® and neulasta®. in december 2012, ema guidelines on the approval process for monoclonal antibody biosimilars became effective. in an effort to spur biosimilar utilization and/or increase potential health care savings, countries in the eu may adopt biosimilar uptake measures such as requiring physician prescribing quotas or automatic substitution by pharmacists of biosimilars for the corresponding reference products. we cannot predict to what extent the entry of biosimilars or other competing products will impact future sales of our products in the eu. our inability to compete effectively could reduce sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in the united states, with the adoption of the healthcare reform law the fda was authorized to approve biosimilars under a separate, abbreviated pathway. (see our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.) the law established a period of 12 years of data exclusivity for reference products in order to preserve incentives for future innovation and outlined statutory criteria for science-based biosimilar approval standards that take into account patient safety considerations. under this framework, data exclusivity protects the data in the innovator's regulatory application by prohibiting, for a period of 12 years, others from gaining fda approval based in part on reliance or reference to the innovator's data in their application to the fda. the law does not change the duration of patents granted on biologic products. on february 9, 2012, the fda released three draft guidance documents that provide insight into the fda's current thinking on the development of biosimilars and broad parameters for the scientific assessment of biosimilar applications. the documents provide guidance in the development of biosimilar versions of currently approved biological products and indicate that the clinical trials and other steps required for approval of each biosimilar will depend on a variety of factors, including the complexity of the protein, the degree of analytical similarity with the reference product and the potential risks of the product. a growing number of companies have announced their intentions to develop biosimilar versions of existing biotechnology products, including a number of our products. further, biosimilar manufacturers with approved products in europe may seek to obtain u.s. approval now that the regulatory pathway for biosimilars has been enacted. in addition, critics of the 12-year exclusivity period in the biosimilar pathway law will likely seek to shorten the data exclusivity period. president obama's proposed 2013 budget included a proposal to lower the data exclusivity period to seven years, but this would require new legislation be passed by congress. critics may also encourage the fda to interpret narrowly the law's provisions regarding which new products receive data exclusivity. while we are unable to predict the precise impact of the pending introduction of biosimilars on our products, or the degree to which the fda's 2012 biosimilar guidelines will contribute to that impact, we expect in the future to face greater competition in the united states as a result of biosimilars and downward pressure on our product prices and sales, subject to our ability to enforce our patents. (see item 7a. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations — financial condition, liquidity and capital resources.) this additional competition could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. with respect to the biosimilars we are working to develop (see item 1. research and development and selected product candidates — amgen development of biosimilars), a number of other companies have announced their intention to develop biosimilar versions of the same reference products that we are pursuing. some of these companies may be ahead of us in their biosimilar development timelines, have certain technical or other advantages over us or have more experience producing or marketing generic or biosimilar products. even if we are able to successfully get our biosimilar product candidates approved by regulatory authorities, this additional competition could limit the ability of our biosimilars to gain market acceptance with prescribers or payors or otherwise affect the sales of our biosimilars. we may not be able to develop commercial products. successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few r&d projects produce a commercial product. we intend to continue to make significant r&d investments. product candidates or new indications for existing products (collectively, “product candidates”) that appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: 45 • the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results, for reasons that could include changes in the standard of care of medicine; • the product candidate was not effective or more effective than currently available therapies in treating a specified condition or illness; • the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics; • the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or animals; • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the fda or ema, did not approve our product candidate for an intended use; • the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize; • the biosimilar product candidate fails to demonstrate the requisite bioequivalence to the applicable reference product, or is otherwise determined to be unacceptable for purposes of safety or efficacy, to gain approval under the biosimilar pathway; • other parties have or may have proprietary rights relating to our product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all; • we and certain of our licensees, partners or independent investigators may fail to effectively conduct clinical development or clinical manufacturing activities; and • the regulatory pathway to approval for product candidates is uncertain or not well-defined. several of our product candidates have failed or been discontinued at various stages in the product development process. for example, in june 2004, we announced that the phase 2 study of glial cell lined-derived neurotrophic factor (gdnf) for the treatment of advanced parkinson's disease did not meet the primary study endpoint upon completion of nine months of the double-blind treatment phase of the study. the conclusion was reached even though a small phase 1 pilot investigator-initiated open-label study over a three-year period appeared to result in improvements for advanced parkinson's disease patients. subsequently, we discontinued clinical development of gdnf in patients with advanced parkinson's disease. inability to bring a product to market or a significant delay in the expected approval and related launch date of a new product for any of the reasons discussed could potentially have a negative impact on our net sales and earnings and could result in a significant impairment of in-process research and development (ipr&d) or other intangible assets.  our marketed products face substantial competition. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. our competitors market products or are actively engaged in r&d in areas where we have products, where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. in the future, we expect that our products will compete with new drugs currently in development, drugs currently approved for other indications that may later be approved for the same indications as those of our products and drugs approved for other indications that are used off-label. large pharmaceutical companies and generics manufacturers of pharmaceutical products are expanding into the biotechnology field with increasing frequency, and some pharmaceutical companies and generics manufacturers have formed partnerships to pursue biosimilars. in addition, some of our competitors may have technical, competitive or other advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. these advantages may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products or new product indications that these competitors may bring to market. as a result, our products may compete against products that have lower prices (including new generics or biosimilars that come to market as branded products that compete with our products lose patent protection), equivalent or superior performance, better safety profile, are easier to administer, achieve earlier entry into the market or that are otherwise competitive with our products. concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and consolidation of free-standing dialysis clinic businesses may negatively impact our bargaining power and profit margins. the substantial majority of our u.s. product sales are made to three pharmaceutical product wholesaler distributors, amerisourcebergen corporation, cardinal health, inc. and mckesson corporation. these distributors, in turn, sell our products 46 to their customers, which include physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. one of our products, epogen®, is sold primarily to free-standing dialysis clinics, which have experienced significant consolidation. two organizations, davita and fresenius medical care north america, own or manage a large number of the outpatient dialysis facilities located in the united states and account for a substantial majority of all epogen® sales in the free-standing dialysis clinic setting. due to this concentration, these entities have substantial purchasing leverage, which may put pressure on our pricing by their potential ability to extract price discounts on our products or fees for other services, correspondingly negatively impacting our bargaining position and profit margins. our business may be affected by litigation and government investigations. we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings. (see note 18, contingencies and commitments, to the consolidated financial statements.) civil and criminal litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in excessive verdicts, fines, penalties, exclusion from the federal healthcare programs and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. defense of litigation claims can be expensive, time-consuming and distracting and it is possible that we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or change the way we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. we may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management's attention and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. amgen and immunex have previously been named as defendants in product liability actions for certain of our products. we are also involved in government investigations that arise in the ordinary course of our business. as we announced on december 19, 2012, we finalized a settlement agreement with the u.s. government, 49 states and the district of columbia to settle certain allegations regarding our sales and marketing practices arising out of ongoing civil and criminal investigations conducted by the u.s. attorney's offices for the eastern district of new york and the western district of washington (the “federal investigations”). as more fully described in note 18, contingencies and commitments, to the consolidated financial statements, this settlement resolved the federal investigations, the related state medicaid claims (except for those of the state of south carolina) and the claims of ten civil qui tam actions that had been pending against us. however, the settlement does not resolve certain of other litigation matters that will continue to be pending against us, and we may also be subject to actions by governmental entities, including those not participating in the settlement, and may in the future become subject to claims by other parties, in each case with respect to the alleged conduct which is the subject of the settlement. we may see new governmental investigations of or actions against us citing novel theories of recovery. any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.   we rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components. we rely on unaffiliated third-party suppliers for certain raw materials, medical devices and components necessary for the manufacturing of our commercial and clinical products. certain of those raw materials, medical devices and components are the proprietary products of those unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically cited in our drug application with regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source or sources and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved such supplier. among the reasons we may be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices and components include: • regulatory requirements or action by regulatory agencies or others; • adverse financial or other strategic developments at or affecting the supplier; • unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials, medical devices or components; • labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic flu outbreak, natural disaster, or otherwise; • failure to comply with our quality standards which results in quality and product failures, product contamination and/or recall; and • discovery of previously unknown or undetected imperfections in raw materials, medical devices or components. these events could negatively impact our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could materially and adversely affect our product use and sales and our business and operating results. for example, in prior years we have experienced shortages 47 in certain components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our products in our puerto rico facility. further quality issues which result in unexpected additional demand for certain components may lead to shortages of required raw materials or components (such as we have experienced with epogen® glass vials). we may experience or continue to experience these or other shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments, supply constraints, contract disputes and/or stock-outs of our products. also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial and clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from other countries and/or derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues. in addition, one of our marketed products also uses bovine serum and human serum albumin. some countries in which we market our products may restrict the use of certain biologically derived substances in the manufacture of drugs. we continue to investigate alternatives to certain biological sources and alternative manufacturing processes that do not require the use of certain biologically derived substances because such raw materials may be subject to contamination and/or recall. a material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restriction of the use of certain biologically derived substances or other raw materials, which may be sourced from other countries and that are used in the manufacture of our products could adversely impact or disrupt the commercial manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated withdrawal of our products from the market. this could negatively impact our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, business and operating results. further, any disruptions or delays by us or by third-party suppliers or partners in converting to alternatives to certain biologically derived substances and alternative manufacturing processes or our ability to gain regulatory approval for the alternative materials and manufacturing processes could increase our associated costs or result in the recognition of an impairment in the carrying value of certain related assets, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult, complex and highly regulated. we currently are involved in the manufacture of all of our principal products and plan to manufacture many of our product candidates. in addition, we currently use third-party contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the production of enbrel, prolia®, sensipar®/mimpara®, nplate®, xgeva® and vectibix® and plan to use contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the production of a number of our late-stage product candidates. our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our facilities and those of our third-party contract manufacturers, which may be impacted by: • availability or contamination of raw materials, components and equipment used in the manufacturing process, particularly those for which we have no other source or supplier; • capacity of our facilities and those of our contract manufacturers; • contamination by microorganisms or viruses; • natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanoes or fires; • labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic flu outbreak, natural disaster, or otherwise; • degree of compliance with regulatory requirements; • changes in forecasts of future demand; • timing and actual number of production runs; • updating of manufacturing specifications; • production success rates and yields; and • timing and outcome of product quality testing. if the efficient manufacture and supply of our products is interrupted, we may experience delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. for example, over the past several years we have initiated a number of voluntary recalls of certain lots of our products. (see our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval.) if we are at any time unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to 48 patients, we may lose patients and physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics instead of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, business and results of operations. our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party contract manufacturers must undergo a potentially lengthy fda or other regulatory approval process and are subject to continued review by the fda and other regulatory authorities. it can take longer than five years to build, validate and license a new manufacturing plant and it can take longer than three years to qualify and license a new contract manufacturer. for example, in order to mitigate the risk associated with the majority of our formulation and fill operations being performed in a single facility, we are completing the construction and qualification of a new formulation and filling facility at our puerto rico site, and we are modifying and expanding our recently acquired formulation, fill and finish manufacturing site in ireland. upon completion, these facilities will require licensure by the various regulatory authorities. if regulatory authorities determine that we or our third-party contract manufacturers or certain of our third-party service providers have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing our products or conducting clinical trials or selling our marketed products until we or the affected third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers comply, or indefinitely. because our third-party contract manufacturers and certain of our third-party service providers are subject to the fda and foreign regulatory authorities, alternative qualified third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers may not be available on a timely basis or at all. if we or our third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us, we may experience delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. additionally, we distribute a substantial volume of our commercial products through our primary distribution centers in louisville, kentucky for the united states and in breda, the netherlands for europe and much of the rest of the world. we also conduct all the labeling and packaging of our products distributed in europe and much of the rest of the world in breda, the netherlands. our ability to timely supply products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operations of our distribution and logistics centers, our third-party logistics providers and our labeling and packaging facility in breda. further, we rely on commercial transportation for the distribution of our products to our customers which may be negatively impacted by natural disasters or security threats. we perform a substantial amount of our commercial manufacturing activities at our puerto rico manufacturing facility and a substantial amount of our clinical manufacturing activities at our thousand oaks, california manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or production failures occur at the puerto rico facility, we may not be able to supply these products or, at the thousand oaks facility, we may not be able to continue our clinical trials.  we currently perform all of the formulation, fill and finish for neulasta®, neupogen®, aranesp®, epogen®, prolia® and xgeva® and substantially all of the formulation, fill and finish operations for enbrel at our manufacturing facility in juncos, puerto rico. we also currently perform all of the bulk manufacturing for neulasta®, neupogen® and aranesp®, all of the purification of bulk epogen® material and substantially all of the bulk manufacturing for prolia® and xgeva® at this facility. we perform substantially all of the bulk manufacturing and formulation, fill and finish, and packaging for product candidates to be used in clinical trials at our manufacturing facility in thousand oaks, california. the global supply of our products and product candidates is significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities. a number of factors could materially and adversely affect our operations, including: • power failures and/or other utility failures; • breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment; • improper installation or operation of equipment; • labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic flu outbreak; • inability or unwillingness of third-party suppliers to provide raw materials and components; • natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes or fires; and • failures to comply with regulatory requirements, including those of the fda. in the past, the puerto rico facility has experienced manufacturing component shortages and there was evidence of adverse trends in the microbial bioburden of the production environment that reduced the production output. the same or other problems may result in our being unable to supply these products, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, business and operating results. although we have obtained limited insurance to protect against certain business interruption losses, there 49 can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. the extent of the coverage of our insurance could limit our ability to mitigate for lost sales and such losses could materially and adversely affect our product sales, business and operating results. our puerto rico facility is also subject to the same difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing experienced in our other manufacturing facilities. for example, the limited number of lots of enbrel and epogen® voluntarily recalled in 2009 and 2010 were manufactured at our puerto rico facility. in future inspections, our failure to adequately address the fda's expectations could lead to further inspections of the facility or regulatory actions. (see manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.) our intellectual property positions may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire, or we may fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation. our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. in addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. for certain of our product candidates, there are third parties who have patents or pending patent applications that they may claim necessitate payment of a royalty or prevent us from commercializing these product candidates in certain territories. patent disputes are frequent, costly and can preclude, delay or increase the cost of commercialization of products. we have been in the past, and may be in the future, involved in patent litigation. a determination made by a court, agency or tribunal concerning infringement, validity, enforceability, injunctive or economic remedy, or the right to patent protection, for example, are typically subject to appellate or administrative review. upon review, such initial determinations may be afforded little or no deference by the reviewing tribunal and may be affirmed, reversed, or made the subject of reconsideration through further proceedings. a patent dispute or litigation may not discourage a potential violator from bringing the product that is alleged to infringe to market prior to a final resolution of the dispute or litigation. for example, until the pennsylvania district court entered final judgment and a permanent injunction against teva on july 15, 2011 pursuant to a joint stipulation and settlement agreement between the parties, teva had announced that it intended to sell its filgrastim product, upon approval from the fda, in the united states without a license from us and prior to the expiration of our g-csf patents. the period of time from inception until resolution of a patent dispute or litigation is subject to the availability and schedule of the court, agency or tribunal before which the dispute or litigation is pending. we may be subject to competition during this period and may not be able to fully recover for the losses, damages, and harms we incur from infringement by the competitor product even if we prevail. moreover, if we lose or settle current or future litigations at certain stages or entirely, we could be subject to competition and/or significant liabilities, be required to enter into third-party licenses for the infringed product or technology or be required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. in addition, we cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. further, under the hatch-waxman act, our products approved by the fda under the fdca may be the subject of patent litigation with generic competitors before expiry of the five year period of data exclusivity provided for under the hatch-waxman act and prior to the expiration of the patents listed for the product. likewise, our innovative biologic products may be the subject of patent litigation prior to the expiration of our patents and, with respect to competitors seeking approval as a biosimilar or interchangeable version of our products, prior to the twelve year exclusivity period provided under the biologics price competition and innovation act of 2009.   over the next several years, certain of the existing patents on our principal products will expire. (see item 1. business — marketed products.) as our patents expire, competitors may be able to legally produce and market similar products or technologies, including biosimilars, which may have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. (see item 7a. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations — financial condition, liquidity and capital resources.) we have received, and we continue to seek, additional patent protection relating to our products, including patents on our products, specific processes for making our products, formulations and particular uses of our products. however, competitors may be able to invalidate, design around or otherwise circumvent our patents and sell competing products. for example, there are a number of competing therapies currently on the market and more in clinical development that are different from enbrel but are used to treat the same inflammatory diseases treated by enbrel. although we continue to develop new products, and obtain patent protection for these new product candidates, we may not be able to replace the revenue lost upon the expiration of the patents on our current products. from time to time, u.s. and other policymakers have proposed reforming the patent laws and regulations of their countries. in september 2011, after years of congressional debate regarding patent reform legislation, president obama signed into law the america invents act (the act) considered by many to be the most substantial revision of u.s. patent law since 1952. the act's 50 various provisions take effect over an 18-month period. the act changes the current “first-to-invent” system to a system that awards a patent to the “first-inventor-to-file” for an application for a patentable invention. this change alters the pool of available materials that can be used to challenge patents and eliminates the ability to rely on prior research work in order to lay claim to patent rights. disputes as to whether the first filer is in fact the true inventor will be resolved through newly implemented derivation proceedings. the act also creates mechanisms to allow challenges to newly issued patents in the patent office in post-grant proceedings and new inter partes reexamination proceedings. although many of the changes bring u.s. law into closer harmony with european and other national patent laws, the new bases and procedures may make it easier for competitors to challenge our patents, which could result in increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. the changes may also make it harder to challenge third-party patents and place greater importance on being the first inventor to file a patent application on an invention. our stock price is volatile. our stock price, like that of our peers in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, is volatile. our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. events such as a delay in product development or even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause financial results for a period to be below our expectations or projections. as a result, our revenues and operating results and, in turn, our stock price may be subject to significant fluctuations. we may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. the capital and credit markets may experience extreme volatility and disruption which may lead to uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors. we may access the capital markets to supplement our existing funds and cash generated from operations in satisfying our needs for working capital; capital expenditure and debt service requirements; our plans to pay dividends and repurchase stock; and other business initiatives we plan to strategically pursue, including acquisitions and licensing activities. in the event of adverse capital and credit market conditions, we may be unable to obtain capital market financing on similar favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit rating agencies could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. however, professional societies, hta organizations, practice management groups, insurance carriers, physicians, private health/science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators and payers, and patient communities. recommendations by government agencies or those other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies as well as reimbursement of our products by government and private payers. recommendations or guidelines that are followed by patients, healthcare providers and payers could result in decreased use and/or dosage of our products. some examples of agency and organizational guidelines include: • in august 2012, the kidney disease: improving global outcomes group (kdigo), a not-for-profit foundation managed by the national kidney foundation (nkf), published its updated global anemia guidelines in light of new study results, particularly the data from the treat trial, which had become available since the nkf-kidney disease outcomes quality initiative (kdoqi™) clinical practice guidelines and clinical practice recommendations for anemia in ckd were released in 2007. the new guidelines recommend, among other things, that esas not be used to maintain hb concentrations above 11.5 g/dl in adult patients with ckd. kdoqi has announced that it is preparing a u.s. commentary on the kdigo global anemia guidelines which is expected to be released in 2013. • in april 2012, the american society of clinical oncology (asco) published a review in which it identified the top five opportunities to improve the quality and value of cancer care by curbing use of common tests and treatments that are not supported by clinical evidence. among asco's suggestions in this review was that oncologists should avoid administering white blood cell stimulating factors (such as neupogen® and neulasta®) to patients who have a very low risk for febrile neutropenia, a position consistent with asco's existing guidelines for the use of white blood cell stimulating factors. in addition, hta organizations, such as nice in the uk and the canadian agency for drugs and technologies in health, make reimbursement recommendations to payers in their jurisdictions based on the clinical effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and service impact of new, emerging and existing medicines and treatments. 51 any recommendations or guidelines that result in decreased use, dosage or reimbursement of our products could materially and adversely affect our product sales, business and operating results. in addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use and dosage of our products could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. the commercialization of certain of our product candidates and the marketing of certain of our products is dependent in part on our partners. we have entered into agreements with third parties to assist in the commercialization of certain of our product candidates and the marketing of certain of our products in specified geographic areas. (see item 1. business — business relationships.) many of these agreements involve the sharing of certain decisions and a division of responsibilities, costs and benefits. if our partners fail to effectively deliver on their marketing and commercialization commitments to us or if we and our partners fail to coordinate our efforts effectively, sales of our products may be materially and adversely affected. our risk mitigation measures and corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we effectively manage all operational risks and that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable u.s. federal and state regulations and all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or other requirements. the development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation in the united states and to extensive regulation in foreign countries. (see our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval and manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.) in addition, our business is complex and involves significant operational risks. while we have implemented numerous risk mitigation measures to comply with such regulations in this complex operating environment, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to effectively mitigate all operational risks. further, we are now operating under a corporate integrity agreement with the u.s. department of health and human services, office of inspector general, which requires us to maintain our corporate compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations. the corporate integrity agreement requires us to make periodic attestations that we are implementing and following the provisions of the corporate integrity agreement, and provides for an independent third-party review organization to assess and report on our compliance. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable u.s. federal and state regulations and/or laws, all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws and/or all requirements of the corporate integrity agreement. if we fail to adequately mitigate our operational risks or if we or our agents fail to comply with any of those regulations, laws and/or requirements of the corporate integrity agreement, a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation. such occurrences could have a material and adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. cost savings initiatives may result in the carrying value of certain existing manufacturing facilities or other assets becoming impaired or other related charges being incurred. our business continues to face many challenges. in response to these challenges, we have worked and continue to work to improve cost efficiencies and to reduce discretionary expenditures. as part of those efforts, we undertake cost savings initiatives to evaluate our processes and procedures in order to identify opportunities for achieving greater efficiencies in how we conduct our business. in particular, we evaluate our manufacturing operations to identify opportunities to increase production yields and/or success rates as well as capacity utilization. depending on the timing and outcomes of these cost savings initiatives, the carrying value of certain manufacturing or other assets may not be fully recoverable and could result in the recognition of impairment and/or other related charges. the recognition of such charges, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and other jurisdictions in which we do business. as a result, our provision for income taxes is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places we operate. significant judgment is required for determining our provision for income tax and our tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. we believe our accrual for tax liabilities is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of the provision for income taxes, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. our provision for income taxes and results of operations in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes 52 in the mix of income and expenses in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in applicable tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations thereof. for example, there are several proposals under consideration in the united states to reform tax law, including proposals that may reduce or eliminate the deferral of u.s. income tax on our unrepatriated foreign earnings. while it is uncertain how the u.s. congress may address u.s. tax policy matters in the future, reform of u.s. taxation, including taxation of income earned outside the united states, continues to be a topic of discussion for the u.s. congress and the administration. a significant change to the u.s. tax system, such as a change to the taxation of income earned outside the united states, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and on the results of our operations. there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase stock. our board of directors has declared quarterly dividends on our common stock since it adopted a dividend policy in 2011. in addition, in december 2012, our board of directors approved an increase in the total authorization for repurchases of our common stock in the amount of $2 billion. this amount was in addition to the approximately $0.5 billion then remaining under the existing stock repurchase authorization. whether we continue and the amount and timing of such dividends and/or stock repurchases are subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends and/or stock repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and agreements of the company applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends and the repurchase of stock. future dividends and stock repurchases, including their timing and amount, may be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions, including acquisitions; debt service requirements; our credit rating; changes to applicable tax laws or corporate laws; and changes to our business model. in addition, the amount we spend and the number of shares we are able to repurchase under our stock repurchase program may further be affected by a number of other factors, including the stock price and blackout periods in which we are restricted from repurchasing shares. our dividend payments and/or stock repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends and/or repurchase stock in any particular amounts or at all. a reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments and/or stock repurchases could have a negative effect on our stock price. the illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or of stolen or diverted products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet the exacting standards of our company's development, manufacturing and distribution processes. counterfeit medicines pose a significant risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured and the lack of regulation of their contents.  counterfeit products are frequently unsafe or ineffective and can be potentially life-threatening. our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit drugs sold under our brand name. in addition, products stolen from inventory, at warehouses, plants or while in transit or unlawfully diverted, which are not properly stored and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business.  public loss of confidence in the integrity of biologics and/or pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting or theft could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. we are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. we are increasingly dependent upon information technology systems and infrastructure. the multitude and complexity of our computer systems make them inherently vulnerable to service interruption or destruction, malicious intrusion and random attack. likewise, data privacy or security breaches by employees or others may pose a risk that sensitive data, including intellectual property, trade secrets or personal information belonging to the company, its patients, customers or other business partners, may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. while we have in the past experienced cyber attacks and intrusions into our computer systems, we do not believe that such attacks have had a material adverse effect on our operations. while we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions, or identify breaches in our systems, that could adversely affect our business and operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive information, which could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to us. our efforts to acquire other companies or products and to integrate their operations may not be successful, and may result in costs, delays or failures to realize the benefits of the transactions. we have an ongoing process of evaluating potential merger, acquisition, partnering and in-license opportunities that we expect will contribute to our future growth and expand our geographic footprint, product offerings and/or our r&d pipeline.  such acquisitions may result in unanticipated costs, delays or other operational or financial problems related to integrating the acquired company and business with our company, which may result in the diversion of our management's attention from other business 53 issues and opportunities. failures or difficulties in integrating the operations of the businesses that we acquire, including their personnel, technology, financial systems, distribution and general business operations and procedures, may affect our ability to grow and may result in us incurring asset impairment or restructuring charges. item 1b. unresolved