item 1a.  risk factors. alcoa’s business, financial condition or results of operations may be impacted by a number of factors. in addition to the factors discussed separately in this report, the following are some factors that could cause alcoa’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements: the aluminum industry generally remains highly cyclical and is influenced by a number of factors including global economic conditions. the aluminum industry generally remains highly cyclical. alcoa is subject to cyclical fluctuations in lme prices, economic conditions generally, and aluminum end-use markets. the global economic downturn that occurred in 2008 and 2009, coupled with the global financial and credit market disruptions, had a historic, negative impact on the aluminum industry and alcoa. these events contributed to an unprecedented decline in lme-based aluminum prices, weak end markets, a sharp drop in demand, increased global inventories, and higher costs of borrowing and/or diminished credit availability. while the economy has recovered from the crisis of the economic downturn and alcoa believes that the long-term prospects for aluminum remain bright, the company is unable to predict the future course of industry variables or the strength, pace or sustainability of the economic recovery and the effects of government intervention. the company implemented a number of operational and financial actions in 2009 and 2010 to improve its cost structure and liquidity, including curtailing production, halting non-critical capital expenditures, accelerating new sourcing strategies for raw materials, divesting non-core assets, reducing global headcount, suspending its share repurchase program, reducing its quarterly common stock dividend and making other liquidity enhancements. however, there is no assurance that these actions, or any others that the company has taken or may take, will be sufficient to counter any future economic or industry disruptions. in addition, there is no assurance that the measures taken by alcoa or any benefits of these measures will be sustainable in a changing or improving business environment. another global economic downturn, prolonged recovery period, or disruptions in the financial markets could have a material, adverse effect on alcoa’s business or financial condition or results of operations. alcoa could be materially adversely affected by declines in aluminum prices. the price of aluminum is frequently volatile and changes in response to general economic conditions, expectations for supply and demand growth or contraction, and the level of global inventories. the influence of hedge funds and other financial investment funds participating in commodity markets has also increased in recent years, contributing to higher levels of price volatility. at the same time, there is often a lag effect for a reduction in lme-linked costs of production. for example, reduction of certain key smelting input costs (such as alumina and power) may lag declining average primary metal revenue by up to 90 days. continued high lme inventories could lead to a reduction in the price of aluminum. industry overcapacity, including decisions by alcoa or its competitors to reactivate idle facilities or build new capacity, could contribute to a weak pricing environment. a sustained weak aluminum pricing environment or a deterioration in aluminum prices could have a material, adverse effect on alcoa’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.   23 table of contents a reduction in demand (or a lack of increased demand) for aluminum by china or a combined number of other countries may negatively impact alcoa’s results. the chinese market is a significant source of global demand for commodities, including aluminum. a sustained slowdown in china’s economic and aluminum demand growth that is not offset by increased aluminum demand growth in other emerging economies such as india, brazil, and several south east asian countries, or the combined slowdown in other markets, could have an adverse effect on the global supply and demand for aluminum and aluminum prices. in addition, china’s investments to increase its self-sufficiency in key commodities may impact future demand and supply balances and prices. alcoa’s operations consume substantial amounts of energy; profitability may decline if energy costs rise or if energy supplies are interrupted. alcoa’s operations consume substantial amounts of energy. although alcoa generally expects to meet the energy requirements for its alumina refineries and primary aluminum smelters from internal sources or from long-term contracts, the following factors could affect alcoa’s results of operations:     •   significant increases in electricity costs rendering smelter operations uneconomic;     •   significant increases in fuel oil or natural gas prices;     •   unavailability of electrical power or other energy sources due to droughts, hurricanes or other natural causes;     •   unavailability of energy due to energy shortages resulting in insufficient supplies to serve consumers;     •   interruptions in energy supply due to equipment failure or other causes; or     •   curtailment of one or more refineries or smelters due to inability to extend energy contracts upon expiration or negotiate new arrangements on cost-effective terms or unavailability of energy at competitive rates. alcoa’s profitability could be adversely affected by increases in the cost of raw materials or by significant lag effects for decreases in commodity or lme-linked costs. alcoa’s results of operations will be affected by increases in the cost of raw materials, including energy, carbon products, caustic soda and other key inputs, as well as freight costs associated with transportation of raw materials to refining and smelting locations. alcoa may not be able to offset fully the effects of higher raw material costs or energy costs through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. similarly, alcoa’s operating results will be affected by significant lag effects for declines in key costs of production that are commodity or lme-linked. for example, declines in lme-linked costs of alumina and power during a particular period may not be adequate to offset sharp declines in metal price in that period. alcoa is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, as well as inflation, and other economic factors in the countries in which it operates. economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, competitive factors in the countries in which alcoa operates, and continued volatility or deterioration in the global economic and financial environment could affect alcoa’s revenues, expenses and results of operations. changes in the valuation of the u.s. dollar against other currencies, particularly the brazilian real, canadian dollar, euro and australian dollar, may affect profitability as some important raw materials are purchased in other currencies, whereas products are generally sold in u.s. dollars. alcoa may not be able to realize expected benefits from its growth projects or portfolio streamlining strategy. as a result of the global economic downturn and as part of the company’s initiative to conserve cash and preserve liquidity, alcoa halted all non-critical capital investment in 2009, except for the now-completed são luís refinery expansion and the greenfield juruti bauxite mine, and the ongoing estreito hydroelectric power project in brazil and   24 table of contents the china and russia growth projects. management believes that these projects will be beneficial to alcoa, however, there is no assurance that these benefits will be realized, whether due to unfavorable global economic conditions, currency fluctuations, or other factors, or that the remaining construction, start-up activities and testing on the estreito project will be completed as planned by the targeted completion date. alcoa has made and may continue to plan and execute acquisitions and divestitures and take other actions to streamline its portfolio. there can be no assurance that such actions will be undertaken or completed in their entirety as planned or beneficial to alcoa or that targeted completion dates will be met. in addition, acquisitions present significant challenges and risks relating to the integration of the business into the company, and there can be no assurances that the company will manage acquisitions successfully. alcoa may face barriers to exit from unprofitable businesses, including high exit costs or objections from various stakeholders. alcoa may not be able to successfully realize goals established in each of its four business segments or by the dates targeted for such goals. alcoa has announced targets for each of its four major business segments, including the following:     •   over the next five years, driving the alumina business down into the first quartile of the industry cost curve and realizing profit levels (per mt) that are beyond its recent historic norms;     •   by 2015, driving the smelting business down into the second quartile of the industry cost curve and increasing profitability (per mt) beyond the company’s past ten year average;     •   by 2013, increasing the revenues of the flat-rolled products segment by $2.5 billion by growing 50% faster than the market and achieving performance levels above its historic norms; and     •   by 2013, increasing the revenues of the engineered products and solutions segment by $1.6 billion, through market growth, new product introductions, and share gains. there can be no assurance that all of these initiatives will be completed as anticipated or that alcoa will be able to successfully realize these goals at the targeted levels or by the projected dates. joint ventures and other strategic alliances may not be successful. alcoa participates in joint ventures and has formed strategic alliances and may enter into other similar arrangements in the future. for example, in december 2009, alcoa announced that it formed a joint venture with ma’aden, the saudi arabian mining company, to develop a fully integrated aluminum complex (including a bauxite mine, alumina refinery, aluminum smelter and rolling mill) in the kingdom of saudi arabia. although the company has, in relation to that joint venture and its other existing joint ventures and strategic alliances, sought to protect its interests, joint ventures and strategic alliances necessarily involve special risks. whether or not alcoa holds majority interests or maintains operational control in such arrangements, its partners may:     •   have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with or opposed to those of the company;     •   exercise veto rights so as to block actions that alcoa believes to be in its or the joint venture’s or strategic alliance’s best interests;     •   take action contrary to alcoa’s policies or objectives with respect to its investments; or     •   as a result of financial or other difficulties, be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture, strategic alliance or other agreements, such as contributing capital to expansion or maintenance projects. in addition, the joint venture with ma’aden is subject to risks associated with large infrastructure construction projects, including the risk of potential, adverse changes in the financial markets that could affect the ability of the joint venture to fully implement its financing plans or to achieve financial close for the phases of the project and the consequences of   25 table of contents non-compliance with the timeline and other requirements under the gas supply arrangements for the joint venture. also, while financing is in place for the smelter and rolling mill, which are viable as standalone operations without the bauxite mine and alumina refinery, there can be no guaranteed assurance that the latter two portions of the project will be fully funded or that the project as a whole will be completed within budget or by the targeted completion date, or that it or alcoa’s other joint ventures or strategic alliances will be beneficial to alcoa, whether due to the above-described risks, unfavorable global economic conditions, lack of financing, increases in construction costs, currency fluctuations, political risks, or other factors. alcoa faces significant competition. as discussed in part i, item 1. (business – competitive conditions) of this report, the markets for most aluminum products are highly competitive. alcoa’s competitors include a variety of both u.s. and non-u.s. companies in all major markets. in addition, aluminum competes with other materials, such as steel, plastics, composites, and glass, among others, for various applications in alcoa’s key markets. the willingness of customers to accept substitutions for the products sold by alcoa, the ability of large customers to exert leverage in the marketplace to affect the pricing for fabricated aluminum products, or other developments by or affecting alcoa’s competitors or customers could affect alcoa’s results of operations. in addition, alcoa’s competitive position depends, in part, on the company’s access to an economical power supply to sustain its operations in various countries. further metals industry consolidation could impact alcoa’s business. the metals industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years, and there may be further industry consolidation in the future. although current industry consolidation has not negatively impacted alcoa’s business, further consolidation in the aluminum industry could possibly have negative impacts that we cannot reliably predict. failure to maintain investment grade credit ratings could limit alcoa’s ability to obtain future financing, increase its borrowing costs, adversely affect the market price of its existing securities, or otherwise impair its business, financial condition and results of operations. currently, alcoa’s long-term debt is rated bbb- with negative outlook by standard and poor’s ratings services; baa3 with negative outlook by moody’s investors services; and bbb- with negative outlook by fitch ratings. there can be no assurance that any rating assigned will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency, if, in that rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. maintaining an investment-grade credit rating is an important element of alcoa’s financial strategy. a downgrade of alcoa’s credit ratings could adversely affect the market price of its securities, adversely affect existing financing, limit access to the capital or credit markets or otherwise adversely affect the availability of other new financing on favorable terms, if at all, result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that the company incurs, increase the cost of borrowing, or impair its business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, under the project financing for the joint venture project in saudi arabia, a downgrade of alcoa’s credit ratings below investment grade by at least two rating agencies would require alcoa to provide a letter of credit or fund an escrow account for a portion or all of alcoa’s remaining equity commitment to the joint venture. for additional information regarding the project financing, see note i to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 (financial statements and supplementary data) of this report. alcoa could be adversely affected by the failure of financial institutions to fulfill their commitments under committed credit facilities. as discussed in part ii, item 7. (management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations – liquidity and capital resources) of this report, alcoa has a committed revolving credit facility with financial institutions available for its use, for which the company pays commitment fees. the facility is provided by a syndicate of several financial institutions, with each institution agreeing severally (and not jointly) to make revolving credit loans to alcoa in accordance with the terms of the credit agreement. if one or more of the financial institutions   26 table of contents providing the committed credit facility were to default on its obligation to fund its commitment, the portion of the committed facility provided by such defaulting financial institution would not be available to the company. alcoa may not be able to realize expected benefits from the change to index pricing of alumina. alcoa has announced its intention to move to a pricing mechanism for alumina based on an index of alumina prices rather than a percentage of the lme-based aluminum price. alcoa believes that this change, expected to affect approximately 20% of annual contracts coming up for renewal each year, will more fairly reflect the fundamentals of alumina including raw materials and other input costs involved. there can be no assurance that such index pricing will be accepted or that such index pricing will result in consistently greater profitability from sales of alumina. alcoa’s global operations are exposed to political and economic risks, commercial instability and events beyond its control in the countries in which it operates. alcoa has operations or activities in numerous countries outside the u.s. having varying degrees of political and economic risk, including china, guinea, russia, and saudi arabia, among others. risks include those associated with political instability, civil unrest, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation or nullification of existing agreements, mining leases and permits, commercial instability caused by corruption, and changes in local government laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, taxation, exchange controls, employment regulations and repatriation of earnings. while the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect alcoa’s business, financial condition or operating results. alcoa could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of a significant customer or customers. a significant downturn or further deterioration in the business or financial condition of a key customer or customers supplied by alcoa could affect alcoa’s results of operations in a particular period. alcoa’s customers may experience delays in the launch of new products, labor strikes, diminished liquidity or credit unavailability, weak demand for their products, or other difficulties in their businesses. if alcoa is not successful in replacing business lost from such customers, profitability may be adversely affected. alcoa may be exposed to significant legal proceedings, investigations or changes in u.s. federal, state or foreign law, regulation or policy. alcoa’s results of operations or liquidity in a particular period could be affected by new or increasingly stringent laws, regulatory requirements or interpretations, or outcomes of significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to alcoa. the company may experience a change in effective tax rates or become subject to unexpected or rising costs associated with business operations or provision of health or welfare benefits to employees due to changes in laws, regulations or policies. the company is also subject to a variety of legal compliance risks. these risks include, among other things, potential claims relating to product liability, health and safety, environmental matters, intellectual property rights, government contracts, taxes, and compliance with u.s. and foreign export laws, anti-bribery laws, competition laws and sales and trading practices. alcoa could be subject to fines, penalties, damages (in certain cases, treble damages), or suspension or debarment from government contracts. while alcoa believes it has adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to address and reduce these risks, the global and diverse nature of its operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and contingencies may arise from time to time. in addition, various factors or developments can lead the company to change current estimates of liabilities or make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. a future adverse ruling or settlement or unfavorable changes in laws, regulations or policies, or other contingencies that the company cannot predict with certainty could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. for additional information regarding the legal proceedings involving the company, see the discussion in part i, item 3. (legal proceedings), of this report and in note n to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. (financial statements and supplementary data).   27 table of contents alcoa is subject to a broad range of health, safety and environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates and may be exposed to substantial costs and liabilities associated with such laws and regulations. alcoa’s operations worldwide are subject to numerous complex and increasingly stringent health, safety and environmental laws and regulations. the costs of complying with such laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and cleanups of sites, as well as internal voluntary programs, are significant and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future. environmental matters for which we may be liable may arise in the future at our present sites, where no problem is currently known, at previously owned sites, sites previously operated by us, sites owned by our predecessors or sites that we may acquire in the future. alcoa’s results of operations or liquidity in a particular period could be affected by certain health, safety or environmental matters, including remediation costs and damages related to several sites. additionally, evolving regulatory standards and expectations can result in increased litigation and/or increased costs, all of which can have a material and adverse effect on earnings and cash flows. climate change, climate change legislation or regulations and greenhouse effects may adversely impact alcoa’s operations and markets. energy is a significant input in a number of alcoa’s operations. there is growing recognition that consumption of energy derived from fossil fuels is a contributor to global warming. a number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory change in response to the potential impacts of climate change. there is also current and emerging regulation, such as the mandatory renewable energy target in australia. alcoa will likely see changes in the margins of greenhouse gas-intensive assets and energy-intensive assets as a result of regulatory impacts in the countries in which the company operates. these regulatory mechanisms may be either voluntary or legislated and may impact alcoa’s operations directly or indirectly through customers or alcoa’s supply chain. inconsistency of regulations may also change the attractiveness of the locations of some of the company’s assets. assessments of the potential impact of future climate change legislation, regulation and international treaties and accords are uncertain, given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in countries in which alcoa operates. the company may realize increased capital expenditures resulting from required compliance with revised or new legislation or regulations, costs to purchase or profits from sales of, allowances or credits under a “cap and trade” system, increased insurance premiums and deductibles as new actuarial tables are developed to reshape coverage, a change in competitive position relative to industry peers and changes to profit or loss arising from increased or decreased demand for goods produced by the company and indirectly, from changes in costs of goods sold. the potential physical impacts of climate change on the company’s operations are highly uncertain, and will be particular to the geographic circumstances. these may include changes in rainfall patterns, shortages of water or other natural resources, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. these effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of alcoa’s operations. adverse changes in discount rates, lower-than-expected investment return on pension assets and other factors could affect alcoa’s results of operations or level of pension funding contributions in future periods. alcoa’s results of operations may be negatively affected by the amount of expense alcoa records for its pension and other postretirement benefit plans. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap) require that alcoa calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial market and other economic conditions, which may change based on changes in key economic indicators. the most significant year-end assumptions used by alcoa to estimate pension or other postretirement benefit income or expense for the following year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and several assumptions relating to employee workforce (salary increases, medical costs, retirement age, and mortality). in addition, alcoa is required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant charge to shareholders’ equity. for a discussion regarding how alcoa’s financial statements can be affected by pension and other   28 table of contents postretirement benefits accounting policies, see part ii, item 7. (management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations) under the caption “critical accounting policies and estimates—pension and other postretirement benefits,” and part ii, item 8. (financial statements and supplementary data) under note w to the consolidated financial statements—pension and other postretirement benefits. although gaap expense and pension funding contributions are not directly related, the key economic factors that affect gaap expense would also likely affect the amount of cash or securities alcoa would contribute to the pension plans. potential pension contributions include both mandatory amounts required under federal law and discretionary contributions to improve the plans’ funded status. union disputes and other employee relations issues could adversely affect alcoa’s financial results. a significant portion of alcoa’s employees are represented by labor unions in a number of countries under various collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates. while alcoa was successful in renegotiating the master collective bargaining agreement with the united steelworkers in june 2010, alcoa may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate other collective bargaining agreements in the u.s. and other countries when they expire. in addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at alcoa’s facilities in the future. alcoa may also be subject to general country strikes or work stoppages unrelated to its business or collective bargaining agreements. any such work stoppages (or potential work stoppages) could have a material adverse effect on alcoa’s financial results. alcoa’s human resource talent pool may not be adequate to support the company’s growth. alcoa’s existing operations and development projects require highly skilled executives, and staff with relevant industry and technical experience. the inability of the company and industry to attract and retain such people may adversely impact alcoa’s ability to adequately meet project demands and fill roles in existing operations. skills shortages in engineering, technical service, construction and maintenance contractors may also impact activities. these shortages may adversely impact the cost and schedule of development projects and the cost and efficiency of existing operations. alcoa may not realize expected long-term benefits from its productivity and cost-reduction initiatives. alcoa has undertaken, and may continue to undertake, productivity and cost-reduction initiatives to improve performance and conserve cash, including new procurement strategies for raw materials, such as backward integration and non-traditional sourcing from numerous geographies, and deployment of company-wide business process models, such as the alcoa business system and the alcoa enterprise business solution (an initiative designed to build a common global infrastructure across alcoa for data, processes and supporting software). there is no assurance that these initiatives will all be completed or beneficial to alcoa or that estimated cost savings from such activities will be realized. alcoa may not be able to successfully develop and implement technology initiatives. alcoa is working on developments in advanced smelting process technologies, including inert anode and carbothermic technology, in addition to multi-alloy casting processes. there can be no assurance that such technologies will be commercially feasible or beneficial to alcoa. alcoa’s business and growth prospects may be negatively impacted by reductions in its capital expenditures. in response to the global economic downturn and related disruptions in the financial markets, alcoa changed its capital expenditures strategy in 2009 as follows: capital expenditure approval levels were lowered dramatically; growth projects were halted where it was deemed economically feasible; and all non-critical capital expenditures were stopped. capital expenditures are deemed critical if they maintain alcoa’s compliance with the law, keep a facility operating, or satisfy customer requirements if the benefits outweigh the costs. alcoa expects to increase its sustaining capital expenditures in 2011 (compared with 2009 and 2010 levels) to meet non-recurring needs, including remediation and rebuilding of certain properties and assets. despite this increase in 2011, capital review processes and limiting overall capital spend will continue in 2011 and beyond.   29 table of contents alcoa requires substantial capital to invest in greenfield and brownfield projects and to maintain and prolong the life and capacity of its existing facilities. if demand for aluminum improves, alcoa’s ability to take advantage of that improvement may be constrained by earlier capital expenditure restrictions and the long-term value of its business could be adversely impacted. the company’s position in relation to its competitors may also deteriorate. alcoa may also need to address commercial and political issues in relation to its reductions in capital expenditures in certain of the jurisdictions in which it operates. if alcoa’s interest in its joint ventures is diluted or it loses key concessions, its growth could be constrained. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. unexpected events may increase alcoa’s cost of doing business or disrupt alcoa’s operations. unexpected events, including fires or explosions at facilities, natural disasters, war or terrorist activities, unplanned outages, supply disruptions, or failure of equipment or processes to meet specifications may increase the cost of doing business or otherwise impact alcoa’s financial performance. further, existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection for all of the costs that may arise from such events. the above list of important factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. item 1b.  unresolved