item 1a. risk factors and the following: significant operating losses in the future; downturns in economic conditions that adversely affect our business; the impact of continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices and significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel; competitive practices in the industry, including the impact of low cost carriers, airline alliances and industry consolidation; the challenges and costs of integrating operations and realizing anticipated synergies and other benefits of the merger transaction with us airways group, inc.; our substantial indebtedness and other obligations and the effect they could have on our business and liquidity; an inability to obtain sufficient financing or other capital to operate successfully and in accordance with our current business plan; increased costs of financing, a reduction in the availability of financing and fluctuations in interest rates; the effect our high level of fixed obligations may have on our ability to fund general corporate requirements, obtain additional financing and respond to competitive developments and adverse economic and industry conditions; our significant pension and other post-employment benefit funding obligations; the impact of any failure to comply with the covenants contained in financing arrangements; provisions in credit card processing and other commercial agreements that may materially reduce our liquidity; the limitations of our historical consolidated financial information, which is not directly comparable to our financial information for prior or future periods; the impact of union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions; any inability to maintain labor costs at competitive levels; interruptions or disruptions in service at one or more of our hub airports; any inability to obtain and maintain adequate facilities, infrastructure and slots to operate our flight schedule and expand or change our route network; our reliance on third-party regional operators or third-party service providers that have the ability to affect our revenue and the public’s perception about our services; any inability to effectively manage the costs, rights and functionality of third-party distribution channels on which we rely; extensive government regulation, which may result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages; the impact of the heavy taxation to which the airline industry is subject; changes to our business model that may not successfully increase revenues and may cause operational difficulties or decreased demand; the loss of key personnel or inability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel; the impact of conflicts overseas, terrorist attacks and ongoing security concerns; the global scope of our business and any associated economic and political instability or adverse effects of events, circumstances or government actions beyond our control, including the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and limitations on the repatriation of cash held in foreign countries; the impact of environmental regulation; our reliance on technology and automated systems and 3 the impact of any failure of these technologies or systems; challenges in integrating our computer, communications and other technology systems; costs of ongoing data security compliance requirements and the impact of any significant data security breach; losses and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving any of our aircraft or the aircraft of our regional or codeshare operators; delays in scheduled aircraft deliveries, or other loss of anticipated fleet capacity, and failure of new aircraft to perform as expected; our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft, aircraft engines and parts; the impact of changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, including global events that affect travel behavior such as an outbreak of a contagious disease, and volatility and fluctuations in our results of operations due to seasonality; the effect of a higher than normal number of pilot retirements and a potential shortage of pilots; the impact of possible future increases in insurance costs or reductions in available insurance coverage; the effect of several lawsuits that were filed in connection with the merger transaction with us airways group, inc. and remain pending; an inability to use nol carryforwards; any impairment in the amount of goodwill we recorded as a result of the application of the acquisition method of accounting and an inability to realize the full value of aag’s and american’s respective intangible or long-lived assets and any material impairment charges that would be recorded as a result; price volatility of our common stock; delay or prevention of stockholders’ ability to change the composition of our board of directors and the effect this may have on takeover attempts that some of our stockholders might consider beneficial; the effect of provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that limit foreign owners’ ability to vote and own our equity interests, including our common stock, our preferred stock and convertible notes; the effect of limitations in our certificate of incorporation on acquisitions and dispositions of our common stock designed to protect our nol carryforwards and certain other tax attributes, which may limit the liquidity of our common stock; other economic, business, competitive, and/or regulatory factors affecting our business, including those set forth in our filings with the securities and exchange commission (the sec), especially in part i, item 1a. risk factors and part ii, item 7. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and other sec filings; and other risks and uncertainties listed from time to time in our reports to and filings with the sec. all of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed in part i, item 1a. risk factors and elsewhere in this report. there may be other factors of which we are not currently aware that may affect matters discussed in the forward-looking statements and may also cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. we do not assume any obligation to publicly update or supplement any forward-looking statement to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such statements other than as required by law. forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the statements. 4 part i  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________   item 1. business overview american airlines group inc. (aag) a delaware corporation, is a holding company and its principal, wholly-owned subsidiaries are american, a delaware corporation, and, as of december 9, 2013, us airways group, a delaware corporation. aag was formed in 1982 under the name amr corporation (amr) as the parent company of american which was founded in 1934. us airways group was formed in 1982 and its origins trace back to the formation of all american aviation in 1939. amr changed its name to american airlines group inc. on december 9, 2013. virtually all of aag's operations fall within the airline industry. aag's and american's principal executive offices are located at 4333 amon carter boulevard, fort worth, texas 76155. aag's and american's telephone number is 817-967-1234 and their internet address is www.aa.com. information contained on aag's website is not and should not be deemed a part of this report or any other report or filing filed with or furnished to the sec. chapter 11 reorganization on november 29, 2011 (the petition date), amr corporation (referred to as amr prior to december 9, 2013), its principal subsidiary, american, and certain of amr’s other direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries (collectively, the debtors), filed voluntary petitions for relief (the chapter 11 cases) under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code (the bankruptcy code) in the united states bankruptcy court for the southern district of new york (the bankruptcy court). on october 21, 2013, the bankruptcy court entered an order (the confirmation order) approving and confirming the debtors’ fourth amended joint plan of reorganization (as amended, the plan). on december 9, 2013 (the effective date), the debtors consummated their reorganization pursuant to the plan, principally through the transactions contemplated by that certain agreement and plan of merger (as amended, the merger agreement), dated as of february 13, 2013, by and among amr, amr merger sub, inc. (merger sub) and us airways group, pursuant to which merger sub merged with and into us airways group (the merger), with us airways group surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of amr following the merger. as noted above, immediately following the merger closing, amr changed its name to american airlines group inc. as previously reported, in connection with the chapter 11 cases, trading in amr’s common stock and certain debt securities on the new york stock exchange (nyse) was suspended on january 5, 2012, and amr’s common stock and such debt securities were delisted by the sec from the nyse on january 30, 2012. on january 5, 2012, amr’s common stock began trading under the symbol "aamrq" (cusip 001765106) on the otcqb marketplace, operated by otc markets group. pursuant to the plan, and in accordance with the merger agreement, on the effective date (i) all existing shares of aag’s old common stock formerly traded under the symbol "aamrq" were canceled and (ii) the company was authorized to issue up to approximately 544 million shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of aag (aag common stock) by operation of the plan (excluding shares of aag common stock issuable pursuant to the merger agreement). on the effective date, the aag common stock was listed on the nasdaq global select market under the symbol "aal" and aamrq ceased trading on the otcqb marketplace. in addition, aag’s series a convertible preferred stock, par value $0.01 (the aag series a preferred stock), was authorized for trading and listed on the nasdaq global select market under the symbol "aalcp." upon emergence from chapter 11, the company issued approximately 53 million shares of aag common stock to the company’s old equity holders and certain of the debtors’ employees and 168 million shares of aag series a preferred stock, which is mandatorily convertible into new aag common stock during the 120-day period after the effective date, to certain creditors and employees of the debtors (including shares deposited in the disputed claims reserve (as defined in the plan)). holders of aamrq received, for each share of amr common stock, an initial distribution of approximately 0.0665 shares of the aag common stock in connection with the occurrence of the effective date. aamrq holders, and those deemed to be treated as such in connection with the elections made pursuant to the plan, have received and may continue to receive additional distributions of shares of aag common stock based on the trading price of aag common stock during the 120 day period after the effective date and the total amount of allowed claims, in each case, in accordance with the terms of the plan. on the effective date, the adjusted total double-dip general unsecured claims (as defined in the plan) was approximately $2.45 billion, the allowed single-dip general unsecured claims (as defined in the plan) were approximately $2.45 billion and the disputed claims reserve (as defined in the plan) was approximately $755 million. 5 during its chapter 11 restructuring, amr and the other debtors took numerous steps to become more cost competitive in the airline industry. these measures included steps to realize labor cost savings and improve managerial efficiencies, to reconfigure their fleet, and to realize other economies. through the process under section 1113 of the bankruptcy code and consensual negotiations with its labor unions, american and amr eagle holding corporation (amr eagle) entered into new restructured collective bargaining agreements (cbas) with each of their respective union groups. the debtors also froze their four defined benefit pension plans, and terminated the pilot variable income retirement plan, putting in their place a revised defined contribution retirement benefit plan. the debtors also amended the pilots’ defined benefit pension plan to eliminate lump-sum and similar installment forms of benefit payments from such plan. the debtors also took significant actions to reduce non-labor related liabilities on their balance sheets. specifically, the debtors rejected or renegotiated financing on more than 400 aircraft, and evaluated and/or renegotiated over 700 real estate leases and over 9,000 vendor contracts. importantly, during their restructuring, the debtors successfully implemented their fleet renewal strategy. the debtors evaluated their fleet based on then-current rates and market values, required maintenance, and the need to phase out older aircraft to achieve necessary fleet efficiencies. see part ii, item 5. market for registrant’s common stock and related stockholder matters, item 7. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, note 2 and note 4 to aag's consolidated financial statements in item 8a and note 2 to american's consolidated financial statements in item 8b for further information regarding the chapter 11 cases and the merger. merger pursuant to the merger agreement and consistent with the plan, each share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of us airways group was converted into the right to receive one share of aag common stock. the aggregate number of shares of aag common stock issuable in the merger to holders of us airways group equity instruments (including stockholders, holders of convertible notes, optionees, and holders of restricted stock units (rsus)) represented 28% of the diluted equity ownership of aag. the remaining 72% diluted equity ownership in aag (up to approximately 544 million shares) is distributable, pursuant to the plan (see "chapter 11 - emergence" above) to stakeholders, labor unions, and certain employees of amr and the other debtors and such 72% of the diluted equity ownership of aag includes all shares of aag common stock that are or may become issuable upon conversion of shares of aag series a preferred stock such that the aggregate number of shares of aag common stock issuable under the plan will not exceed 72% of the diluted equity ownership of aag as of the time of the merger. in connection with the completion of the merger, the nyse suspended trading in the us airways group common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the us airways group common stock), prior to the opening of the market on december 9, 2013. the nyse also filed with the sec a form 25 notification of removal from listing and/or registration under section 12(b) of the exchange act, to delist the us airways group common stock from the nyse and terminate registration of the us airways group common stock under section 12(b) of the exchange act. pursuant to the merger agreement and in accordance with the plan, as of the effective date, the board of directors of aag was reconstituted to be comprised of 12 members: (i) thomas w. horton, amr’s prior chairman, chief executive officer and president, who currently serves as chairman of aag and will continue to so serve until the earlier of one year after the closing of the merger and the day immediately prior to the first annual meeting of stockholders of aag (provided that such meeting will not occur prior to may 1, 2014), (ii) w. douglas parker, formerly chief executive officer of us airways, inc., who serves as chief executive officer of aag and will serve as chairman of aag following the end of mr. horton’s term, (iii) two independent directors designated by amr, alberto ibargüen and ray m. robinson, (iv) three independent directors designated by us airways group, matthew j. hart, richard c. kraemer, and denise m. o’leary, and (v) five independent directors, james f. albaugh, jeffrey d. benjamin, john t. cahill (lead independent director), michael j. embler, and richard p. schifter, who were designated by a search committee consisting of representatives of the official committee of unsecured creditors of the debtors and certain representatives of creditors signatory to support agreements with amr. further, on the effective date, mr. horton (formerly president and chief executive officer), daniel p. garton (formerly executive vice president), isabella d. goren (formerly senior vice president and chief financial officer), gary f. kennedy (formerly senior vice president, general counsel, and chief compliance officer) and james b. ream (formerly senior vice president of operations) ceased to be executive officers of aag and american and w. douglas parker (chief executive officer of aag, american, and us airways group), j. scott kirby (president), derek j. kerr (executive vice president and chief financial officer), robert d. isom, jr. (chief operating officer and chief executive officer of us airways), elise r. eberwein (executive vice president - people and communications) and stephen l. johnson (executive vice president-corporate affairs) were elected as the executive officers of aag, american, us airways group and us airways, except as otherwise noted. on the effective date and pursuant to the plan and in accordance with the merger agreement, aag’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws were amended and restated in their entirety, and an amended and restated certificate of incorporation 6 (the certificate of incorporation) and a certificate of designations with respect to the aag series a preferred stock was filed with the secretary of state of the state of delaware immediately prior to the closing of the merger. upon issuance of the shares pursuant to the plan and the merger agreement, the company filed a certificate of amendment with secretary of state of the state of delaware solely to change its name to american airlines group inc. thereafter, the company filed a restated certificate of incorporation, which integrated the certificate of incorporation (including the certificate of designations) and the certificate of amendment, with the secretary of state of the state of delaware. the merger was intended to qualify, for federal income tax purposes, as a reorganization under the provisions of section 368(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. the merger has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting with aag treated as the acquirer for accounting purposes. us airways group’s identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recognized at their estimated fair values as of the effective date. goodwill was measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred in the merger over the fair value of the identifiable net assets. goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually. see part ii, item 7. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - "aag year in review", management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - "aag results of operations", note 2 and note 4 to aag's consolidated financial statements in item 8a and note 2 to american's consolidated financial statements in item 8b for further information regarding the chapter 11 cases and the merger. airline operations as noted above, aag is a holding company whose primary business activity is the operation of two major network carriers through its principal, wholly-owned subsidiaries: american and, as of december 9, 2013, us airways. as of december 31, 2013, american, together with american eagle and the third-party regional carriers that provide regional feed to american, served more than 270 communities in more than 50 countries using a combined network fleet of 903 aircraft. american is a founding member of oneworld® alliance and is one of the largest scheduled air freight carriers in the world, providing a wide range of freight and mail services to shippers throughout its system onboard its passenger fleet. american had approximately 87 million passengers boarding its mainline flights in 2013. us airways group is a holding company whose wholly-owned subsidiaries include us airways, piedmont airlines, inc. (piedmont) and psa airlines, inc. (psa). as of december 31, 2013, those carriers and the third-party regional carriers that provide regional feed to us airways served more than 207 airports in more than 20 countries using a combined network fleet of 621 aircraft.      following the merger, aag began moving toward operating under the single brand name of "american airlines" through its mainline operations, american and us airways. until a single operating certificate is issued by the federal aviation administration (faa) and the operational integration is complete, american and us airways will continue to operate as separate airlines. this process is expected to take 18-24 months. through its operating subsidiaries, including the operating subsidiaries of us airways group, aag is the largest airline in the world as measured by revenue passenger miles (rpms) and available seat miles (asms). the company has primary hubs in charlotte, chicago, dallas/fort worth, los angeles, miami, new york city, philadelphia, phoenix and washington, d.c. as of december 31, 2013, the combined airline, together with its third-party regional carriers operated nearly 6,700 daily flights to 339 destinations in 54 countries. as of december 31, 2013, american and us airways operated 965 mainline jets. american continues to be provided with regional feed by american eagle and third-party regional carriers and us airways continues to be provided with regional feed by piedmont, psa and third-party regional carriers. as of december 31, 2013, the company's regional subsidiaries and third-party regional carriers that provide it with regional feed operated approximately 519 regional jets and approximately 40 turboprops. see part ii, item 7. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - "results of operations" for a discussion of aag’s and american’s operating results and operating performance. see note 15 to aag's consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8a and note 14 to american's consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8b for information regarding our operating segments and operating revenue in principal geographic areas. regional operations certain air carriers, including our wholly-owned regional carriers, american eagle, piedmont and psa, and third-party regional carriers, have arrangements with us to provide regional feed under the trade name "american eagle" or "us airways express." as of december 31, 2013, 15 regional aircraft were also provided by a third party operating under the "american connection" brand, an arrangement that we expect to end during 2014. american eagle and us airways express carriers are an integral component of our operating network. we rely heavily on feeder traffic from these regional carriers, which carry passengers to our hubs from low-density markets that are uneconomical for us to serve with large jets. in addition, regional carriers offer 7 complementary service in our existing mainline markets by operating flights during off-peak periods between mainline flights. during 2013, approximately 22 million passengers boarded our regional, air carriers' planes, approximately 43% of whom connected to or from our mainline flights. of these passengers, approximately 18 million were enplaned by our wholly owned regional carriers, approximately 4 million were enplaned by third-party regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements and less than 1 million were enplaned by carriers operating under prorate agreements, as described below. the american eagle and us airways express arrangements are principally in the form of capacity purchase agreements. the capacity purchase agreements provide that all revenues, including passenger, mail and freight revenues, go to us. in return, we agree to pay predetermined fees to these airlines for operating an agreed-upon number of aircraft, without regard to the number of passengers on board. in addition, these agreements provide that certain variable costs, such as airport landing fees and passenger liability insurance, will be reimbursed 100% by us. we control marketing, scheduling, ticketing, pricing and seat inventories. a very small number of regional aircraft are operated for us under prorate agreements, under which the regional carriers receive a prorated share of ticket revenue and pay certain service fees to us. the prorate carriers are responsible for all costs incurred operating the applicable aircraft. all american eagle and us airways express carriers have logos, service marks, aircraft paint schemes and uniforms similar to our mainline operations. cargo our cargo division is one of the largest air cargo operations in the world, with facilities and interline connections available across the globe. other revenues other revenues include revenue from the marketing services related to the sale of mileage credits in the aadvantage and dividend miles programs as discussed below under "frequent flyer program", membership fees and related revenue from our admirals club operations, our us airways club operations, and other miscellaneous service revenue, including administrative service charges and baggage handling fees. the u.s. airline industry in 2013, the u.s. airline industry experienced year-over-year growth in passenger revenues driven by strong demand for air travel. in its most recent data available, airlines for america, the trade association for u.s. airlines, reported that annual u.s. industry passenger revenues and yields increased 3.8% and 2.0%, respectively, as compared to 2012. with respect to international versus domestic performance, airlines for america reported that the atlantic and latin america markets outperformed domestic markets in year-over-year growth in passenger revenues while the pacific market experienced year-over-year declines in passenger revenues. throughout 2013, jet fuel prices continued to follow the price of brent crude oil more closely than the price of west texas intermediate crude oil. on average, fuel costs were down slightly in 2013 as compared to 2012. the brent crude oil average daily spot price was $109 per barrel in 2013 which is slightly lower than the average daily spot price in 2012 of $112 per barrel. however, on a daily basis, prices continued to be volatile. throughout 2013, daily spot prices fluctuated between a high of $119 per barrel in february to a low of $97 per barrel in april and closed the year at $110 per barrel on december 31, 2013. while the u.s. airline industry is currently benefiting from a favorable revenue environment and moderating fuel price increases as described above, uncertainty exists regarding the economic conditions driving these factors. see part i, item 1a. risk factors - "our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices and significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on our operating results and liquidity." competition the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. domestically, any u.s. airline deemed fit by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) is generally free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the u.s. and its possessions, with the exception of certain airports that require landing and take-off rights and authorizations and other facilities (slots). price competition occurs on a market-by-market basis through price discounts, changes in pricing structures, fare matching, target promotions and frequent flyer initiatives. on most of our domestic non-stop routes, we currently face competing service from at least one, and sometimes more than one, domestic airline, including: alaska airlines, allegiant air, delta air lines, frontier airlines, hawaiian airlines, jetblue airways, southwest airlines, spirit airlines, united airlines and virgin america. competition is even greater between cities that require a connection, where the major airlines compete via their respective hubs. in addition, we face competition on some of our connecting routes from airlines operating point-to-point service on such routes. 8 we also compete with all-cargo and charter airlines and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation. on all of our routes, pricing decisions are affected, in large part, by the need to meet competition from other airlines. airlines typically use discount fares and other promotions to stimulate traffic during normally slack travel periods, when they begin service to new cities or when they have excess capacity, to generate cash flow and maximize revenue per asm and to establish, increase or preserve market share. discount and promotional fares are generally non-refundable and may be subject to various restrictions such as minimum stay requirements, advance ticketing, limited seating and change fees. we have often elected to match discount or promotional fares initiated by other air carriers in certain markets in order to compete in those markets. most airlines will quickly match price reductions in a particular market. our ability to compete on the basis of price is limited by our fixed costs and depends on our ability to manage effectively our operating costs. some of our competitors have greater financial or other resources and/or lower cost structures than we do. in addition, low fare, low-cost carriers compete in many of the markets in which we operate and competition from these carriers is increasing. these low cost carriers generally have lower cost structures than american and us airways. in addition to price competition, airlines compete for market share by increasing the size of their route system and the number of markets they serve. the american eagle and us airways express regional carriers increase the number of markets the company serves by flying to lower demand markets and providing connections at our hubs. many of the company’s competitors also own or have marketing agreements with regional airlines which provide similar services at their hubs and other locations. we also compete on the basis of scheduling (frequency and flight times), availability of nonstop flights, on-time performance, type of equipment, cabin configuration, amenities provided to passengers, frequent flyer programs, the automation of travel agent reservation systems, onboard products, markets served and other services. we compete with both major network airlines and low-cost airlines throughout our network. in addition to our extensive domestic service, we provide international service to canada, mexico, europe, the middle east, the caribbean, central and south america, and asia. revenues from foreign operations (flights serving international destinations) were approximately 40% of american’s total operating revenues and approximately 24% of us airways’ total operating revenues for 2013. in providing international air transportation, we compete with foreign investor-owned airlines, foreign state-owned airlines, and u.s. airlines that have been granted authority to provide scheduled passenger and cargo service between the u.s. and various overseas locations. marketing and alliance agreements with other airlines in general, carriers that have the greatest ability to seamlessly connect passengers to and from markets beyond the nonstop city pair have a competitive advantage. in some cases, however, foreign governments limit u.s. air carriers' rights to carry passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries. to improve access to each other's markets, various u.s. and foreign air carriers - including american and us airways - have established marketing relationships with other airlines and rail companies. american currently has marketing relationships with air berlin, air tahiti nui, alaska airlines, british airways, cape air, cathay pacific, dragonair, el al, etihad airways, fiji airways, finnair, gulf air, hainan airlines, hawaiian airlines, iberia, japan airlines, jet airways, jetstar airways, lan (includes lan airlines, lan argentina, lan colombia, lan ecuador and lan peru), malaysia airlines, niki airlines, qantas airways, qatar airways, royal jordanian, s7 airlines, seaborne airlines, tam airlines, and westjet. american is also a founding member of the oneworld alliance, which includes airberlin, british airways, cathay pacific airways, finnair, iberia, japan airlines, lan airlines, malaysia airlines, qantas, qatar airways, royal jordanian, and s7 airlines. tam airlines and srilankan airlines are scheduled to join the alliance in the first half of 2014. the oneworld alliance links the networks of the member carriers to enhance customer service and smooth connections to the destinations served by the alliance, including linking the carriers' frequent flyer programs and access to the carriers' airport lounge facilities. together, oneworld members and members-elect serve 981 destinations with over 14,000 daily flights to 151 countries. american is party to antitrust-immunized cooperation agreements with british airways, iberia, finnair, and royal jordanian. over the last three years, american has also established joint business agreements (jbas) with british airways, iberia, japan airlines, qantas and finnair that enable the carriers to cooperate on flights between particular destinations, and allow pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity, and cooperation in other areas. american and its joint business partners received regulatory approval to enter into these jbas. in addition, in december 2012, american signed codeshare agreements with sao paulo-based tam airlines and bogota-based lan colombia. generally, under a codeshare arrangement, one carrier places its designator code and sells ticket on flights of another carrier. once approved in brazil and colombia, respectively, these new codeshare relationships will provide expanded opportunities for american to serve new markets in brazil and colombia and for tam airlines and lan colombia to serve new markets in the u.s. us airways is currently a member of the star alliance®, which offers similar member benefits as those discussed above for the oneworld alliance, and will transition to oneworld on march 31, 2014. as part of this transition, codeshare and frequent 9 flyer reciprocity between us airways and many members of the star alliance will be ending on march 30, 2014. some of the largest airlines that will be phased out at that time include united airlines, lufthansa, swiss, brussels airlines, and all nippon airways, while others will be phased out in the following months. we are in negotiations with international airlines group (iag), the parent company of british airways and iberia, concerning the terms by which flights operated by us airways will be added to our existing transatlantic joint business. we have thus far been unable to reach agreement with iag and are uncertain if we will be able to reach an agreement. us airways’ entry into the jba and cooperation with other carriers is subject to compliance with all dot regulations and applicable orders as well as obtaining required dot approvals. us airways is expected to enter into codeshare cooperation with selected oneworld member airlines and frequent flyer reciprocity with all other members. us airways is also expected to enter into marketing relationships with selected other airlines that are currently party to marketing agreements with american. industry regulation and airport access general our airlines are subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. the airline deregulation act of 1978, as amended, eliminated most domestic economic regulation of passenger and freight transportation. however, dot and the faa still exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers. dot maintains jurisdiction over the approval of domestic and international codeshare agreements, international route authorities, and consumer protection and competition matters, such as advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability. the faa regulates flying operations, primarily in the areas of flight operations, maintenance, and other operational and safety areas. pursuant to these regulations, our airline subsidiaries have faa-approved maintenance programs for each type of aircraft they operate. the programs provide for the ongoing maintenance of such aircraft, ranging from periodic routine inspections to major overhauls. faa requirements cover, among other things, retirement and maintenance of older aircraft, safety measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement, other environmental concerns, fuel tank inerting, crew scheduling and aircraft operations. we are also progressing toward the completion of numerous airworthiness directives, a number of which require us to perform significant maintenance work and to incur additional expenses. based on the current implementation schedule, we expect to be in full compliance with the applicable requirements within the required time periods. our failure to timely comply with these requirements has in the past and could in the future result in fines and other enforcement actions by the faa or other regulators. the faa also operates the air traffic control (atc) system in the united states. additionally, the faa recently implemented rules on pilot flight and duty times, and finalized rules on minimum requirements for all pilots operating commercial aircraft. both rules have increased our costs and reduced staffing flexibility, particularly during irregular operations. we are also working with the faa on integrating us airways and american into a single operating certificate under the american operations specifications. airlines are obligated to collect a federal excise tax, commonly referred to as the "ticket tax," on domestic and international air transportation. airlines collect the ticket tax, along with certain other u.s. and foreign taxes and user fees on air transportation, and pass along the collected amounts to the appropriate governmental agencies. although these taxes are not our operating expenses, they represent an additional cost to our customers. see "industry regulation and airport access - security," below for a discussion of passenger fees. most major u.s. airports impose a passenger facility charge (pfc). the ability of airports to increase this charge (and the ability of airlines to contest such increases) is restricted by federal legislation, dot regulations and judicial decisions. with certain exceptions, air carriers pass these charges on to passengers. however, our ability to pass through the total amount of the pfc to our customers is subject to various factors, including market conditions and competitive factors. the current cap on the pfc is $4.50 per passenger, but the industry has faced repeated efforts in congress to raise the cap to a higher level including in the last session of congress. dot consumer rules that took effect in 2010 require procedures for customer handling during long onboard delays, including additional reporting requirements for airlines, that have increased the cost of airline operations and reduced revenues. the dot has been aggressively investigating alleged violations of these rules. in addition, the dot finalized a second set of rules that further regulate airline interactions with passengers through the reservations process, at the airport and on board the aircraft. these rules require airlines to display all fares in an "all in" basis, with the price of the air travel and all taxes and government imposed fees rolled into the displayed fare. enhanced disclosure of ancillary fees such as baggage fees is also required. other rules apply to post-ticket purchase price increases and an expansion of tarmac delay regulations to international carriers. we anticipate a third set of consumer rules to be issued by the dot in 2014 and the dot continues its efforts to further regulate airlines through increased data reporting requirements, expansion of the air carrier access act, and greater oversight 10 of the methods airlines use to describe and sell air transportation and other products and services. each additional regulation or other form of regulatory oversight increases costs and adds greater complexity to our operation. in this environment, no assurance can be given that compliance with these new rules, anticipated rules or other forms of regulatory oversight from the doj, the faa or other regulatory bodies will not have a material adverse effect on our business. among its regulatory responsibilities, dot also enforces equal access to air transportation for disabled passengers. recently, a number of carriers, including american and us airways, have entered into consent orders with dot over their handling of disabled passengers. dot has been aggressive in prosecuting disability violations and seeks large penalties. we expect to see continued dot emphasis in this area through both regulation and enforcement.      dot and the antitrust division of the u.s. department of justice (doj) have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters. the u.s. postal service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services. labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the railway labor act, which vests in the national mediation board (nmb) certain functions with respect to disputes between airlines and labor unions relating to union representation and cbas. in addition, as a result of heightened levels of concern regarding data privacy, we are subject to an increasing number of domestic and foreign laws regarding the privacy and security of passenger and employee data. international  international air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. our operating authority in international markets is subject to aviation agreements between the u.s. and the respective countries or governmental authorities, such as the european union (eu), and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of dot and/or the relevant foreign governments. moreover, alliances with international carriers may be subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of various foreign agencies. bilateral and multilateral agreements among the u.s. and various foreign governments of countries we serve are periodically subject to renegotiation. changes in u.s. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of route authorities, slots or other assets located abroad, or otherwise adversely affect our international operations. the open skies agreement between the u.s. and brazil, which was signed in 2010 and takes full effect in 2015, has resulted in increased competition in the u.s./brazil market. in addition, at some foreign airports, an air carrier needs slots and other facilities before the air carrier can introduce new service or increase existing service. the availability of such slots is not assured and our inability to obtain and retain needed slots and facilities could therefore inhibit our efforts to compete in certain international markets. further, pursuant to the merger clearance process in the eu, we are required to make available to other carriers certain slots at london heathrow. see "industry regulation and airport access - airport access and operations," below. security  the aviation and transportation security act (the aviation security act) was enacted in november 2001. under the aviation security act, substantially all aspects of civil aviation security screening were federalized, and a new transportation security administration (tsa) under the dot was created. the tsa was then transferred to the department of homeland security pursuant to the homeland security act of 2002. the aviation security act, among other matters, mandates improved flight deck security; carriage at no charge of federal air marshals; enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors; enhanced security training; fingerprint-based background checks of all employees and vendor employees with access to secure areas of airports pursuant to regulations issued in connection with the aviation security act; and the provision of certain passenger data to u.s. customs and border protection. funding for the tsa is provided by a combination of air carrier fees, passenger fees and taxpayer monies. a "passenger security fee," which is collected by air carriers from their passengers, is currently set at a rate of $2.50 per flight segment but not more than $10 per round trip. however, the bipartisan budget act of 2013 and the consolidated appropriations act of 2014 increased the passenger security fee to $5.60 per one-way trip effective on july 1, 2014. an air carrier fee, or aviation security infrastructure fee (asif), has also been imposed with an annual cap equivalent to the amount that an individual air carrier paid in calendar year 2000 for the screening of passengers and property. the fee was repealed by federal legislation and the repeal will go into effect on october 1, 2014.  implementation of and compliance with the requirements of the aviation security act have resulted and will continue to result in increased costs for us and our passengers and have resulted and will likely continue to result in service disruptions and delays. as a result of competitive pressure, we and other airlines may be unable to recover all of these additional security costs from passengers through increased fares. in addition, we cannot forecast what new security and safety requirements may be imposed in the future or the costs or financial impact of complying with any such requirements. 11 airline fares  airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental regulation. dot maintains authority over certain international fares, rates and charges, but applies this authority on a limited basis. in addition, international fares and rates are sometimes subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries which we serve. while air carriers are required to file and adhere to international fare and rate tariffs, substantial commissions, fare overrides and discounts to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers characterize many international markets. airport access and operations operations at four major domestic airports and certain foreign airports we serve are regulated by governmental entities through allocations of slots or similar regulatory mechanisms which limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. each slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period. in the u.s., the faa currently regulates the allocation of slots, slot exemptions, operating authorizations, or similar capacity allocation mechanisms at reagan national in washington, d.c., laguardia and jfk in new york city, and newark. our operations at these airports generally require the allocation of slots or analogous regulatory authorities. similarly, our operations at frankfurt, london heathrow, paris, tokyo narita and certain other international airports are regulated by local slot coordinators pursuant to the international air transport association’s worldwide scheduling guidelines (wsg) and applicable local law. we currently have sufficient slots or analogous authorizations to operate our existing flights, and we have generally been able to obtain the rights to expand our operations and to change our schedules. there is no assurance, however, that we will be able to do so in the future because, among other reasons, such allocations are often sought after by other airlines, and are subject to changes in governmental policies. in connection with the settlement of antitrust litigation brought by the doj and certain states, we entered into settlement agreements that provide for certain asset divestitures. in the agreement with the united states government, among other things, we agreed to divest and not reacquire for ten years certain rights and assets consisting of 52 slot pairs at washington reagan national airport and 17 slot pairs at laguardia, in each case together with associated gates and related ground facilities necessary to operate those slot pairs, and two gates at each of boston logan international airport, chicago o’hare international airport, dallas love field, los angeles international airport and miami international airport. the agreement with the plaintiff states requires our airlines, subject to certain conditions and exceptions, to maintain certain hub operations in a manner generally consistent with historical operations and to continue to provide scheduled daily service to certain specified communities, both for limited periods of time. in addition, we entered into a related settlement with the dot related to small community service from washington reagan national airport. further, as a consequence of the merger clearance process in the eu, we are required to make available one pair of london heathrow slots for use by another carrier between london and philadelphia, which the acquiring carrier can deploy on another heathrow city pair after operating the slots on london-philadelphia for a period of not less than three consecutive years, and, along with our jba partners, we are required to make available for an initial period of up to seven years one pair of heathrow slots for service between london and miami that may be operated via an intermediate point. amendments to the wright amendment have reduced geographic restrictions on operations at dallas love field (dal) and in october 2014, will eliminate all such domestic non-stop geographic restrictions on operations there. southwest has already announced plans to serve new markets throughout the continental united states from dal in october 2014. although we held two gates at dal, we did not operate from there in 2013 and instead operated solely at dallas fort worth. an element of our settlement of the antitrust litigation brought by the u.s. department of justice and certain states relating to the merger included our divestiture of the two gates we held at dal. the dot allows local airport authorities to implement procedures designed to abate special noise problems, provided such procedures do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national transportation system. certain locales, including boston, washington d.c., chicago, san diego and san francisco, among others, have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on aircraft types to be used and limits on the number of hourly or daily operations or the time of these operations. in some instances, these restrictions have caused curtailments in service or increases in operating costs, and these restrictions could limit the ability of our airline subsidiaries to expand their operations at the affected airports. authorities at other airports may adopt similar noise regulations. see "industry regulation and airport access - environmental matters," below. civil reserve air fleet we are a participant in the civil reserve air fleet (craf) program, which is a voluntary program administered by the u.s. air force air mobility command. the general services administration of the u.s. government requires that airlines participate in the civil reserve air fleet program in order to receive u.s. government business. we are reimbursed at compensatory rates if aircraft are activated under the civil reserve air fleet program or when participating in department of 12 defense business. if a substantial number of our aircraft are activated for operation under the craf program at a time of war or other national emergency, our business operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. in january 2014, the u.s. air force proposed a radical restructuring of the craf program to take effect in october 2015. we do not support the new proposals as they could adversely affect our business and, together with other industry participants, we are working with the air force to address our concerns. environmental matters  the airline industry is subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters in the u.s. and other countries. u.s. federal laws that have a particular impact on our operations include the airport noise and capacity act of 1990 (anca), the clean air act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the clean water act, the safe drinking water act, and the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla or the superfund act). the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and other federal agencies have been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact on our operations. in addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes. many state and local governments have adopted environmental laws and regulations which are similar to or stricter than federal requirements. the anca recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. authorities in several cities have promulgated aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews. the anca generally requires faa approval of local noise restrictions on aircraft. while we have had sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, our operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread. many aspects of the company's operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations. concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, may result in the imposition of additional international and domestic legislation or regulation. for example, the eu has established the emissions trading scheme (ets) to regulate carbon dioxide emissions in the eu. the eu adopted a directive under which each eu member state is required to extend the ets to aviation operations. this directive would have required us, beginning in 2012, in order to operate flights to and from airports in the european economic area (eea), including flights between the u.s. and eu member states, to annually submit emission allowances equal to our total carbon dioxide emissions from those flights. while a certain portion of those allowances are granted to us at no cost, we may potentially need to also purchase allowances in order to cover our emissions total in a given year. however, in an effort to allow icao time to propose an alternate scheme to manage global aviation emissions, in april 2013 the eu suspended for one year the ets' application to flights entering and departing the eea, limiting its application, for flights flown in 2012, to intra-eea flights only. in october 2013, the icao assembly adopted a resolution calling for the development through icao of a global, market-based scheme for aviation emissions, to be implemented in 2020. subsequently, the eu has proposed amending the eu ets so that the monitoring, reporting and submission of allowances for emissions from flights flown in 2013 would continue to be limited to only intra-eea flights. for flights flown from 2014 to 2020, the scope of coverage under the amendment would include intra-eea flights and the portion of aviation emissions of flights to and from eu member states that take place in european regional airspace. the eu anticipates approval of this amendment in april 2014. the u.s. enacted legislation in november 2012 which encourages the dot to seek an international solution through icao and that will allow the u.s. secretary of transportation to prohibit u.s. airlines from participating in the ets. while these measures create some uncertainty as to the extent to which we will be required to participate in the ets going forward, it is nevertheless increasingly likely that in the future we will be required to participate in some form of international arrangement governing aircraft emissions. in addition, the u.s. congress has considered legislation on climate change. although congress has not passed comprehensive climate change legislation, several states have adopted mechanisms to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. even without further federal legislation, the epa may act to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. in 2009, the epa issued its final endangerment and cause or contribute findings for greenhouse gases, which became effective in january 2010. this regulatory finding sets the foundation for potential future epa greenhouse gas regulation under the clean air act. depending on the scope of such regulation, certain of our facilities and operations may be subject to additional operating and other permit requirements, potentially resulting in increased operating costs. the environmental laws to which we are subject include those related to responsibility for potential soil and groundwater contamination. we are conducting investigation and remediation activities to address soil and groundwater conditions at several sites, including airports and maintenance bases. we anticipate that the ongoing costs of such activities will not have a material impact on our operations. in addition, we have been named as a potentially responsible party (prp) at certain superfund sites. our alleged volumetric contributions at such sites are relatively small in comparison to total contributions of all prps; we anticipate that any future payments of costs at such sites will not have a material impact on our operations. 13 future regulatory developments  future regulatory developments and actions could affect operations and increase operating costs for the airline industry, including our airline subsidiaries. see part i, item 1a. risk factors - "if we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system and, at some airports, adequate slots, we may be unable to operate our existing flight schedule and to expand or change our route network in the future, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations," "our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages" and "we are subject to many forms of environmental regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result" for additional information. employees and labor relations the airline business is labor intensive. in 2013, salaries, wages, and benefits were one of our largest expenses and represented approximately 22% of our operating expenses. the table below presents our approximate number of active full-time equivalent employees as of december 31, 2013.     american   us airways   wholly-owned regional carriers   total pilots   7,900   4,100   3,400   15,400 flight attendants   15,000   7,700   2,100   24,800 maintenance personnel   11,300   3,100   2,400   16,800 fleet service personnel   7,400   5,500   1,700   14,600 passenger service personnel   10,300   6,200   6,400   22,900 administrative and other   8,200   5,500   2,200   15,900 total   60,100   32,100   18,200   110,400      14 as of december 31, 2013, approximately 73% of aag's active employees were represented by various labor unions and covered by cbas. employees of american, us airways and aag's regional subsidiaries are covered by labor agreements as set forth in the table below. union   class or craft   employees (1)   contract amendable date (2) american mainline:             allied pilots association (apa)   premerger aa pilots   7,900   association of professional flight attendants (apfa)   premerger aa flight attendants   15,000   transport workers union (twu)   mechanics and related   9,600   twu   fleet service   7,400   twu   stock clerks   1,200   twu   simulator technicians   80   twu   dispatch   190   twu   flight crew training instructors   180   twu   maintenance control technicians   80   american eagle:             air line pilots association (alpa)   pilots   2,600   2/1/2016 afa   flight attendants   1,575   1/1/2016 twu   ground school instructors   10   1/1/2019 twu   mechanics & related   1,590   4/1/2016 twu   fleet service clerks   2,000   1/1/2019 twu   dispatchers   100   1/1/2019 us airways mainline:             us airline pilots association (usapa)   premerger us airways pilots   2,800     usapa   premerger america west pilots   1,300     transport workers union (twu)   flight crew training instructors   100     twu   flight simulator engineers   50     association of flight attendants-cwa (afa)   flight attendants   7,700     international association of machinists & aerospace workers (iam)   mechanics, stock clerks and related   3,100     iam   maintenance training instructors   30     iam   fleet service   5,500     airline customer service employee association - ibt and cwa (the association)   passenger service   6,200     twu   dispatch   200     piedmont:             air line pilots association (alpa)   pilots   300   3/31/2018 afa   flight attendants   150   8/1/2009 international brotherhood of teamsters (ibt)   mechanics   250   8/23/2012 ibt   stock clerks   30   4/18/2014 communications workers of america (cwa)   fleet and passenger service   2,500   2/05/2017 ibt   dispatch   20   6/16/2014 psa:             alpa   pilots   500   4/01/2018 afa   flight attendants   300   4/30/2017 iam   mechanics   150   4/24/2016 twu   dispatch   20   9/4/2014 (1) approximate number of active full-time equivalent employees covered by the contract as of december 31, 2013. (2) see discussion below regarding the process for combining mainline employee groups post-merger. 15 relations with such labor organizations are governed by the railway labor act (rla). under the rla, the national mediation board (nmb) is responsible for determining which union, if any, is designated to represent employees. in an airline merger, when different unions represent the employees at the merging carrier, a union may file an application with the nmb to represent the combined group of post-merger employees. the application is reviewed by the nmb which considers whether the operations of the merging carriers have been sufficiently integrated to constitute a single transportation system. after the integration process is found to have created a single transportation system, the nmb then conducts an investigation to determine which union, if any, is to be the representative of the post-merger employees. that union then negotiates a joint collective bargaining agreement (jcba) covering the combined group of post-merger employees.      while the passenger service employees at mainline american are not currently represented by any labor organization, the passenger service employees of mainline us airways are represented by the airline employees customer service association, cwa-ibt (cwa-ibt). when and if the cwa-ibt files a single transportation system application with the nmb, the union is expected to attempt to organize the passenger service employees of both mainline airlines. in the meantime, the us airways passenger service employees will continue to be represented by the cwa-ibt, and the american passenger service employees will remain unrepresented for labor relations purposes.      most of the other mainline american ground employees are represented by the transport workers union (twu) and are covered by existing cbas. although those agreements will not become amendable until 2018, the twu is required under the agreements to file a single transportation system application in order to represent the combined groups of mainline us airways and mainline american employees. for the fleet service employees, the mechanic and related employees and the stores employees, the twu may share post-merger representation rights with the international association of machinists and aerospace workers (iam). after the nmb has determined that a single transportation system exists and has certified a post-merger representative of the combined employee groups, the process for negotiating new jcba covering the combined employee groups will commence. that process can take many months or even several years to complete. under an agreement reached with the american mainline and the us airways mainline pilots and a tentative agreement with the american and us airways mainline flight attendants, a different approach will be used by us to reach jcbas. the two pilot groups have agreed that, once a post-merger representative has been designated by the nmb, there will be a thirty-day negotiations period, and, if no agreement is reached, a panel of arbitrators will set the remaining terms of the jcbas that will become amendable on december 31, 2018. the economic terms of the pilot jcba established by the arbitration panel must conform with the contract that was reached with the two pilot groups. if the tentative agreement with the american mainline and us airways mainline flight attendants is approved, negotiations over the terms of a jcba will be conducted for up to 240 days. if no agreement can be reached, a panel of arbitrators will establish the unresolved terms of the jcba, which is to be set based on economics comparable to those for flight attendants at other legacy airlines. the merger will have no impact on the cbas that cover the employees of our wholly-owned subsidiary airlines which are not being merged (american eagle, piedmont and psa). for those employees, the rla provides that cbas do not expire, but instead become amendable as of a stated date. when a rla cba becomes amendable, if either party to the agreement wishes to modify its terms, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed under the rla and as agreed by the parties. under the rla, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and, if no agreement is reached, either party may request the nmb to appoint a federal mediator. the rla prescribes no set timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation process. it is not unusual for those processes to last for many months and even for several years. if no agreement is reached in mediation, the nmb in its discretion may declare under the rla at some time that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared, the nmb proffers binding arbitration to the parties. either party may decline to submit to binding arbitration. if arbitration is rejected by either party, an initial 30-day "cooling off" period commences. following the conclusion of that 30-day "cooling off" period, if no agreement has been reached, "self-help" (as described below) can begin unless a presidential emergency board (peb) is established. a peb examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. the peb process lasts for 30 days and (if no resolution is reached) is followed by another "cooling off" period of 30 days. at the end of a "cooling off" period (unless an agreement is reached, a peb is established, or action is taken by congress), the labor organization may exercise "self-help," such as a strike, and the airline may resort to its own "self-help," including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers. the nmb is currently mediating negotiations with the iam covering the mainline us airways fleet service employees, the mechanic and related employees, and the store employees, and with the afa covering the piedmont flight attendants. for more discussion, see part i, item 1a. risk factors - "union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations." 16 aircraft fuel our operations and financial results are significantly affected by the availability and price of jet fuel. based on our 2014 forecasted mainline and regional fuel consumption, we estimate that as of december 31, 2013, a $1 per barrel increase in the price of crude oil would increase our 2014 annual fuel expense by $104 million (excluding the effect of our hedges), and by $87 million (taking into account such hedges). the following table shows annual aircraft fuel consumption and costs, including taxes, for american, it's third-party regional carriers and american eagle, for 2011 through 2013. aag's consolidated fuel requirements in 2014 are expected to increase significantly to approximately 4.4 billion gallons as a result of a full year of us airways operations. year   gallons consumed (in millions)    average cost per gallon   total cost (in millions)   percent of total operating expenses 2011   2,756   $3.01   $8,304   33.2% 2012   2,723   $3.20   $8,717   35.3% 2013   2,806   $3.09   $8,959   35.3%      total fuel expenses for american eagle and american's third-party regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were $1.1 billion, $1.0 billion and $946 million, respectively. in order to provide a measure of control over price and supply, we trade and ship fuel and maintain fuel storage facilities to support our flight operations. prior to the effective date, we from time to time entered into hedging contracts, which consist primarily of call options, collars (consisting of a purchased call option and a sold put option) and call spreads (consisting of a purchased call option and a sold call option). heating oil, jet fuel and crude oil are the primary underlying commodities in the hedge portfolio. depending on movements in the price of fuel, our fuel hedging can result in gains or losses on its fuel hedges. for more discussion see part i, item 1a. risk factors - "our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices and significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on our operating results and liquidity." as of january 2014, we had hedges covering approximately 19% of estimated consolidated aag (including the estimated fuel requirements of us airways) 2014 fuel requirements. the consumption hedged for 2014 is capped at an average price of approximately $2.91 per gallon of jet fuel. one percent of our estimated 2014 fuel requirement is hedged using call spreads with protection capped at an average price of approximately $3.18 per gallon of jet fuel. eighteen percent of our estimated 2014 fuel requirement is hedged using collars with an average floor price of approximately $2.62 per gallon of jet fuel. the cap and floor prices exclude taxes and transportation costs. we have not entered into any fuel hedges since the effective date and our current policy is not to do so. see part ii, item 7. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, item 7(a). quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, note 10 to aag's consolidated financial statements in item 8a and note 9 to american's consolidated financial statements in item 8b. fuel prices have fluctuated substantially over the past several years. we cannot predict the future availability, price volatility or cost of aircraft fuel. natural disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in fuel-related governmental policy, the strength of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, changes in access to petroleum product pipelines and terminals, speculation in the energy futures markets, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages, additional fuel price volatility and cost increases in the future. see part i, item 1a. risk factors - "our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices and significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on our operating results and liquidity." insurance  we maintain insurance of the types that we believe are customary in the airline industry, including insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage, and all-risk coverage for damage to its aircraft. principal coverage includes liability for injury to members of the public, including passengers, damage to property of aag, its subsidiaries and others, and loss of or damage to flight equipment, whether on the ground or in flight. we also maintain other types of insurance such as workers’ compensation and employer’s liability, with limits and deductibles that we believe are standard within the industry. since september 11, 2001, we and other airlines have been unable to obtain coverage for liability to persons other than employees and passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events, which is called war risk coverage, at reasonable rates from the commercial insurance market. we, therefore, purchased our war risk coverage through a special program administered by the faa, as have most other u.s. airlines. this program, which currently expires september 30, 2014, 17 has been extended numerous times in the past. if this program were not to be extended, we would likely face a material increase in the cost of war risk coverage, and because of competitive pressures in the industry, our ability to pass this additional cost to passengers may be limited. in addition, we have obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the faa, resulting in lower premiums than if we had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. if the federal insurance program terminates, we would likely face a material increase in the cost of war risk insurance. see part i, item 1a. risk factors - "increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact our operations and financial results." in addition, insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general following september 11, 2001. while the price of commercial insurance has declined since the period immediately after the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001, if commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to the company or significantly increase its cost, the company would be materially adversely affected. customer service we are committed to consistently deliver safe, reliable and convenient service to our customers in every aspect of our operation. our 2013 operating performance was negatively impacted by more severe summer weather conditions as compared to 2012. we reported the following operating statistics to the dot for american's mainline operations for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012:   2013   2012   better (worse) on-time performance (a) 77.6 %   76.9 %   0.7  pts completion factor (b) 98.2 %   98.2 %   — mishandled baggage (c) 3.02   2.92   (3.4)% customer complaints (d) 1.99   1.80   (10.6)% (a) percentage of reported flight operations arriving on time as defined by the dot. (b) percentage of scheduled flight operations completed. (c) rate of mishandled baggage reports per 1,000 passengers. (d) rate of customer complaints filed with the dot per 100,000 enplanements. frequent flyer programs  american established aadvantage® to develop passenger loyalty by offering awards to travelers for their continued patronage. we believe that the aadvantage program is one of our competitive strengths. aadvantage benefits from a growing base of approximately 74 million members with desirable demographics who have demonstrated a strong willingness to collect aadvantage miles over other loyalty program incentives and are generally disposed to adjusting their purchasing behavior in order to earn additional aadvantage miles. aadvantage members earn mileage credits by flying on american, the american eagle carriers, the third-party regional carriers and other participating airlines or by using services of other participants in the aadvantage program. mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel on american, the american eagle carriers or other participating airlines, or for other awards. once a member accrues sufficient mileage for an award, the member may book award travel. most travel awards are subject to capacity-controlled seating. a member's mileage credit does not expire as long as that member has any type of qualifying activity at least once every 18 months. american sells mileage credits and related services to other participants in the aadvantage program. there are over 1,000 program participants, including a leading credit card issuer (citibank), hotels, car rental companies and other products and services companies in the aadvantage program. we believe that program participants benefit from the sustained purchasing behavior of aadvantage members, which translates into a recurring stream of revenues for aadvantage. under our agreements with aadvantage members and program participants, we reserve the right to change the aadvantage program at any time without notice, and may end the program with six months notice. as of december 31, 2013, aadvantage had approximately 74 million total members, and 622.3 billion outstanding award miles. during 2013, aadvantage issued approximately 202.8 billion miles, of which approximately 64% were sold to program participants. see part ii, item 7. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - "critical accounting policies and estimates" for more information on aadvantage. us airways offers a similar frequent flyer program under the dividend miles brand that allows participants to earn mileage credits for each paid flight segment on us airways and certain other airlines that participate in the program. participants flying in first class or us airways' international business class (envoy class) may receive additional mileage credits. participants can also receive mileage credits through special promotions that us airways periodically offers and may also earn mileage credits by utilizing certain credit cards and purchasing services from non-airline partners such as hotels and rental car agencies. us 18 airways sells mileage credits to credit card companies, hotels, car rental agencies and others that participate in the dividend miles program. mileage credits can be redeemed for travel awards on us airways or other participating airlines. us airways and the other participating airline partners limit the number of seats per flight that are available for redemption by award recipients by using various inventory management techniques. award travel is generally not permitted on blackout dates, which correspond to certain holiday periods or peak travel dates. we charge various fees for issuing awards dependent upon destination and booking method and for issuing awards within 21 days of the travel date. we reserve the right to terminate dividend miles or portions of the program at any time. program rules, partners, special offers, blackout dates, awards and requisite mileage levels for awards are subject to change. effective january 7, 2014, aadvantage and dividend miles members can earn and redeem miles when traveling across either airline's network. all travel on eligible tickets on both airlines will count toward qualification for elite status in the customer's program of choice. elite members of each airline can enjoy select reciprocal benefits of both the aadvantage and dividend miles programs, including first and business class check-in, priority security and priority boarding, complimentary access to preferred seats, priority baggage delivery, and checked bags at no charge, consistent with the current baggage policies for each carrier. the us airways dividend miles program will transition to the aadvantage frequent flyer program as soon as commercially feasible. ticket distribution passengers can book tickets for travel on american or us airways through several distribution channels including their direct websites (www.aa.com and www.usairways.com), our reservations centers and third-party distribution channels, including those provided by or through global distribution systems (e.g., amadeus, sabre and travelport), conventional travel agents and online travel agents (e.g., expedia, orbitz and travelocity). to remain competitive, we will need to manage successfully our distribution costs and rights, increase our distribution flexibility and improve the functionality of third-party distribution channels, while maintaining an industry-competitive cost structure. for more discussion, see part i, item 1a. risk factors - "we rely on third party distribution channels and must manage effectively the costs, rights and functionality of these channels." seasonality and other factors  due to the greater demand for air and leisure travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be greater than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. general economic conditions, fears of terrorism or war, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor actions, weather, natural disasters, outbreaks of disease, and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern. accordingly, the results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year. unaudited quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended december 31, 2013 is included in note 16 to aag's consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8a and note 15 to american's consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8b. available information  the sec allows aag and american to incorporate information by reference into this form 10-k. this means that aag and american can disclose important information to you by referring you to another document filed separately with the sec. any information incorporated by reference into this form 10-k is considered to be a part of this form 10-k, except for any information that is superseded by information that is included directly in this form 10-k or incorporated by reference subsequent to the date of this form 10-k. aag and american do not incorporate the contents of their website into this form 10-k. a copy of this annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act), are available free of charge at www.aa.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec and at the website maintained by the sec at www.sec.gov. in addition, additional information is available regarding us airways group and us airways in the annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2013 that us airways group and us airways filed with the sec, which is available free of charge at www.usairways.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they electronically file such material with the sec and at the website maintained by the sec at www.sec.gov. aag has made and expects to make public disclosures of certain information regarding aag and its subsidiaries to investors and the general public by means of social media sites, including, but not limited to, facebook and twitter and a website maintained by us to provide information regarding aag’s reorganization pursuant its plan of reorganization under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code. investors are encouraged to (i) follow american (@americanair) on twitter, (ii) "like" 19 american (www.facebook.com/americanairlines) on its facebook page, (iii) follow american (www.google.com/+americanairlines) on google+; (iv) follow american (www.pinterest.com/ americanair) on pinterest; (v) follow american (www.instagram.com/americanair) on instagram; (vi) "like" american (www.foursquare.com/americanair) on foursquare; (vii) follow american (www.linkedin.com/company/american-airlines) on linkedin; (viii) subscribe to american (www.youtube.com/user/americanairlines) on youtube; (ix) visit http://www.aa.com/arriving or usairways.com/arriving for updated information regarding aag, us airways group and the merger and (x) visit www.amrcaseinfo.com for updated information regarding aag and certain of its subsidiaries’ plan of reorganization under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code. neither aag nor american incorporates the contents of its social media posts or websites into this form 10-k. 20 glossary of terms "1998 plan" means the amr 1998 long term incentive plan. "2003 plan" means the amr 2003 employee stock incentive plan. "2009 plan" means the amr 2009 long term incentive plan. "2011 plan" means the us airways group 2011 incentive award plan. "2013 citicorp credit facility" means the $1.6 billion term loan facility provided for by the loan agreement, as amended, entered into may 23, 2013 among us airways, certain affiliates of us airways and certain lenders. "2013 iap" means aag 2013 incentive award plan. "aadvantage" means the aadvantage® frequent flyer program. "aag" means american airlines group inc. (formerly named amr corporation). "aag common stock" means aag’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share. "aag series a preferred stock" means aag’s series a convertible preferred stock, with a stated value $25.00 per share, and issued in accordance with the plan. "aba" means american beacon advisors, inc. "abo" means accumulated benefit obligation. "act" means wright amendment reform act of 2006. "afa" means association of flight attendants-cwa. "air wisconsin" means air wisconsin airlines corporation. "alpa" means air line pilots association. "american" means american airlines, inc. "american eagle" means american eagle airlines, inc. "amr" means amr corporation and is used to reference aag prior to december 9, 2013. "amr eagle" means amr eagle holding corporation. "amt" means alternative minimum tax. "anca" means airport noise and capacity act of 1990. "apa" means allied pilots association. "apbo" means accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. "apfa" means association of professional flight attendants. "asif" means aviation security infrastructure fee. "asm" means available seat mile and is a basic measure of production. one asm represents one seat flown one mile. "atc" means air traffic control. "average stage length" means the average of the distances flown on each segment of every route. "aviation act" means subtitle vii of title 49 of the united states code, as amended. "aviation security act" means the aviation and transportation security act enacted in november 2001. "bankruptcy code" means chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code. "bankruptcy court" means the united states bankruptcy court for the southern district of new york. "block hours" means the hours measured from the moment an aircraft first moves under its own power, including taxi time, for the purposes of flight until the aircraft is docked at the next point of landing and its power is shut down. 21 "casm" means operating cost per available seat mile and is equal to operating expenses divided by asms. "cbas" means collective bargaining agreements. "cercla" or the "superfund act" means comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act. "certificate of incorporation" means aag’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation. "cftc" means commodity futures trading commission. "chapter 11 cases" means the voluntary petitions for relief filed on november 29, 2011 by the debtors. "chautauqua" means chautauqua airlines, inc. "company" means aag and its consolidated subsidiaries. "confirmation order" means the confirmation order entered by the bankruptcy court october 21, 2013 in connection with the chapter 11 cases. "craf" means u.s. civil reserve air fleet. "credit facilities" mean the $1.9 billion term loan facility and the $1.0 billion revolving credit facility provided for by the credit and guaranty agreement, as amended, entered into june 27, 2013 between aag, american and certain lenders. "crsus" means cash-settled restricted stock unit awards. "csars" means cash-settled stock appreciation rights. "cwa" means communications workers of america.  "debtor" means amr corporation. "debtors" means american, and certain of amr’s other direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries. "disputed claims reserve" means shares of aag common stock held in reserve for payment to holders of disputed claims at the effective date, to the extent such disputed claims become allowed single-dip unsecured claims after the effective date. "doj" means the u.s. department of justice. "double-dip unsecured claims" means claims of all creditors holding general unsecured claims against american that are guaranteed by aag and general unsecured claims against aag that are guaranteed by american. "dot" means the u.s. department of transportation. "eetc" means enhanced equipment trust certificate. "effective date" means december 9, 2013. "embraer" means embraer s.a. "envoy class" means us airways’ international business class. "epa" means the u.s. environmental protection agency. "ethics standards" means aag’s and american’s standards of business conduct. "ets" means eu emissions trading scheme. "eu" means european union. "expressjet" means expressjet, inc. "faa" means federal aviation administration. "iam" means international association of machinists & aerospace workers. "ibt" means international brotherhood of teamsters. "icao" means international civil aviation organization. "internal revenue code" means the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. 22 "jbas" means joint business agreements. "libor" means the london interbank offered rate for deposits of u.s. dollars. "mainline" means the operations of american and us airways, as applicable, and exclude regional operations. "merger" means the merger of merger sub with and into us airways group in accordance with the merger agreement. "merger agreement" means agreement and plan of merger dated as of february 13, 2013, as amended. "merger sub" means amr merger sub, inc. "mesa" means mesa airlines, inc. "mou" means memorandum of understanding. "msc" means material services company, inc. "nasdaq" means nasdaq global select market. "nmb" means national mediation board. "nol" means net operating loss. "nol carryforwards" means a deduction in any taxable year for net operating losses carried over from prior taxable years. "nyse" means new york stock exchange. "oci" means other comprehensive income. "passenger enplanements" means the number of passengers on board an aircraft, including local, connecting and through passengers. "passenger load factor" means the percentage of available seats that are filled with revenue passengers. "pbo" means projected benefit obligation. "peb" means presidential emergency board. "pfc" means passenger facility charge. "piedmont" means piedmont airlines, inc. "plan" means the debtors’ fourth amended joint plan of reorganization. "prasm" means passenger revenue per available seat mile and is equal to passenger revenues divided by asms. "proxy statement" means american airlines group inc.’s proxy statement for the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders of american airlines group inc. "psa" means psa airlines, inc. "rasm" means the total revenue per available seat mile and is equal to the total revenues divided by total mainline and third-party regional carrier asms. "republic" means republic airline, inc. "rla" means railway labor act. "rpm" means revenue passenger mile and is a basic measure of sales volume. one rpm represents one passenger flown one mile. "rsus" means restricted stock units. "s&p" means standard and poor's financial services, llc. "sabre" means sabre holdings corporation, sabre inc. and sabre travel international limited. "sars" means stock-settled stock appreciation rights. "sec" means securities and exchange commission. "second circuit" means the united states court of appeals for the second circuit. 23 "section 382" means section 382 of the internal revenue code. "securities act" means securities act of 1933, as amended. "senior secured notes" means 7.5% senior secured notes due 2016. "skywest" means skywest airlines, inc. "slots" means landing and take-off rights and authorizations and other facilities. "stabilization act" means air transportation safety and system stabilization act. "standards of business conduct" means aag’s code of ethics. "tsa" means transportation security administration. "twu" means transport workers union. "usapa" means us airline pilots association. "us airways" means us airways, inc. "us airways group" means us airways group, inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. "us airways group code" means us airways group code of business conduct and ethics. "us airways group common stock" means us airways group common stock, par value $0.01 per share. "vies" means variable interest entities. "wsg" means international air transport association’s worldwide scheduling guidelines. "yield" means a measure of airline revenue derived by dividing passenger revenue by rpms. 24 item 1a. risk factors below are certain risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, or the trading price of our common stock or other securities. we caution the reader that these risk factors may not be exhaustive. we operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time. management cannot predict such new risks and uncertainties, nor can it assess the extent to which any of the risk factors below or any such new risks and uncertainties, or any combination thereof, may impact our business. risk factors relating to the company and industry-related risks we could experience significant operating losses in the future. for a number of reasons, including those addressed in these risk factors, we might fail to achieve or maintain profitability and might experience significant losses. in particular, the condition of the economy, the level and volatility of fuel prices, the state of travel demand and intense competition in the airline industry have had and will continue to have an impact on our operating results, and may increase the risk that we will experience losses. downturns in economic conditions adversely affect our business. due to the discretionary nature of business and leisure travel spending, airline industry revenues are heavily influenced by the condition of the u.s. economy and economies in other regions of the world. unfavorable conditions in these broader economies have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased passenger demand for air travel and changes in booking practices, both of which in turn have had, and may have in the future, a strong negative effect on our revenues. in addition, during challenging economic times, actions by our competitors to increase their revenues can have an adverse impact on our revenues. see "the airline industry is intensely competitive and dynamic" below. certain labor agreements to which we are a party limit our ability to reduce the number of aircraft in operation, and the utilization of such aircraft, below certain levels. as a result, we may not be able to optimize the number of aircraft in operation in response to a decrease in passenger demand for air travel. our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices and significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on our operating results and liquidity. our operating results are materially impacted by changes in the availability, price volatility and cost of aircraft fuel, which represents one of the largest single cost items in our business. jet fuel market prices have fluctuated substantially over the past several years and prices continued to be volatile in 2013. because of the amount of fuel needed to operate our business, even a relatively small increase in the price of fuel can have a material adverse aggregate effect on our operating results and liquidity. due to the competitive nature of the airline industry and unpredictability of the market, we can offer no assurance that we may be able to increase our fares, impose fuel surcharges or otherwise increase revenues sufficiently to offset fuel price increases. although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, we cannot predict the future availability, price volatility or cost of aircraft fuel. natural disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in fuel-related governmental policy, the strength of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, changes in access to petroleum product pipelines and terminals, speculation in the energy futures markets, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages, additional fuel price volatility and cost increases in the future. we have a large number of older aircraft in our fleet, and these aircraft are not as fuel efficient as more recent models of aircraft, including those we have on order. we intend to continue to execute our fleet renewal plans to, among other things, improve the fuel efficiency of our fleet, and we are dependent on a limited number of major aircraft manufacturers to deliver aircraft on schedule. if we experience delays in delivery of the more fuel efficient aircraft that we have on order, we will be adversely affected. our aviation fuel purchase contracts generally do not provide meaningful price protection against increases in fuel costs. prior to the closing of the merger, we sought to manage the risk of fuel price increases by using derivative contracts. there can be no assurance that, at any given time, we will have derivatives in place to provide any particular level of protection against increased fuel costs or that our counterparties will be able to perform under our derivative contracts. to the extent we use derivative contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if prices decline significantly, such derivative contracts may limit our ability to benefit from lower fuel costs in the future. also, a rapid decline in the projected price of fuel at a time when we have fuel hedging contracts in place could adversely impact our short-term liquidity, because 25 hedge counterparties could require that we post collateral in the form of cash or letters of credit. see also the discussion in part ii, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk - "aag market risk sensitive instruments and positions - aircraft fuel" and "american airlines market risk sensitive instruments and positions - aircraft fuel." in addition, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 and regulations promulgated by the commodity futures trading commission (cftc) introduce new requirements for centralized clearing for over-the-counter derivatives. this may include our fuel derivative contracts. our board of directors has approved our election of the cftc’s end-user exemption, which permits us as a non-financial end user of derivatives to hedge commercial risk and be exempt from the cftc mandatory clearing requirements. however, depending on the final regulations adopted by the cftc and other regulators, our derivative contract counterparties may be subject to regulatory requirements and resulting new practices that may raise their costs. those increased costs may in turn be passed on to us, resulting in increased transaction costs to execute derivative contracts and lower credit thresholds to post collateral. we have not entered into any fuel hedges since the effective date and our current policy is not to do so. assuming we continue to pursue this policy, once our existing hedge contracts expire or otherwise terminate, we will be fully exposed to fluctuations in fuel prices. the airline industry is intensely competitive and dynamic. our competitors include other major domestic airlines and foreign, regional and new entrant airlines, as well as joint ventures formed by some of these airlines, many of which have more financial or other resources and/or lower cost structures than ours, as well as other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. in many of our markets we compete with at least one low-cost air carrier. our revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers in many areas including pricing, scheduling, capacity and promotions, which can have a substantial adverse impact not only on our revenues, but on overall industry revenues. these factors may become even more significant in periods when the industry experiences large losses, as airlines under financial stress, or in bankruptcy, may institute pricing structures intended to achieve near-term survival rather than long-term viability. low-cost carriers have a profound impact on industry revenues. using the advantage of low unit costs, these carriers offer lower fares in order to shift demand from larger, more established airlines. some low-cost carriers, which have cost structures lower than ours, have better recent financial performance and have announced growth strategies including commitments to acquire significant numbers of aircraft for delivery in the next few years. these low-cost carriers are expected to continue to increase their market share through growth and, potentially, consolidation, and could continue to have an impact on our overall performance. for example, amendments to the wright amendment have reduced geographic restrictions on operations by southwest airlines and other carriers at dal and will eliminate all domestic non-stop geographic restrictions on operations there in october 2014. this has increased low-cost carrier competition for our operations at dallas/fort worth (dfw). in addition, we expect that the two gates at dal that we divested as part of our settlement of antitrust litigation related to the merger will be allocated to low-cost carriers. the actions of the low-cost carriers, including those described above, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. certain airline alliances have been, or may in the future be, granted immunity from antitrust regulations by governmental authorities for specific areas of cooperation, such as joint pricing decisions. to the extent alliances formed by our competitors can undertake activities that are not available to us, our ability to effectively compete may be hindered. we have implemented a jba with british airways, iberia and finnair, and antitrust-immunized cooperation with british airways, iberia, finnair and royal jordanian. we are in negotiations with iag concerning the terms by which flights operated by us airways will be added to our existing transatlantic joint business. we have thus far been unable to reach agreement with iag and are uncertain if we will be able to reach an agreement. failure to reach an agreement could have a material adverse effect on the jba or cause its dissolution, which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. in addition, we have implemented an antitrust-immunized jba with japan airlines and a jba with qantas. no assurances can be given as to any other arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits that we may derive from such arrangements. additional mergers and other forms of industry consolidation, including antitrust immunity grants, may take place and may not involve us as a participant. depending on which carriers combine and which assets, if any, are sold or otherwise transferred to other carriers in connection with such combinations, our competitive position relative to the post-combination carriers or other carriers that acquire such assets could be harmed. in addition, as carriers combine through traditional mergers or antitrust immunity grants, their route networks will grow, and that growth will result in greater overlap with our network, which in turn could result in lower overall market share and revenues for us. such consolidation is not limited to the u.s., but could include further consolidation among international carriers in europe and elsewhere. 26 we may be unable to integrate operations successfully and realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the merger. the merger involves the combination of two companies that operated as independent public companies prior to the merger, and each of which operated its own international network airline. historically, the integration of separate airlines has often proven to be more time consuming and to require more resources than initially estimated. we must devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices, cultures and operations. potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: • the inability to successfully combine our businesses in a manner that permits us to achieve the synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the merger; • the challenge of integrating complex systems, operating procedures, regulatory compliance programs, technology, aircraft fleets, networks, and other assets in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies; • the effects of divestitures and other operational commitments in connection with the settlement of the litigation brought by the doj and certain states prior to the closing of the merger; • the challenge of forming and maintaining an effective and cohesive management team; • the diversion of the attention of our management and other key employees; • the challenge of integrating workforces while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service and running an efficient operation; • the risks relating to integrating various computer, communications and other technology systems, including designing and implementing an integrated customer reservations system, that will be necessary to operate american and us airways as a single airline and to achieve cost synergies by eliminating redundancies in the businesses; • the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing business; • the branding or rebranding initiatives may involve substantial costs and may not be favorably received by customers; and • the potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than we currently anticipate and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger, including costs in excess of the cash transition costs that we currently anticipate. we have submitted to the faa a transition plan for merging the day-to-day operations of american and us airways under a single operating certificate. the issuance of a single operating certificate will occur when the faa agrees that we have achieved a level of integration that can be safely managed under one certificate. while the parties currently believe that such approval can be obtained within two years from the closing of the merger, the actual time required and cost incurred to receive this approval cannot be predicted. any delay in the grant of such approval or increase in costs beyond those presently expected could have a material adverse effect on the completion date of our integration plan and receipt of the benefits expected from that plan. see "we may face challenges in integrating our computer, communications and other technology systems" below. accordingly, we may not be able to realize the contemplated benefits of the merger fully, or at all, or it may take longer and cost more to realize such benefits than expected. our indebtedness and other obligations are substantial and could adversely affect our business and liquidity. we have significant amounts of indebtedness and other obligations, including pension obligations, obligations to make future payments on flight equipment and property leases, and substantial non-cancelable obligations under aircraft and related spare engine purchase agreements. moreover, currently a substantial portion of our assets are pledged to secure our indebtedness. our substantial indebtedness and other obligations could have important consequences. for example, they: • limit our ability to obtain additional funding for working capital, to withstand operating risks that are customary in the industry, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, integration costs, and general corporate purposes, and adversely affect the terms on which such funding can be obtained; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness and other obligations, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and catastrophic external events; • contain restrictive covenants that could: ▪ limit our ability to merge, consolidate, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness, issue preferred stock, make investments and pay dividends; and ▪ significantly constrain our ability to respond, or respond quickly, to unexpected disruptions in our own operations, the u.s. or global economies, or the businesses in which we operate, or to take advantage of 27 opportunities that would improve our business, operations, or competitive position versus other airlines; and • limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. we will need to obtain sufficient financing or other capital to operate successfully. our business plan contemplates significant investments in modernizing our fleet and integrating the american and us airways businesses. significant capital resources will be required to execute this plan, and, as a result, we estimate that, based on our commitments as of december 31, 2013, our planned aggregate expenditures for aircraft purchase commitments and certain engines on a consolidated basis for calendar years 2014-2018 would be approximately $19.5 billion of which $16.3 billion represents commitments by american. we also currently anticipate cash transition costs to integrate our businesses following the merger to be approximately $1.2 billion, and these costs could exceed our expectations. accordingly, we will need substantial financing or other capital resources. in addition, as of the date of this report, we had not secured financing commitments for some of the aircraft that we have on order, and we cannot be assured of the availability or cost of that financing. in particular, we do not have financing commitments for the following aircraft currently on order and scheduled to be delivered through 2016: 16 airbus 320 family aircraft, 10 boeing 777-300er aircraft and 18 boeing 787 aircraft. in addition, we do not have financing commitments in place for the majority of aircraft currently on order and scheduled to be delivered in 2017 and beyond. the number of aircraft for which we do not have financing may change as we exercise purchase options or otherwise change our purchase and delivery schedules. if we are unable to arrange financing for such aircraft at customary advance rates and on terms and conditions acceptable to us, we may need to use cash from operations or cash on hand to purchase such aircraft or may seek to negotiate deferrals for such aircraft with the aircraft manufacturers. depending on numerous factors, many of which are out of our control, such as the state of the domestic and global economies, the capital and credit markets’ view of our prospects and the airline industry in general, and the general availability of debt and equity capital at the time we seek capital, the financing or other capital resources that we will need may not be available to us, or may only be available on onerous terms and conditions. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining financing or other needed sources of capital to operate successfully. an inability to obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. increased costs of financing, a reduction in the availability of financing and fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, the availability and cost of credit, energy costs and geopolitical issues, combined with continued changes in business activity levels and consumer confidence, increased unemployment and volatile oil prices, have contributed to unprecedented levels of volatility in the capital and credit markets. as a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit have in the recent past been and may in the future be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. these changes in the domestic and global financial markets may increase our costs of financing and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing needed for the acquisition of aircraft that we have contractual commitments to purchase and for other types of financings we may seek in order to refinance debt maturities, raise capital or fund other types of obligations. any downgrades to our credit rating may likewise increase the cost and reduce the availability of financing. further, a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on the london interbank offered rate for deposits of u.s. dollars (libor). libor tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, rates set by the federal reserve and other central banks, and the supply of and demand for credit in the london interbank market. we have not hedged our interest rate exposure with respect to our 2013 citicorp credit facility, the credit facilities and other of our floating rate debt, and accordingly, our interest expense for any particular period may fluctuate based on libor and other variable interest rates. to the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, in which event we may have difficulties making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. see also the discussion of interest rate risk in part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk "aag market risk sensitive instruments and positions - interest" and "american airlines market risk sensitive instruments and positions - interest." our high level of fixed obligations may limit our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive developments and causes our business to be vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions. we have a significant amount of fixed obligations, including debt, pension costs, aircraft leases and financings, aircraft purchase commitments, leases and developments of airport and other facilities and other cash obligations. we also have certain guaranteed costs associated with our regional operations. 28 as a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with these obligations: • a decrease in revenues results in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings; • we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed obligations if our revenues decline or costs increase; and • we may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed obligations instead of funding general corporate requirements, including capital expenditures. these obligations also impact our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business, and could materially adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. we have significant pension and other post-employment benefit funding obligations, which may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. our pension funding obligations are significant. the amount of these obligations will depend on the performance of investments held in trust by the pension plans, interest rates for determining liabilities and actuarial experience. currently, our minimum funding obligation for our pension plans is subject to temporary favorable rules that are scheduled to expire at the end of 2017. upon the expiration of those rules, our funding obligations are likely to increase materially. in addition, we may have significant obligations for other post-employment benefits depending on the outcome of an adversary proceeding related to retiree medical and life insurance obligations filed in the chapter 11 cases. any failure to comply with the covenants contained in our financing arrangements may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the terms of our 2013 citicorp credit facility and the credit facilities require us to ensure that aag and its restricted subsidiaries maintain consolidated unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and amounts available to be drawn under revolving credit facilities in an aggregate amount not less than $2.0 billion, and the 2013 citicorp credit facility also requires us and the other obligors thereunder to hold not less than $750 million (subject to partial reductions upon certain reductions in the outstanding amount of the loan) of that amount in accounts subject to control agreements. our ability to comply with these liquidity covenants while paying the fixed costs associated with our contractual obligations and our other expenses, including significant pension and other post-employment funding obligations and cash transition costs associated with the merger, will depend on our operating performance and cash flow, which are seasonal, as well as factors including fuel costs and general economic and political conditions. in addition, our credit facilities and certain other financing arrangements include covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to pay dividends and make certain other payments, make certain investments, incur additional indebtedness, enter into certain affiliate transactions and engage in certain business activities, in each case subject to certain exceptions. the factors affecting our liquidity (and our ability to comply with related liquidity and other covenants) will remain subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties, many of which are outside our control. any breach of our liquidity and other covenants or failure to timely pay our obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness, the withholding of credit card proceeds by our credit card processors and the exercise of remedies by our creditors and lessors. in such a situation, we may not be able to fulfill our contractual obligations, repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments or otherwise cover our fixed costs. if our financial condition worsens, provisions in our credit card processing and other commercial agreements may adversely affect our liquidity. we have agreements with companies that process customer credit card transactions for the sale of air travel and other services. these agreements allow these processing companies, under certain conditions (including, with respect to certain agreements, the failure of american to maintain certain levels of liquidity) to hold an amount of our cash (a "holdback) equal to some or all of the advance ticket sales that have been processed by that company, but for which we have not yet provided the air transportation. we are not currently required to maintain any holdbacks pursuant to these requirements. these holdback requirements can be modified at the discretion of the processing companies upon the occurrence of specific events, including material adverse changes in our financial condition. an increase in the current holdback balances to higher percentages up to and including 100% of relevant advanced ticket sales could materially reduce our liquidity. likewise, other of our commercial agreements contain provisions that allow other entities to impose less favorable terms, including the acceleration of amounts due, in the event of material adverse changes in our financial condition. 29 the historical consolidated financial information contained in this report is not directly comparable to our financial information for prior or future periods. a number of factors render our historical consolidated financial information not directly comparable to our financial information for prior or future periods, including: • because the merger was completed on december 9, 2013, aag's consolidated results of operations include the results of us airways group and its subsidiaries only for 23 days of 2013; • the merger was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting with aag as the acquiring entity, resulting in an adjustment to the carrying values of the assets and liabilities of us airways group compared to its historical carrying values; • during the course of our chapter 11 cases and in connection with our emergence from chapter 11 and the effectiveness of the plan, we recorded material expenses, charges, costs and other accounting entries related to our restructuring process, many of which generally had not been incurred in the past and are not expected to be incurred in the future; and • certain prior accounting presentations, including the manner in which we report our regional operations, have been changed and historical results restated to conform to the current presentation. due to these and other factors largely related to the merger and the plan, investors are cautioned as to the limitations of our historical financial statements and urged to review carefully part ii, item 7. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations. relations between air carriers and labor unions in the u.s. are governed by the railway labor act (rla). under the rla, cbas generally contain "amendable dates" rather than expiration dates, and the rla requires that a carrier maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the national mediation board (nmb). if no agreement is reached during direct negotiations between the parties, either party may request that the nmb appoint a federal mediator. the rla prescribes no timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation processes, and it is not unusual for those processes to last for many months or even several years. if no agreement is reached in mediation, the nmb in its discretion may declare that an impasse exists and proffer binding arbitration to the parties. either party may decline to submit to arbitration, and if arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day "cooling off" period commences. during or after that period, a presidential emergency board (peb) may be established, which examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. the peb process lasts for 30 days and is followed by another 30-day "cooling off" period. at the end of a "cooling off" period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by congress, the labor organization may exercise "self-help," such as a strike, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are currently in negotiations with the iam with respect to us airways mechanics, stock clerks and related employees, and fleet service employees, and the afa with respect to piedmont flight attendants.  none of these unions presently may lawfully engage in concerted refusals to work, such as strikes, slow-downs, sick-outs or other similar activity, against us. nonetheless, there is a risk that disgruntled employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in one or more concerted refusals to work that could individually or collectively harm the operation of our airline and impair our financial performance. see part i, item 1 business-"employees and labor relations." the inability to maintain labor costs at competitive levels would harm our financial performance. currently, we believe our labor costs are competitive relative to the other large network carriers. however, we cannot provide assurance that labor costs going forward will remain competitive because some of our agreements are amendable now and others may become amendable, competitors may significantly reduce their labor costs or we may agree to higher-cost provisions in our current or future labor negotiations. as of december 31, 2013, approximately 73% of our employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions. some of our unions have brought and may continue to bring grievances to binding arbitration, including related to wages. unions may also bring court actions and may seek to compel us to engage in bargaining processes where we believe we have no such obligation. if successful, there is a risk these judicial or arbitral avenues could create material additional costs that we did not anticipate. interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports could have a material adverse impact on our operations. we operate principally through hubs in charlotte, chicago, dallas/fort worth, los angeles, miami, new york city, philadelphia, phoenix and washington, d.c. substantially all of our flights either originate in or fly into one of these locations. 30 a significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs resulting from atc delays, weather conditions, natural disasters, growth constraints, relations with third-party service providers, failure of computer systems, facility disruptions, labor relations, power supplies, fuel supplies, terrorist activities or otherwise could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of our flights and, as a result, could have a severe impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system and, at some airports, adequate slots, we may be unable to operate our existing flight schedule and to expand or change our route network in the future, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations. in order to operate our existing and proposed flight schedule and, where appropriate, add service along new or existing routes, we must be able to maintain and/or obtain adequate gates, ticketing facilities, operations areas, and office space. as airports around the world become more congested, we will not always be able to ensure that our plans for new service can be implemented in a commercially viable manner, given operating constraints at airports throughout our network, including due to inadequate facilities at desirable airports. further, our operating costs at airports at which we operate, including our hubs, may increase significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that we may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. in some circumstances, such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without our approval. in addition, operations at four major domestic airports, certain smaller domestic airports and certain foreign airports served by us are regulated by governmental entities through the use of slots or similar regulatory mechanisms which limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. each slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period and may have other operational restrictions as well. in the u.s., the faa currently regulates the allocation of slot or slot exemptions at ronald reagan washington national airport and three new york city airports: newark, jfk and laguardia. our operations at these airports generally require the allocation of slots or similar regulatory authority. similarly, our operations at international airports in frankfurt, london heathrow, paris and other airports outside the u.s. are regulated by local slot authorities pursuant to the international air transport association’s worldwide scheduling guidelines and applicable local law. we cannot provide any assurance that regulatory changes regarding the allocation of slots or similar regulatory authority will not have a material adverse impact on our operations. for example, the faa is planning a new rulemaking in 2014 to modify the current rules limiting flight operations at new york city’s jfk and laguardia airports. in connection with the settlement of litigation relating to the merger brought by the doj and certain states, we entered into settlement agreements that provide for certain asset divestitures. in the agreement with the united states government, among other things, we agreed to divest and not reacquire for ten years certain rights and assets consisting of 52 slot pairs at washington reagan national airport, and 17 slot pairs at laguardia, in each case together with and associated gates and related ground facilities necessary to operate those slot pairs, and two gates at each of boston logan international airport, chicago o’hare international airport, dallas love field, los angeles international airport and miami international airport. the agreement with the plaintiff states requires our airlines, subject to certain conditions and exceptions, to maintain certain hub operations in a manner generally consistent with historical operations and to continue to provide scheduled daily service to certain specified communities, both for limited periods of time. in addition, we entered into a related settlement with the dot related to small community service from washington reagan national airport. further, as a consequence of the merger clearance process in the eu, we are required to make available one pair of london heathrow slots for use by another carrier between london and philadelphia, which the acquiring carrier can deploy on another heathrow city pair after operating the slots on london-philadelphia for a period of not less than three consecutive years, and, along with our jba partners, we are required to make available for an initial period of up to seven years one pair of heathrow slots for service between london and miami that may be operated via an intermediate point. any limitation on our ability to acquire or maintain adequate gates, ticketing facilities, operations areas, slots (where applicable), or office space could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we incur problems with any of our third-party regional operators or third-party service providers, our operations could be adversely affected by a resulting decline in revenue or negative public perception about our services. a significant portion of our regional operations are conducted by third-party operators on our behalf, primarily under capacity purchase agreements. due to our reliance on third parties to provide these essential services, we are subject to the risks of disruptions to their operations, which may result from many of the same risk factors disclosed in this report, such as the impact of adverse economic conditions, and other risk factors, such as a bankruptcy restructuring of any of the regional operators. we may also experience disruption to our regional operations if we terminate the capacity purchase agreement with one or more of our current operators and transition the services to another provider. as our regional segment provides revenues to us directly and indirectly (by providing flow traffic to our hubs), any significant disruption to our regional operations would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 31 in addition, our reliance upon others to provide essential services on behalf of our operations may result in our relative inability to control the efficiency and timeliness of contract services. we have entered into agreements with contractors to provide various facilities and services required for our operations, including distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology and services, regional operations, aircraft maintenance, ground services and facilities, reservations and baggage handling. similar agreements may be entered into in any new markets we decide to serve. these agreements are generally subject to termination after notice by the third-party service provider. we are also at risk should one of these service providers cease operations, and there is no guarantee that we could replace these providers on a timely basis with comparably priced providers. volatility in fuel prices, disruptions to capital markets and adverse economic conditions in general have subjected certain of these third-party regional carriers to significant financial pressures, which have led to several bankruptcies among these carriers. any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of contract services, resulting from financial hardships or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on third-party distribution channels and must manage effectively the costs, rights and functionality of these channels. we rely on third-party distribution channels, including those provided by or through global distribution systems, or gdss (e.g., amadeus, sabre and travelport), conventional travel agents and online travel agents, or otas (e.g., expedia, orbitz and travelocity), to distribute a significant portion of our airline tickets, and we expect in the future to continue to rely on these channels and hope to expand their ability to distribute and collect revenues for ancillary products (e.g., fees for selective seating). these distribution channels are more expensive and at present have less functionality in respect of ancillary product offerings than those we operate ourselves, such as our call centers and our website. certain of these distribution channels also effectively restrict the manner in which we distribute our products generally. to remain competitive, we will need to manage successfully our distribution costs and rights, increase our distribution flexibility and improve the functionality of third-party distribution channels, while maintaining an industry-competitive cost structure. any inability to manage our third-party distribution costs, rights and functionality at a competitive level or any material diminishment or disruption in the distribution of our tickets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages. airlines are subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. in the last several years, congress has passed laws, and dot, the faa, the tsa and the department of homeland security have issued a number of directives and other regulations, that affect the airline industry. these requirements impose substantial costs on us and restrict the ways we may conduct our business. for example, the faa from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures or operational restrictions. our failure to timely comply with these requirements has in the past and may in the future result in fines and other enforcement actions by the faa or other regulators. in addition, the faa recently issued its final regulations governing pilot rest periods and work hours for all airlines certificated under part 121 of the federal aviation regulations. the rule, which became effective on january 4, 2014, impacts the required amount and timing of rest periods for pilots between work assignments and modifies duty and rest requirements based on the time of day, number of scheduled segments, flight types, time zones, and other factors. these regulations, or other regulations, could have a material adverse effect on us and the industry. recent dot consumer rules require new procedures for customer handling during long onboard delays, further regulate airline interactions with passengers through the reservations process, at the airport, and on board the aircraft, and require new disclosures concerning airline fares and ancillary fees such as baggage fees. the dot has been aggressively investigating alleged violations of these new rules. other dot rules apply to post-ticket purchase price increases and an expansion of tarmac delay regulations to international airlines. the aviation and transportation security act mandates the federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposes additional security requirements on airports and airlines, most of which are funded by a per-ticket tax on passengers and a tax on airlines. the results of our operations, demand for air travel, and the manner in which we conduct business each may be affected by changes in law and future actions taken by governmental agencies, including: • changes in law which affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports, or the types of fees that can be charged to passengers; • the granting and timing of certain governmental approvals (including antitrust or foreign government 32 approvals) needed for codesharing alliances and other arrangements with other airlines; • restrictions on competitive practices (for example, court orders, or agency regulations or orders, that would curtail an airline’s ability to respond to a competitor); • the adoption of new passenger security standards or regulations that impact customer service standards (for example, a "passenger bill of rights"); • restrictions on airport operations, such as restrictions on the use of slots at airports or the auction or reallocation of slot rights currently held by us; and • the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise restrictions. each additional regulation or other form of regulatory oversight increases costs and adds greater complexity to airline operations and, in some cases, may reduce the demand for air travel. there can be no assurance that our compliance with new rules, anticipated rules or other forms of regulatory oversight will not have a material adverse effect on us. in april 2013, the faa announced the imposition of furloughs that resulted in reduced staffing, including among air traffic controllers, in connection with its implementation of budget reductions related to the federal government’s response to the so-called "sequester" of government funding. these furloughs have been suspended as a result of congressional legislation. however, we cannot predict whether there will be further furloughs or the impact of any such furloughs on our business. any significant reduction in air traffic capacity at key airports in the u.s. could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we also experienced delays in routine non-operational interactions with the faa as a result of the government shut-down in 2013, and we may experience delays again in the event of any future government shut-down. in addition, the atc system is not successfully managing the growing demand for u.s. air travel. air traffic controllers rely on outdated technologies that routinely overwhelm the system and compel airlines to fly inefficient, indirect routes. on february 14, 2012, the faa modernization and reform act of 2012 was signed. the law provides funding for the faa to rebuild its atc system, including switching from radar to a gps-based system. it is uncertain when any improvements to the atc system will take effect. failure to update the atc system in a timely manner and the substantial funding requirements that may be imposed on airlines of a modernized atc system may have a material adverse effect on our business. the ability of u.s. airlines to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the u.s. and foreign governments may be amended from time to time and appropriate slots or facilities may not be made available. we currently operate on a number of international routes under government arrangements that limit the number of airlines permitted to operate on the route, the capacity of the airlines providing services on the route, or the number of airlines allowed access to particular airports. if an open skies policy were to be adopted for any of these routes, such an event could have a material adverse impact on us and could result in the impairment of material amounts of our related tangible and intangible assets. in addition, competition from revenue-sharing joint ventures, jbas, and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of our business and assets on the open skies routes. for example, the open skies air services agreement between the u.s. and the eu, which took effect in march 2008, provides airlines from the u.s. and eu member states open access to each other’s markets, with freedom of pricing and unlimited rights to fly from the u.s. to any airport in the eu, including london’s heathrow airport. as a result of the agreement, we face increased competition in these markets, including heathrow airport. in addition, the open skies agreement between the u.s. and brazil, which was signed in 2010 and takes full effect in 2015, has resulted in increased competition in the u.s./brazil market. the airline industry is heavily taxed. the airline industry is subject to extensive government fees and taxation that negatively impact our revenue. the u.s. airline industry is one of the most heavily taxed of all industries. these fees and taxes have grown significantly in the past decade for domestic flights, and various u.s. fees and taxes also are assessed on international flights. for example, as permitted by federal legislation, most major u.s. airports impose a passenger facility charge per passenger on us. in addition, the governments of foreign countries in which we operate impose on u.s. airlines, including us, various fees and taxes, and these assessments have been increasing in number and amount in recent years. moreover, we are obligated to collect a federal excise tax, commonly referred to as the "ticket tax," on domestic and international air transportation. we collect the excise tax, along with certain other u.s. and foreign taxes and user fees on air transportation (such as a per-ticket tax on passengers to fund the tsa, which fee is scheduled to increase effective july 1, 2014), and pass along the collected amounts to the appropriate governmental agencies. although these taxes are not operating expenses, they represent an additional cost to our customers. there are continuing efforts in congress and in other countries to raise different portions of the various taxes, fees, and charges imposed on airlines and their passengers. increases in such taxes, fees and charges could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. under dot regulations, all governmental taxes and fees must be included in the prices we quote or advertise to our 33 customers. due to the competitive revenue environment, many increases in these fees and taxes have been absorbed by the airline industry rather than being passed on to the customer. further increases in fees and taxes may reduce demand for air travel, and thus our revenues. for example, in january 2014, congress restructured the september 11 security fee, which will increase the fee on some customers. changes to our business model that are designed to increase revenues may not be successful and may cause operational difficulties or decreased demand. we have implemented several new measures designed to increase revenue and offset costs. these measures include charging separately for services that had previously been included within the price of a ticket and increasing other pre-existing fees. we may introduce additional initiatives in the future; however, as time goes on, we expect that it will be more difficult to identify and implement additional initiatives. we cannot assure you that these new measures or any future initiatives will be successful in increasing our revenues. additionally, the implementation of these initiatives creates logistical challenges that could harm the operational performance of our airline. also, the new and increased fees might reduce the demand for air travel on our airline or across the industry in general, particularly if weakened economic conditions continue to make our customers more sensitive to increased travel costs or provide a significant competitive advantage to other carriers that determine not to institute similar charges. the loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. we believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain or attract highly qualified management, technical and other personnel. we may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting other highly qualified personnel. any inability to retain or attract significant numbers of qualified management and other personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by conflicts overseas or terrorist attacks; the travel industry continues to face ongoing security concerns. acts of terrorism or fear of such attacks, including elevated national threat warnings, wars or other military conflicts, may depress air travel, particularly on international routes, and cause declines in revenues and increases in costs. the attacks of september 11, 2001 and continuing terrorist threats and attempted attacks materially impacted and continue to impact air travel. increased security procedures introduced at airports since the attacks and other such measures as may be introduced in the future generate higher operating costs for airlines. the aviation and transportation security act mandated improved flight deck security, deployment of federal air marshals on board flights, improved airport perimeter access security, airline crew security training, enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors, enhanced training and qualifications of security screening personnel, additional provision of passenger data to u.s. customs and enhanced background checks. a concurrent increase in airport security charges and procedures, such as restrictions on carry-on baggage, has also had and may continue to have a disproportionate impact on short-haul travel, which constitutes a significant portion of our flying and revenue. we operate a global business with international operations that are subject to economic and political instability and have been, and in the future may continue to be, adversely affected by numerous events, circumstances or government actions beyond our control. we operate a global business with operations outside of the u.s. from which american derived approximately 40% of its operating revenues and us airways derived approximately 24% of its operating revenues in 2013, as measured and reported to the dot. our current international activities and prospects have been and in the future could be adversely affected by reversals or delays in the opening of foreign markets, exchange controls or other restrictions on repatriation of funds, currency and political risks (including changes in exchange rates and currency devaluations, which are more likely in countries with exchange controls such as venezuela and argentina), environmental regulation, increases in taxes and fees and changes in international government regulation of our operations, including the inability to obtain or retain needed route authorities and/or slots. in particular, fluctuations in foreign currencies, including devaluations, and exchange controls and other restrictions on the repatriation of funds, have significantly affected and may continue to significantly affect our operating performance, liquidity and the value of any cash held outside the u.s. in local currency. for example, the business environment in venezuela has been challenging, with economic uncertainty fueled by currency devaluation, high inflation and governmental restrictions, including currency exchange and payment controls, price controls and the possibility of expropriation of property or other resources. as of december 31, 2013, approximately $710 million of our unrestricted cash balance was held as venezuelan bolivars, valued at a weighted average rate of 6.04 bolivars to the dollar. the period of time to exchange those funds into dollars and repatriate them has been increasing and is presently more than a year. on january 23, 2014, the venezuelan government 34 issued a regulation to implement a new system for determining the exchange rate based on the result of limited periodic sales of dollars known as sicad auctions (currently 11.80 to the dollar based on the february 21, 2014 sicad auction) for repatriation of income from future ticket sales, and introduced new procedures for approval of conversion and repatriation of local currency. the government also enacted a new law effective february 19, 2014 that authorizes additional methods of exchanging venezuelan bolivars at rates other than the controlled base rate of 6.3 to the dollar or the existing sicad auction rate, but the regulations necessary to implement the law are still pending and it is not clear at this point whether or how the new methods may impact the pending balances of venezuelan bolivars held by airlines. we are working with venezuelan authorities regarding the timing and exchange rate applicable to the repatriation of funds held in local currency. further, the current, devalued rates may have an ongoing adverse effect on our reported results if we are unable to fully adjust prices on flights to and from venezuela, of which there can be no assurance. more generally, fluctuations in foreign currencies, including devaluations, cannot be predicted by the company and can significantly affect the value of our assets located outside the united states. these conditions, as well as any further delays, devaluations or imposition of more stringent repatriation restrictions, may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to many forms of environmental regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result. we are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the protection of the environment, including those relating to emissions to the air, discharges to surface and subsurface waters, safe drinking water, and the management of hazardous substances, oils and waste materials. compliance with all environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures, and violations can lead to significant fines and penalties. the epa has proposed changes to underground storage tank regulations that could affect certain airport fuel hydrant systems. airport systems that fall within threshold requirements would need to be modified in order to comply with applicable regulations. additionally, the epa has proposed the draft 2013 national pollutant discharge elimination system general permit for stormwater discharges from industrial activities. this permit would impose new limitations on certain discharges along with mandatory best management practices. concurrently, california has proposed the state final draft industrial general permit for stormwater discharges. this permit employs the use of benchmark values to trigger response actions when exceeding those limits and eliminates group monitoring. these permits have not been finalized, and cost estimates have not been defined, but american and us airways along with other airlines would share a portion of these costs at applicable airports. in addition to the proposed epa and state regulations, several u.s. airport authorities are actively engaged in efforts to limit discharges of de-icing fluid to the environment, often by requiring airlines to participate in the building or reconfiguring of airport de-icing facilities. such efforts are likely to impose additional costs and restrictions on airlines using those airports. we do not believe, however, that such environmental developments will have a material impact on our capital expenditures or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations, operating costs or competitive position. we are also subject to other environmental laws and regulations, including those that require us to investigate and remediate soil or groundwater to meet certain objectives. under federal law, generators of waste materials, and current and former owners or operators of facilities, can be subject to liability for investigation and remediation costs at locations that have been identified as requiring response actions. liability under these laws may be strict, joint and several, meaning that we could be liable for the costs of cleaning up environmental contamination regardless of fault or the amount of wastes directly attributable to us. we have liability for investigation and remediation costs at various sites, although such costs are currently not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business. we have various leases and agreements with respect to real property, tanks and pipelines with airports and other operators. under these leases and agreements, we have agreed to indemnify the lessor or operator against environmental liabilities associated with the real property or operations described under the agreement, even if we are not the party responsible for the initial event that caused the environmental damage. we also participate in leases with other airlines in fuel consortiums and fuel committees at airports, where such indemnities are generally joint and several among the participating airlines. there is increasing global regulatory focus on climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. for example, the eu has established the emissions trading scheme (ets) to regulate carbon dioxide emissions in the eu. the eu adopted a directive under which each eu member state is required to extend the ets to aviation operations. this directive would have required us, beginning in 2012, to annually submit emission allowances in order to operate flights to and from airports in the european economic area (eea), including flights between the u.s. and eu member states. however, in an effort to allow icao time to propose an alternate scheme to manage global aviation emissions, in april 2013 the eu suspended for one year the ets' application to flights entering and departing the eea, limiting its application, for flights flown in 2012, to intra-eea flights only. in october 2013, the icao assembly adopted a resolution calling for the development through icao of a global, market-based scheme for aviation emissions, to be implemented in 2020. subsequently, the eu has proposed amending the eu ets so 35 that the monitoring, reporting and submission of allowances for emissions from flights flown in 2013 would continue to be limited to only intra-eea flights. for flights flown from 2014 to 2020, the scope of coverage under the amendment would include intra-eea flights and the portion of aviation emissions of flights to and from eu member states that take place in european regional airspace. the u.s. enacted legislation in november 2012 which encourages the dot to seek an international solution through icao and that will allow the u.s. secretary of transportation to prohibit u.s. airlines from participating in the ets. ultimately, the scope and application of ets or other emissions trading schemes to our operations, now or in the near future, remains uncertain. we do not anticipate any significant emissions allowance expenditures in 2014. beyond 2014, compliance with the ets or similar emissions-related requirements could significantly increase our operating costs. further, the potential impact of ets or other emissions-related requirements on our costs will ultimately depend on a number of factors, including baseline emissions, the price of emission allowances and the number of future flights subject to ets or other emissions-related requirements. these costs have not been completely defined and could fluctuate. similarly, within the u.s., there is an increasing trend toward regulating greenhouse gas emissions directly under the clean air act. while the epa's recent regulatory activity in this area has focused on industries other than aviation, it is possible that future epa regulations, or new legislation, could impact airlines. several states are also considering initiatives to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emissions inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. these regulatory efforts, both internationally and in the u.s. at the federal and state levels, are still developing, and we cannot yet determine what the final regulatory programs will be in the u.s., the eu or in other areas in which we do business. however, such climate change-related regulatory activity in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results by requiring us to reduce our emissions, purchase allowances or otherwise pay for our emissions. such activity may also impact us indirectly by increasing our operating costs, including fuel costs. governmental authorities in several u.s. and foreign cities are also considering, or have already implemented, aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews and limitations on daytime take-offs and landings. we have been able to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, but our operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread. we rely heavily on technology and automated systems to operate our business, and any failure of these technologies or systems could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are highly dependent on technology and automated systems to operate our business and achieve low operating costs. these technologies and systems include our computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, financial planning, management and accounting systems, telecommunications systems, website, maintenance systems and check-in kiosks. in order for our operations to work efficiently, our website and reservation system must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information and deliver flight information, as well as issue electronic tickets and process critical financial information in a timely manner. substantially all of our tickets are issued to passengers as electronic tickets. we depend on our reservation system, which is hosted and maintained under a long-term contract by a third-party service provider, to be able to issue, track and accept these electronic tickets. if our automated systems are not functioning or if our third-party service providers were to fail to adequately provide technical support, system maintenance or timely software upgrades for any one of our key existing systems, we could experience service disruptions or delays, which could harm our business and result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses and decrease our revenues. in the event that one or more of our primary technology or systems vendors goes into bankruptcy, ceases operations or fails to perform as promised, replacement services may not be readily available on a timely basis, at competitive rates or at all, and any transition time to a new system may be significant. our automated systems cannot be completely protected against other events that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, data theft, equipment and software failures, computer viruses or telecommunications failures. substantial or sustained system failures could cause service delays or failures and result in our customers purchasing tickets from other airlines. we cannot assure you that our security measures, change control procedures or disaster recovery plans are adequate to prevent disruptions or delays. disruption in or changes to these systems could result in a disruption to our business and the loss of important data. any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we face challenges in integrating our computer, communications and other technology systems. among the principal risks of integrating our businesses and operations are the risks relating to integrating various computer, communications and other technology systems, including designing and implementing an integrated customer reservations system, that will be necessary to operate us airways and american as a single airline and to achieve cost synergies by eliminating redundancies in the businesses. the integration of these systems in a number of prior airline mergers has taken longer, been more disruptive and cost more than originally forecast. the implementation process to integrate these various systems will involve a number of risks that could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 36 new systems will replace multiple legacy systems and the related implementation will be a complex and time-consuming project involving substantial expenditures for implementation consultants, system hardware, software and implementation activities, as well as the transformation of business and financial processes. as with any large project, there will be many factors that may materially affect the schedule, cost and execution of the integration of our computer, communications and other technology systems. these factors include, among others: problems during the design, implementation and testing phases; systems delays and/or malfunctions; the risk that suppliers and contractors will not perform as required under their contracts; the diversion of management attention from daily operations to the project; reworks due to unanticipated changes in business processes; challenges in simultaneously activating new systems throughout our global network; difficulty in training employees in the operations of new systems; the risk of security breach or disruption; and other unexpected events beyond our control. we cannot assure you that our security measures, change control procedures or disaster recovery plans will be adequate to prevent disruptions or delays. disruptions in or changes to these systems could result in a disruption to our business and the loss of important data. any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ongoing data security compliance requirements could increase our costs, and any significant data breach could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. our business requires the appropriate and secure utilization of customer and other sensitive information. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities (including cyber-attacks or cyber intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses and the like), discovery of new vulnerabilities or attempts to exploit existing vulnerabilities in our systems, other data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access and store sensitive information. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. furthermore, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security in the u.s. and abroad (particularly in the eu), including requirements for varying levels of customer notification in the event of a data breach. in addition, many of our commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed data security standards that we must meet. in particular, we are required by the payment card industry security standards council, founded by the credit card companies, to comply with their highest level of data security standards. while we continue our efforts to meet these standards, new and revised standards may be imposed that may be difficult for us to meet and could increase our costs. failure to comply with the payment card industry standards or other privacy and data use and security requirements of our partners or related laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject may expose us to claims for contract breach, fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, failure to address these issues appropriately could also give rise to additional legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur further related costs and expenses. we are at risk of losses and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving any of our aircraft or the aircraft of our regional or codeshare operators. if one of our aircraft, an aircraft that is operated under our brand by one of our regional operators or an aircraft that is operated by an airline with which we have a marketing alliance or codeshare relationship were to be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. the insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. in the event that our insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. in addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate, an aircraft that is operated under our brand by one of our regional operators or an aircraft that is operated by an airline that is one of our codeshare partners could create a public perception that our aircraft or those of our regional operators or codeshare partners are not safe or reliable, which could harm our reputation, result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft or those of our regional operators or codeshare partners and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. delays in scheduled aircraft deliveries or other loss of anticipated fleet capacity, and failure of new aircraft to perform as expected, may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. the success of our business depends on, among other things, the ability to operate an optimum number and type of aircraft. in many cases, the aircraft we intend to operate are not yet in our fleet, but we have contractual commitments to purchase or lease them. if for any reason we were unable to accept or secure deliveries of new aircraft on contractually scheduled delivery dates, this could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our failure to integrate newly purchased aircraft into our fleet as planned might require us to seek extensions of the terms for some leased aircraft or 37 otherwise delay the exit of certain aircraft from our fleet. such unanticipated extensions or delays may require us to operate existing aircraft beyond the point at which it is economically optimal to retire them, resulting in increased maintenance costs. if new aircraft orders are not filled on a timely basis, we could face higher operating costs than planned. in addition, if the aircraft we receive do not meet expected performance or quality standards, including with respect to fuel efficiency and reliability, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. we depend on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft, aircraft engines and parts. we depend on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft, aircraft engines and many aircraft and engine parts. as a result, we are vulnerable to any problems associated with the supply of those aircraft, parts and engines, including design defects, mechanical problems, contractual performance by the suppliers, or adverse perception by the public that would result in customer avoidance or in actions by the faa resulting in an inability to operate our aircraft. our business has been and will continue to be affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, including global events that affect travel behavior, and our results of operations could be volatile and fluctuate due to seasonality. our business, results of operations and financial condition has been and will continue to be affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, including, among others: • actual or potential changes in international, national, regional, and local economic, business and financial conditions, including recession, inflation, higher interest rates, wars, terrorist attacks, or political instability; • changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends; • changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, changes in airline alliance affiliations, and other factors; • actual or potential disruptions to the atc systems, including as a result of "sequestration" or any other interruption in government funding; • increases in costs of safety, security, and environmental measures; • outbreaks of diseases that affect travel behavior; and • weather and natural disasters. in particular, an outbreak of a contagious disease such as severe acute respiratory syndrome, h1n1 influenza virus, avian flu, or any other influenza-type illness, if it were to persist for an extended period, could materially affect the airline industry and us by reducing revenues and adversely impacting our operations and passengers’ travel behavior. as a result of these or other conditions beyond our control, our results of operations could be volatile and subject to rapid and unexpected change. in addition, due to generally weaker demand for air travel during the winter, our revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year could be weaker than revenues in the second and third quarters of the year. a higher than normal number of pilot retirements and a potential shortage of pilots could adversely affect us. we currently have a higher than normal number of pilots eligible for retirement. among other things, the extension of pilot careers facilitated by the faa’s 2007 modification of the mandatory retirement age from age 60 to age 65 has now been fully implemented, resulting in large numbers of pilots in the industry approaching the revised mandatory retirement age. if pilot retirements were to exceed normal levels in the future, it may adversely affect us. the faa also recently issued regulations that increase the flight experience required for pilots working for airlines certificated under part 121 of the federal aviation regulations. these and other factors could contribute to a shortage of qualified pilots, which could adversely affect us. increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact our operations and financial results. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers. accordingly, our insurance costs increased significantly, and our ability to continue to obtain insurance even at current prices remains uncertain. in addition, we have obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the faa, resulting in lower premiums than if we had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. the program has been extended, with the same conditions and premiums, until september 30, 2014. if the federal insurance program terminates, we would likely face a material increase in the cost of war risk insurance. the failure of one or more of our insurers could result in a lack of coverage for a period of time. additionally, severe disruptions in the domestic and global financial markets could adversely impact the claims paying ability of some insurers. future downgrades in the ratings of enough insurers could adversely impact both the availability of appropriate insurance coverage and its cost. because of competitive pressures in our industry, our ability to pass additional insurance costs to passengers is limited. as a result, further increases in insurance costs or reductions in available insurance coverage could have an adverse impact on our financial results. 38 several lawsuits were filed in connection with the merger and remain pending, and these lawsuits could have a material adverse impact on our business. us airways group, as well as the members of us airways group’s board of directors, were named as defendants in a lawsuit brought by a purported class of us airways group’s stockholders challenging the merger and seeking a declaration that the merger agreement is unenforceable, an injunction against the merger (or rescission in the event it has been consummated), imposition of a constructive trust, an award of fees and costs, including attorneys’ and experts’ fees, and other relief. us airways group, us airways, amr and american were also named as defendants in a private antitrust lawsuit. the complaint alleges that the effect of the merger may be to substantially lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly in violation of section 7 of the clayton antitrust act. the relief sought in the complaint includes an injunction against the merger, or divestiture. in january 2014, the complaint was amended to add a claim for money damages and to request injunctive relief requiring the carriers to hold separate their assets. such private lawsuits could result in an obligation to pay damages or terms, conditions, requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions that would impose additional material costs on or materially limit our revenues, or materially limit some of the synergies and other benefits we anticipate following the merger. see part i, item 3. legal proceedings - "merger class action" below. our ability to utilize our net operating loss (nol) carryforwards may be limited. under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the internal revenue code), a corporation is generally allowed a deduction in any taxable year for nols carried over from prior taxable years (nol carryforwards). as of december 31, 2013, we had available nol carryforwards of approximately $10.6 billion for regular federal income tax purposes which will expire, if unused, beginning in 1/1/2022, and approximately $4.7 billion for state income tax purposes which will expire, if unused, between 1/1/2014 and 12/31/2033. the amount of nol carryforwards for state income tax purposes that will expire, if unused, in 2014 is $106 million. our nol carryforwards are subject to adjustment on audit by the internal revenue service and the respective state taxing authorities. a corporation's ability to deduct its federal nol carryforwards and to utilize certain other available tax attributes can be substantially constrained under the general annual limitation rules of section 382 of the internal revenue code (section 382) if it undergoes an "ownership change" as defined in section 382 (generally where cumulative stock ownership changes among material shareholders exceed 50 percent during a rolling three-year period). we experienced an ownership change in connection with our emergence from bankruptcy and us airways group experienced an ownership change in connection with the merger. the general limitation rules for a debtor in a bankruptcy case are liberalized where the ownership change occurs upon emergence from bankruptcy. while we anticipate taking advantage of certain special rules for federal income tax purposes that would permit approximately $9.0 billion of our federal nol carryforwards to be utilized without regard to the annual limitation generally imposed by section 382, there can be no assurance that these special rules will apply to the ownership change we experienced upon our emergence from bankruptcy, including that we may ultimately elect not to apply them. if the special rules do not apply, our ability to utilize such federal nol carryforwards may be subject to limitation. substantially all of our remaining federal nol carryforwards (attributable to us airways group and its subsidiaries) are subject to limitation under section 382 as a result of the merger; however, our ability to utilize such nol carryforwards is not anticipated to be effectively constrained as a result of such limitation. similar limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. notwithstanding the foregoing, an ownership change subsequent to our emergence from bankruptcy may severely limit or effectively eliminate our ability to utilize our nol carryforwards and other tax attributes. to reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on our ability to utilize our nol carryforwards, our certificate of incorporation contains transfer restrictions applicable to certain substantial shareholders. although the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent an ownership change from occurring, no assurance can be given that such an ownership change will not occur, in which case our ability to utilize our nol carryforwards and other tax attributes could be severely limited or effectively eliminated. our ability to use our nol carryforwards also will depend on the amount of taxable income generated in future periods. the nol carryforwards may expire before we can generate sufficient taxable income to use them. the application of the acquisition method of accounting resulted in aag recording a significant amount of goodwill, which amount is tested for impairment at least annually. in addition, aag and american may never realize the full value of their respective intangible assets or long-lived assets, causing them to record material impairment charges. in accordance with applicable acquisition accounting rules, aag recorded goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet to the extent the us airways group acquisition purchase price exceeded the net fair value of us airway group’s tangible and intangible assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at least annually. also, in accordance with applicable accounting standards, aag and american will be required to test their respective indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have 39 occurred. in addition, aag and american are required to test certain of their other assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. future impairment of goodwill or other assets could be recorded in results of operations as a result of changes in assumptions, estimates, or circumstances, some of which are beyond our control. factors which could result in an impairment could include, but are not limited to: (i) reduced passenger demand as a result of domestic or global economic conditions; (ii) higher prices for jet fuel; (iii) lower fares or passenger yields as a result of increased competition or lower demand; (iv) a significant increase in future capital expenditure commitments; and (v) significant disruptions to our operations as a result of both internal and external events such as terrorist activities, actual or threatened war, labor actions by employees, or further industry regulation. there can be no assurance that a material impairment charge of goodwill or tangible or intangible assets will be avoided. the value of our aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by us or other airlines. an impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. risks relating to aag's common stock the price of our common stock has recently been and may in the future be volatile. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • aag's operating and financial results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • movements in fuel prices; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; • general and industry-specific economic conditions; • the success or failure of aag's integration efforts; • changes in our key personnel; • the conversion of aag series a preferred stock issued pursuant to aag's plan of reorganization; • distributions of shares of our common stock pursuant to our plan of reorganization, including upon the conversion of aal preferred stock and distributions from the disputed claims reserve established under the plan of reorganization upon the resolution of the underlying claims; • public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or issuances of our common stock upon the exercise or conversion of convertible securities, options, warrants, rsus, sars, or similar rights; • increases or decreases in reported holdings by insiders or other significant stockholders; • fluctuations in trading volume; and • changes in market values of airline companies as well as general market conditions. certain provisions of aag's certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws (the bylaws) make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of our stockholders might consider beneficial. certain provisions of aag's certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in our best interest and the best interest of our stockholders. these provisions include, among other things, the following: • advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; • the ability of our board of directors to fill vacancies on the board; • a prohibition against stockholders taking action by written consent; • a prohibition against stockholders calling special meetings of stockholders; • a requirement that holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors approve any amendment of our bylaws submitted to stockholders for approval; and • super-majority voting requirements to modify or amend specified provisions of our certificate of incorporation. these provisions are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of the interests of our stockholders. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable our board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts 40 to remove and replace incumbent directors. in addition, we are subject to the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prohibits business combinations with interested stockholders. interested stockholders do not include stockholders whose acquisition of our securities is approved by the board of directors prior to the investment under section 203. aag's certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that limit voting and acquisition and disposition of our equity interests. aag’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws include certain provisions that limit voting and ownership and disposition of our equity interests, including aag common stock, aag series a preferred stock and convertible notes. see part ii, item 5. market for registrant’s common stock and related stockholder matters - "ownership restrictions." these restrictions may adversely affect the ability of certain holders of our common stock and other equity interests to vote such interests and adversely affect the ability of persons to acquire shares of our common stock and other equity interests. in order to protect aag's nol carryforwards and certain other tax attributes, aag's certificate of incorporation includes certain limitations on acquisitions and dispositions of aag's common stock, which may limit the liquidity of our common stock. to reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on our ability to use our nol carryforwards and certain other tax attributes for federal income tax purposes, aag's certificate of incorporation contains certain restrictions on the acquisition and disposition of aag's common stock by substantial stockholders. these restrictions may adversely affect the ability of certain holders of aag's common stock to dispose of or acquire shares of aag's common stock. although the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent an "ownership change" (as defined in section 382 of the internal revenue code) from occurring, no assurance can be given that an ownership change will not occur even with these restrictions in place. see aag's restated certificate of incorporation which is filed as exhibit 3.1 hereto. 41 item 1b. unresolved