item 1a. risk factors this section highlights specific risks that could affect our company and its businesses. you should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. based on the information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company. however, the risks and uncertainties our company faces are not limited to those described below. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. these events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. current economic and political risks difficult conditions in the business and economic environment, as well as political conditions in the united states and elsewhere, may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. our results of operations are materially affected by economic and market conditions, both in the united states and elsewhere around the world. uncertain expectations for an economic recovery have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on us, in part because we are very dependent upon consumer and business behavior. a prolonged period of slow economic growth or deterioration in economic conditions could change customer behaviors further. if economic conditions were to persist or worsen, we could experience adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and other energy costs, the volatility and strength of the capital markets and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, our profitability. an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending is likely to materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, such factors may cause our earnings, credit metrics and margins to fluctuate and diverge from expectations of analysts and investors, who may have differing assumptions regarding their impact on our business, and may impact the trading price of our common shares. political or economic instability in certain regions or countries could also affect consumer spending and our lending activities, among other businesses, or result in restrictions on convertibility of certain currencies. in addition, our travel network may be adversely affected by world geopolitical and other conditions. travel expenditures are sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels and tend to decline during general economic downturns. we held approximately $4.0 billion of investment securities of state and municipal obligations as of december 31, 2013. in the event that actual default rates of these investment securities were to significantly change from historical patterns due to challenges in the economy or otherwise, it could have a material adverse impact on the value of our investment portfolio. while we do not have any material exposure to european sovereign debt as of december 31, 2013, economic disruptions in other countries, even in countries in which we do not conduct business or have operations, could adversely affect us. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. the global money and capital markets, while demonstrating generally improved conditions, remain susceptible to volatility and disruption, which could negatively impact market liquidity conditions.   78 table of contents we need liquidity to pay merchants, operating expenses, interest on debt and dividends on capital stock and to repay maturing liabilities. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to limit our investments in growth opportunities or curtail operations. the principal sources of our liquidity are payments from card members and merchants, cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash, direct and third-party sourced deposits, debt instruments such as unsecured medium- and long-term notes and asset securitizations, securitized borrowings through our secured financing facilities, the federal reserve discount window and long-term committed bank borrowing facilities. our ability to obtain financing in the debt capital markets for unsecured term debt and asset securitizations is dependent on investor demand. notwithstanding our solid financial position, we are not immune from pressures experienced broadly across the financial markets. the fragility of the credit markets and the current economic and regulatory environment have impacted financial services companies. although markets for unsecured term debt and asset securitizations have improved, there is no assurance that such markets will be open to us in the future. for example, concerns regarding u.s. debt and budget matters and sovereign debt and related austerity measures in europe have caused uncertainty in financial markets. the impact of the potential end to the federal reserve’s quantitative easing policy could also have an adverse impact on the capital markets generally. in the event that current sources of liquidity, including internal sources, do not satisfy our needs, we would be required to seek additional financing. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and consumer deposits, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, new regulatory restrictions and requirements, our credit ratings (which were downgraded in april 2009 by two of the major ratings agencies) and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders or depositors could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large credit losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to an economic downturn. see “an inability to accept or maintain deposits due to market demand or regulatory constraints could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business” below. while we have experienced positive credit trends since the latter half of 2009, if the performance of our charge and lending portfolios were to weaken through increasing delinquencies and write-offs, our long-term and short-term debt ratings could be downgraded and our access to capital could be materially adversely affected and our cost of capital could increase. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements and access the capital necessary to grow our business. as such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost to raise capital, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. market disruption and volatility could have an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for a further discussion of our liquidity and funding needs, see “financial review — funding programs and activities” on pages 38-40 of our 2013 annual report to shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. we can be adversely affected by the impairment of other financial institutions. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial services institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies. defaults or non-performance by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by one or more of our counterparties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   79 table of contents any reduction in our and our subsidiaries’ credit ratings could increase the cost of our funding from, and restrict our access to, the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. although our and our subsidiaries’ long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies, the ratings of that debt were downgraded during the second quarter of 2009 by moody’s investors services (“moody’s”) and standard & poor’s (“s&p”), two of the major rating agencies. the rating agencies regularly evaluate us and our subsidiaries, and their ratings of our and our subsidiaries’ long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally, and the wider state of the economy. there can be no assurance that our and our subsidiaries will maintain our current respective ratings. failure to maintain those ratings could, among other things, adversely limit our access to the capital markets and adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we and our subsidiaries are able to obtain funding. we cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take. as with other companies in the financial services industry, our and our subsidiaries’ ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any of the rating agencies. adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could decrease earnings we receive from our international operations and impact our capital. during 2013, approximately 28 percent of our total revenues net of interest expense were generated from activities outside the united states. we are exposed to foreign exchange risk from our international operations, and some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable and indeterminate fluctuations if the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of other currencies into u.s. dollars. the occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could decrease the u.s. dollar value of the revenues from our international operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. for the year ended december 31, 2013, foreign currency movements relative to the u.s. dollar negatively impacted our net revenues of $33.0 billion by approximately $0.3 billion. legal and regulatory risks ongoing legal proceedings regarding our non-discrimination and honor-all-cards provisions in merchant contracts could require changes to those provisions that could result in a material loss of revenue or increased expenses, substantial monetary judgments and/or damage to our global reputation and brand. the doj and certain states’ attorneys general have brought an action against us alleging that the provisions in our card acceptance agreements with merchants that prohibit merchants from discriminating against our card products at the point of sale violate the u.s. antitrust laws. visa and mastercard, which were also defendants in the doj and state action, entered into a settlement and have been dismissed as parties pursuant to that agreement, which was approved by the court. the settlement enjoins visa and mastercard from entering into contracts that prohibit merchants from engaging in various actions to steer cardholders to other card products or payment forms at the point of sale. in addition, we are a defendant in a number of actions, including proposed class actions filed by merchants that challenge the non-discrimination and honor-all-cards provisions in our card acceptance agreements. in december 2013, we agreed to settle these merchant class actions and the settlement agreement has been preliminarily approved by the court. there can be no assurance that the court will grant final approval of the settlement agreement, which can be impacted by objections to the settlement agreement by plaintiffs and other parties, as well as by the appeals process. a description of these legal proceedings is contained in “legal proceedings” below.   80 table of contents an adverse outcome in these proceedings against us could materially and adversely impact our profitability, require us to change our merchant agreements in a way that could expose our card products to increased steering, selective acceptance or other forms of discrimination at the point of sale that would impair our card members’ experience, could impose substantial monetary damages and/or could damage our global reputation and brand. even if we were not required to change our merchant agreements, changes in visa’s and mastercard’s policies or practices as a result of legal proceedings, lawsuit settlements or regulatory actions could result in changes to our business practices and materially and adversely impact our profitability. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act may continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. dodd-frank, as well as regulations promulgated thereunder, may continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition by, for example, requiring us to change our business practices, requiring us to comply with more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, imposing additional costs on us (including increased compliance costs and increased costs of funding raised through the issuance of asset-backed securities), limiting the fees we can charge for services, impacting the value of our assets, and increasing our collateral posting requirements on interest rate and currency swaps we enter. a description of certain provisions of dodd-frank and other legislative and regulatory developments is contained in “supervision and regulation” above. in particular, because the company and trs are large bank holding companies they will be subject to the restrictions discussed above under “financial holding company status and activities — heightened prudential requirements for large bank holding companies” under “supervision and regulation” above. dodd-frank has resulted in increased scrutiny and oversight of consumer financial services and products, primarily through the establishment of the cfpb. the cfpb has broad rulemaking and enforcement authority over providers of credit, savings and payment services and products and authority to prevent “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts or practices. the cfpb has the authority to write regulations under federal consumer financial protection laws, and to enforce those laws against and examine for compliance large financial institutions like the company, trs, centurion bank and aebfsb. it is also authorized to collect fines and require consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. our compliance with such regulations is likely to result in increased costs to the company and require additional attention from the company’s senior management. likewise, any failure to follow such regulations may result in restitution to card members or regulatory actions, including civil money penalties. in addition to increasing our compliance costs, cfpb oversight has resulted, and is likely to continue to result, in changes to practices, products and procedures and may potentially impair our ability to respond to marketplace changes. such changes could make our products and services less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably. such changes could also have an adverse effect on the company’s brand and reputation. see “litigation and regulatory actions could subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments and/or requirements resulting in increased expenses” below. many provisions of dodd-frank, including numerous provisions not described above, require the adoption of rules to implement. in addition, dodd-frank mandates multiple studies, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action. therefore, the ultimate consequences of dodd-frank and its implementing regulations on our business, results of operations and financial condition remain uncertain. our business is subject to significant and extensive government regulation and supervision, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. on november 14, 2008, american express company and trs each became bank holding companies under the bhc act and elected to be treated as financial holding companies under the bhc act. as a result of becoming a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation by the federal reserve, including, without   81 table of contents limitation, consolidated capital regulation at the holding company level, maintenance of certain capital and management standards in connection with our two u.s. depository institutions and restrictions on our non-banking activities, investments and acquisitions under the federal reserve’s regulations. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not for the protection of our shareholders or creditors. if we fail to satisfy regulatory requirements applicable to bank holding companies that have elected to be treated as financial holding companies, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may be restricted in our ability to take certain capital actions (such as declaring dividends or repurchasing outstanding shares) or engage in certain activities or acquisitions. additionally, our banking regulators have wide discretion in the examination and the enforcement of applicable banking statutes and regulations, and may restrict our ability to engage in certain activities or acquisitions, or may require us to maintain more capital. we are also subject to extensive government regulation and supervision in jurisdictions around the world, both as a participant in the financial services industry and otherwise. among other things, as a result of regulators enforcing existing laws and regulations, we could be fined, required to pay restitution, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subjected to limitations or conditions on our business activities or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees. regulatory action could cause significant damage to our global reputation and brand and any change to our business practices that makes our products and services less attractive to our customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. moreover, enforcement of laws in some overseas jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. as a result, the profitability of our operations outside the united states may be adversely affected. there is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses may be imposed, which could impact the profitability of our business activities, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, require us to change certain of our business practices or alter our relationships with customers, affect retention of our key personnel, or expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). such changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for example, the credit card accountability responsibility and disclosure act of 2009 required us to make fundamental changes to many of our business practices, including marketing, underwriting, pricing and billing. we have made changes to card product terms and practices that are designed to comply with, and mitigate the impact of the changes required by, the card act; however, there is no assurance that such changes will continue to be successful. in the event the card act constrains our ability to respond to economic, market and other conditions, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including our revenue and net income. in addition to proposed legislation affecting the financial services industry, our results of operations could be adversely impacted by other legislative action or inaction, including the failure of the u.s. congress to renew the active financing exception to subpart f of the internal revenue code, which could increase our effective tax rate and have an adverse impact on our net income. many of our competitors are subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legislative and regulatory regimes. the more restrictive laws and regulations applicable to u.s. financial institutions like us can put us at a competitive disadvantage to non-traditional players in the alternative payments space and non-u.s. competitors, including prohibiting us from engaging in certain transactions, making the pricing of our products and services more expensive or adversely affecting our cost structure. see “supervision and regulation” above for more information about the regulations to which we are subject.   82 table of contents litigation and regulatory actions could subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments and/or requirements resulting in increased expenses. businesses in the payments industry have historically been subject to significant legal actions and investigations alleging violations of competition/antitrust law, consumer protection law and intellectual property rights, among others. many of these actions have included claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages. we have also been subject to regulatory actions and may continue to be involved in such actions, including subpoenas, investigations and enforcement proceedings, in the event of noncompliance or alleged noncompliance with laws or regulations. the current environment of additional regulation, enhanced compliance efforts and increased regulatory investigations and enforcement is likely to continue to result in changes to practices, products and procedures, increased costs related to regulatory oversight, supervision and examination and additional restitution to card members. litigation and regulatory actions generally could subject us to significant fines, increased expenses, restrictions on our activities and damage to our global reputation and our brand, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to capital adequacy rules, and if we fail to meet these rules, our financial condition would be adversely affected. under regulatory capital adequacy rules and other regulatory requirements, the company, trs and our u.s. banking subsidiaries, centurion bank and aebfsb, must meet rules for capital adequacy and leverage ratios that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. failure by any of the company, trs or a u.s. subsidiary depository institution to maintain its respective status as “well capitalized” and “well managed,” if un-remedied over a period of time, could compromise our competitive position and could result in restrictions imposed by the federal reserve, including limiting our ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase our common stock or invest in our business. the capital requirements applicable to the company and trs as bank holding companies and our u.s. banking subsidiaries have recently been substantially revised to implement the international basel iii framework and are in the process of being phased-in. once these revisions are fully phased-in, the company, trs and our u.s. banking subsidiaries will be required to satisfy more stringent capital adequacy standards than in the past. we estimate that, had basel iii been fully phased-in during the fourth quarter of 2013, the company’s capital ratios under the u.s. basel capital iii rules would have exceeded the minimum requirements. this estimate could change in the future. as part of our required stress testing, both internally and by the federal reserve, we must continue to comply with applicable capital standards in the adverse and severely adverse economic scenarios published by the federal reserve each year. to satisfy these requirements, it may be necessary for us to hold additional capital in excess of that required by the new capital rules as they are phased-in. in addition to the new capital rules, there are several proposals or potential proposals that could significantly impact the regulatory capital standards and requirements applicable to financial institutions such as the company and our u.s. bank subsidiaries, as well as our ability to meet these requirements. the basel committee has adopted a framework for d-sibs that would impose a capital buffer on certain banks that have an important impact on their domestic economies. while the new capital rules did not address the adoption of a surcharge on d-sibs, federal banking regulators noted that they are considering a capital surcharge for institutions with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, or some subset of such institutions, consistent with the basel committee’s surcharge proposals. in addition, the basel committee has revised the exposure calculation methodology for the basel iii leverage ratio (known in the united states as the “supplementary leverage ratio”) that, if implemented by the federal banking regulators, would substantially increase the denominator of the supplementary leverage ratio — primarily with regard to exposures for derivatives and securities financing transactions — and could further increase the capital requirements applicable to us and our u.s. bank subsidiaries. accordingly, there continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding significant portions of the capital regime that will apply to us and our u.s. banking subsidiaries, and, as a result, the ultimate impact these capital requirements will have on our long-term capital planning and the results of our operations.   83 table of contents while we expect to meet the requirements of the new capital rules, inclusive of the capital conservation buffer, as phased-in by the federal reserve, these requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to lend, grow deposit balances, make acquisitions and make capital distributions in the form of increased dividends or share repurchases. higher capital levels could also lower our return on equity. failure to meet current or future capital requirements, including those imposed by the new capital rules or by regulators in implementing other portions of the basel iii framework, could materially adversely affect our financial condition. compliance with capital adequacy rules, including the new capital rules, will require a material investment of resources. although we have current estimates of risk weight calculations under the basel iii standardized approach, we cannot assure you that our current estimates will be correct and we may need to hold significantly more regulatory capital than we currently estimate in order to maintain a given capital ratio. an inability to meet regulatory expectations regarding our compliance with applicable capital adequacy rules may also negatively impact the assessment of the company, trs and its u.s. banking subsidiaries by federal banking regulators. for more information on capital adequacy requirements, see “financial holding company status and activities — capital adequacy” under “supervision and regulation” above. we are subject to restrictions that limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our capital stock. our subsidiaries are also subject to restrictions that limit their ability to pay dividends to us, which may adversely affect our liquidity. we are limited in our ability to pay dividends and repurchase capital stock by our regulators who have broad authority to prohibit any action that would be considered an unsafe or unsound banking practice. for example, it is the policy of the federal reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs, asset quality and financial condition. we are also subject to a requirement to submit capital plans that include, among other things, projected dividend payments and repurchases of capital stock, to the federal reserve for review. as part of the capital planning and stress testing process, our proposed capital actions are assessed against our ability to satisfy applicable capital requirements, including our ability to achieve basel iii capital ratio requirements under the new capital rules. if our capital plan is not approved for any reason or if we fail to satisfy applicable capital requirements, our ability to undertake capital actions may be restricted. american express company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for liquidity, and federal and state law limit the amount of dividends that our subsidiaries may pay to the parent company. in particular, our u.s. depository institution subsidiaries are subject to various statutory and regulatory limitations on their declaration and payment of dividends. the company’s liquidity could be reduced to the extent our subsidiaries are unable to declare and pay dividends to the company when necessary for the company to meet its obligations, and the company may be unable to make dividend payments on its outstanding capital stock, make principal and interest payments on its outstanding debt or make other payments on its outstanding obligations. for more information on bank holding company and depository institution dividend restrictions, see “supervision and regulation — financial holding company status and activities — dividends” above, as well as “consolidated capital resources and liquidity — share repurchases and dividends” on page 37 and note 23 on pages 100-101 of our 2013 annual report to shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.   84 table of contents banks, card issuers and card network operators generally are the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens and lead to decreased transaction volumes and revenues through our network. we are subject to regulations that affect banks and the payments industry in the united states and many other countries in which our charge and credit cards are used and where we conduct banking and card activities. in particular, we are subject to numerous regulations applicable to financial institutions in the united states and abroad. we are also subject to regulations as a provider of services to financial institutions. regulation of the payments industry has evolved and increased significantly. for example, we are subject to certain provisions of the bank secrecy act, as amended by the patriot act, with regard to maintaining effective aml programs. increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products and services we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our charge and credit cards may be used, and the types of customers and merchants who can obtain or accept our charge and credit cards. in addition, member states of the european economic area have implemented the payment services directive for electronic payment services that put in place a common legal framework for licensing and supervision of payment services providers, including card issuers and merchant acquirers, and for their conduct of business. the directive is now undergoing review and further changes, as yet to be defined, are anticipated. complying with these and other regulations increases our costs and can reduce our revenue opportunities. various regulatory agencies and legislatures are also considering regulations and legislation covering identity theft, account management guidelines, credit bureau reporting, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact us directly, in part due to increased scrutiny of our underwriting and account management standards. these new requirements may restrict our ability to issue charge and credit cards or partner with other financial institutions, which could decrease our transaction volumes. in some circumstances, new regulations and legislation could have the effect of limiting our ability to offer new types of charge or credit cards or restricting our ability to offer existing cards, such as stored-value cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenues and revenue growth. legislators and regulators around the world are aware of each other’s approaches to the regulation of the payments industry. consequently, a development in one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in another. in recent years, several countries outside the united states have focused on the fees involved in the operation of card networks, including interchange fees paid to card issuers in “four party” payment networks such as visa and mastercard and the fees merchants are charged to accept cards, as well as the terms and conditions of merchant acceptance contracts and rules. for example, certain countries in the european union (e.g., poland, hungary) have enacted local regulation on interchange fees. in mexico, the government has recently passed payment network laws that give the central bank and national banking commission, acting together, the power to issue rules about payment systems including interchange and other fees that, when promulgated, may impact our card businesses in that country. regulators in australia, brazil, canada, hungary, italy, mexico, new zealand, poland, switzerland, the united kingdom, venezuela and the european union, among others, have conducted investigations into, or initiated proceedings with respect to, interchange fees that are ongoing, concluded or on appeal. in some cases these investigations have led to changes in network practices, such as non-discrimination and honor-all-card provisions. the interchange fee, which is the collectively set fee paid by the merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in “four party” payment networks, is generally the largest component of the merchant service charge charged to merchants for debit and credit card acceptance in these systems. by contrast, the american express network does not have such interchange fees. for this reason, as well as the fact that visa and mastercard are the dominant card networks, the regulators’ focus has primarily been on these networks. however, antitrust actions and government regulation relating to merchant pricing could ultimately affect all networks. among other impacts, lower interchange and/or merchant discount revenue may lead card issuers to look for other sources of revenue such as higher annual card fees or interest charges, as well as to reduce costs by scaling back or eliminating rewards programs.   85 table of contents dodd-frank prohibits payment card networks from restricting merchants from offering discounts or incentives to encourage customers to pay with particular forms of payment such as cash, check, credit or debit cards, so long as offers to encourage credit or debit card payments do not discriminate on the basis of the network or issuer. further, to the extent required by federal law or applicable state law, the discount or incentive must be offered to all prospective buyers and must be clearly and conspicuously disclosed. dodd-frank also permits u.s. merchants to establish minimum purchase amounts of no more than $10 for credit card purchases, provided that the merchants do not discriminate between networks or issuers. federal government agencies and institutions of higher learning are also permitted to establish maximum amounts for credit card purchases provided they do not discriminate between networks or issuers. as a result of this law, customers may be incentivized by merchants to move away from the use of charge and credit card products to other forms of payment, such as debit, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. in addition, a number of bills have been proposed in individual u.s. state legislatures in recent years seeking to permit merchants to impose surcharges for the use of credit and debit cards; to impose caps on credit card interchange fees; to prohibit credit card companies from charging a merchant discount on the sales tax portion of credit card purchases; or to affect the transparency of card network rules for merchants. in europe, some countries such as italy and poland have proposed or adopted regulation of interchange or merchant fees. in january 2012, the ec published a green paper (a document to begin a process of consultation toward potential regulation) covering a range of issues affecting the payments industry. the ec has completed a consultation period and issued its preliminary conclusions in the form of proposed legislation on july 24, 2013 (the “eu payments package”). among other things, the proposed eu payments package addresses interchange fees, anti-steering and honor-all-cards rules, surcharging, separation of processing from card network management, access rights to payment systems, perceived barriers to cross-border acquiring, mobile payments and technical standardization. for a description of certain of the proposals and their potential impacts on us, see “global network & merchant services — regulation” above. we cannot predict the final form, or effects on us, of this proposed legislation. these and other potential or proposed legislative and regulatory changes could negatively impact the discount revenue derived from our business in the eu as a result of downward pressure on the discount rate from anticipated decreases in competitor pricing in connection with the proposed caps on interchange fees. we may also be required to change certain of our business practices, including contractual provisions relating to card acceptance by merchants, or alter our business relationships in the eu, including arrangements with gns partners. if the scope of permissible surcharging or steering is expanded, there could be an adverse impact on our cards-in-force, transaction volumes, discount revenue or other parameters impacting financial performance. see “an increasing prevalence of surcharging by merchants could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations” below. the proposed legislation also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may increase our compliance costs or result in a reduction of transactions processed on our networks or merchant discount revenues from such transactions, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. if we are not able to protect our intellectual property, and invest successfully in, and compete at the leading edge of, technological developments across all our businesses, our revenue and profitability could be negatively affected. our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes. in order to compete in our industry, we need to continue to invest in business process and technology advances across all areas of our business, including in transaction processing, data management and analysis, customer interactions and communications, travel reservations systems, prepaid products, alternative payment mechanisms and risk management and compliance systems. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new technologies may be superior to, or render   86 table of contents obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our cards, networks and other services. because of evolving payments technologies and the competitive landscape, we may not, among other things, be successful in increasing or maintaining our share of online spending and enhancing our card members’ digital experience, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. we also expect increased regulatory and legal scrutiny and requirements with respect to data privacy and protection in connection with these new technologies. our ability to develop, acquire or access competitive technologies or business processes on acceptable terms may be limited by patent rights that third parties, including competitors and potential competitors, may assert. in addition, our ability to adopt new technologies may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards, by resistance to change from card members or merchants, by the complexity of our systems or by intellectual property rights of third parties. we rely on a variety of measures to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, including copyrights, trademarks, patents and controls on access and distribution. these measures may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary information and a resulting loss of competitive advantage. in addition, competitors or other third parties may allege that our systems, processes or technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights. given the complex, rapidly changing and competitive technological and business environment in which we operate, and the potential risks and uncertainties of intellectual property-related litigation, a future assertion of an infringement claim against us could cause us to lose significant revenues, incur significant license, royalty or technology development expenses, or pay significant monetary damages. regulation in the areas of privacy, information security and data protection could increase our costs and affect or limit how we collect and/or use personal information and our business opportunities. we are subject to various applicable privacy, information security and data protection laws, including requirements concerning security breach notification, and we could be negatively impacted by them. for example, in the united states, certain of our businesses may be subject to the gramm-leach-bliley act and implementing regulations and guidance. among other things, the glba imposes certain limitations on the ability of financial institutions to share consumers’ nonpublic personal information with nonaffiliated third parties; requires that financial institutions provide certain disclosures to consumers about their data collection, sharing and security practices and affords customers the right to “opt out” of the institution’s disclosure of their personal financial information to nonaffiliated third parties (with limited exceptions); and requires financial institutions to develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution’s activities, and the sensitivity of customer information processed by the financial institution. for more information on the glba and various state laws, see “privacy and data protection” under “supervision and regulation” above. in the european union, the european data protection directive, which obligates the controller and/or processor of an individual’s personal data to, among other things, take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data, has been implemented through local laws in member states. as these laws are interpreted throughout the european union, compliance costs are increasing, particularly in the context of ensuring that adequate data protection and data transfer mechanisms are in place. the european commission proposed in january 2012 a new regulation to replace the current data protection directive that, among other things, would tighten data protection requirements and make enforcement more rigorous, for example, by streamlining enforcement at a european level, introducing data breach notification requirements and increasing penalties for non-compliance. this proposed regulation follows the implementation of the european union’s e-privacy directive, which imposes consent requirements on the use of “cookies” for certain purposes such as online behavioral advertisement. various u.s. federal banking regulators, states and foreign jurisdictions have enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory and/or law enforcement   87 table of contents notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach. many of these requirements also apply broadly to merchants that accept our cards and our business partners. in many countries that have yet to impose data security breach notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the threat of significant sanctions and penalties by data protection authorities to encourage voluntary notification. in addition, legislators and/or regulators in the united states and other countries in which we operate are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, information security and data protection laws that potentially could have significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices, our collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer and/or employee information, and some of our current or planned business activities. for example, the u.s. house of representatives and senate considered a number of privacy, security breach notification, cybersecurity and information-security related bills during the 113th congress and various committee hearings were held on related subjects. there also continues to be legislative activity in these areas at the state level. new legislation or regulation could increase our costs of compliance and business operations and could reduce revenues from certain business initiatives. moreover, the application of existing laws to technology developments can be uncertain, increasing compliance risk. compliance with current or future privacy, data protection and information security laws to which we are subject affecting customer and/or employee data could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict our ability to fully exploit our closed-loop capability or provide certain products and services, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. our failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws could result in potentially significant regulatory and/or governmental investigations and/or actions, litigation, fines, sanctions and damage to our global reputation and our brand. in recent years, there has been increasing enforcement activity in the areas of privacy, data protection and information security in various countries in which we operate. our success is dependent, in part, upon our executive officers and other key personnel, and the loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business. our success depends, in part, on our executive officers and other key personnel. our senior management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. our senior management team is relatively small and we believe we are in a critical period of competition in the financial services and payments industry. the market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. as further described in “supervision and regulation — compensation practices” above, our compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by the federal reserve and the compensation practices of our u.s. depository institution subsidiaries are subject to review and oversight by the fdic and the occ. as a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices, which may or may not affect our competitors, by the federal reserve, the fdic or other regulators worldwide. these limitations, including limitations on any incentive compensation policies pursuant to dodd-frank, could further affect our ability to attract and retain our executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business. tax and abandoned property legislative initiatives or assessments by governmental authorities could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we operate in jurisdictions throughout the world. as such, we remit a variety of taxes and fees to various governmental authorities, including u.s. federal, state and local governments and various foreign jurisdictions. the taxes and fees remitted by us are subject to review and audit by the applicable governmental authorities, which could result in liability for additional assessments. in addition, we are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property (escheat) laws that require us to turn over to certain governmental authorities the property of others held by us (such as uncashed stored-value products like travelers cheques and other prepaid products) that has been   88 table of contents unclaimed for a specified period of time. the laws and regulations related to tax and unclaimed property matters are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although management believes our positions are reasonable, various authorities may challenge our positions or apply existing laws and regulations more broadly, which may potentially result in a significant increase in liabilities for taxes, unclaimed property and interest in excess of accrued liabilities. legislative initiatives may be proposed from time to time, such as proposals for fundamental tax reform in the united states or multi-jurisdictional actions to address “base erosion and profit shifting” by multinational companies, which may impact our effective tax rate and could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities. legislation has been proposed, and in some states enacted, to establish shorter escheatment periods for travelers checks and/or prepaid cards, often with retroactive application. we have challenged, and intend to continue to challenge, what we believe are significant defects in these laws, which can have a significant impact on our travelers cheques and prepaid cards business in the states in which they are enacted, as well as increase the estimated liability recorded in our financial statements with respect to uncashed stored-value products. business risks our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the payments industry. the payments industry is highly competitive and includes charge, credit and debit card networks and issuers, paper-based transactions (e.g., cash and checks), bank transfer models (e.g., wire transfers and ach), as well as evolving alternative payment mechanisms, systems and products, such as aggregators and web-based payment platforms (e.g., paypal, square and amazon), wireless payment technologies (including using mobile telephone networks to carry out transactions), prepaid systems and other systems linked to payment cards. we are the fourth largest general-purpose card network on a global basis based on purchase volume, behind visa, mastercard and china unionpay. we believe visa and mastercard are larger than we are in most countries. as a result, competitive card issuers and acquirers on the visa and mastercard networks may be able to benefit from the dominant position, resources, marketing and pricing of visa and mastercard. because of consolidations among banking and financial services companies and credit card portfolio acquisitions by major card issuers, there are now a smaller number of significant issuers. continuing consolidation in the banking industry may result in a financial institution with a strong relationship with us being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a competitor, resulting in a potential loss of business for us. the largest competing issuers have continued to grow, in several cases by acquiring card portfolios, and also by cross-selling through their retail branch networks, and competition among all issuers remains intense. we are also subject to increasing pricing pressure from our competitors. in addition, some of our competitors have developed, or may develop, substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, including larger cash reserves, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition, co-brand card programs or merchant acceptance than we have. we may not continue to be able to compete effectively against these threats or respond or adapt to changes in consumer spending habits as effectively as our competitors. our competitors may also be more efficient in introducing innovative products, programs and services on different platforms than we are. spending on our charge, credit and prepaid cards and accounts could continue to be impacted by increasing consumer usage of debit cards issued on competitive networks. internationally, competition remains fierce, and as a result, we may not be successful in accelerating our growth outside of the united states through proprietary consumer, small business and corporate products, gns partners and alternative payment vehicles such as prepaid services.   89 table of contents new technologies, including continuing advancements in the areas of proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards) and remote payment technologies (such as cloud based accounts), and evolving consumer behavior are rapidly changing the way people interact with each other and transact business all around the world. in this connection, traditional and non-traditional competitors such as mobile, technology and telecommunications companies and aggregators are working to deliver digital and mobile payment services for both consumers and merchants. our competitors may be able to innovate faster than we can, and new technologies may further increase the competitive pressures by enabling our competitors to offer more efficient or lower-cost services. our success will depend in part on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. if we are unable to continue to keep pace with innovation, manage the shift to mobile, device-based and multi-channel commerce or improve the quality of the card member experience, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. in the united states, alternative payment vehicles that seek to redirect customers to payment systems based on ach continue to emerge and grow, and existing debit networks also continue to expand both on- and off-line and are making efforts to develop online pin functionality, which could further reduce the relative use of charge and credit cards online. to the extent alternative payment mechanisms, systems and products continue to successfully expand in the online and mobile payments space, our discount revenues and our ability to access transaction data through our closed-loop network could be negatively impacted. our enterprise growth group focuses on this strategic challenge by leveraging its serve software platform to develop low-cost and more efficient alternatives to traditional banking, payment and prepaid services. the long-term goal is to generate alternative sources of revenue globally in areas such as alternative mobile and online payments, fee-based services and emerging technologies that help new and existing customer segments move and manage their money. while expanding the enterprise growth group is a top priority for us, many of the growth initiatives will involve new areas for us and we may not be successful in executing our strategy. our failure to expand enterprise growth and drive adoption of new products and services, including new technology and payment options such as prepaid products and services that we offer, would negatively impact our future growth. our products, including those offered by our enterprise growth group, compete with a wide variety of financial payment products including cash, foreign and digital currencies, checks, other brands of travelers checks, debit, prepaid and atm cards, store branded gift cards, other network branded cards and other payment cards. these payment products are subject to intense and increasing competition. we also compete with companies that market open-loop prepaid debit cards through retail and online distribution, banks and other providers that offer demand deposit and savings accounts, other issuers of debit cards, check cashers, money order services, and large retailers or retailer coalitions who are seeking to integrate more financial services into their product offerings. we anticipate increased competition from traditional and alternative financial services providers that are often well-positioned to service customers, including those previously excluded or poorly served by the traditional financial system, and that may wish to develop their own prepaid card programs. the increased desire of banks, retailers and alternative financial services providers to develop and promote prepaid card programs could have an adverse effect on our prepaid offerings, such as american express serve. to the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we may face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with relevant customers, regulators and industry participants, which could adversely affect our ability to compete. in addition, companies that control access to consumer and merchant payment method preferences through digital wallets, mobile applications or at the point-of-sale could choose not to accept or could suppress use of our products or could restrict our access to our customers and transaction data. laws and business practices that favor local competitors, require card transactions to be routed over domestic networks or prohibit or limit foreign ownership of certain businesses could slow our growth in international regions. further, expanding our service offerings, adding customer acquisition channels and forming new partnerships could have higher cost structures than our current arrangements, adversely impact our average discount rate or dilute our brand.   90 table of contents regulators have recently put forward various proposals that may impact our businesses, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions, and proposals to impose taxes or fees on certain financial institutions. these or similar proposals, which may not apply to all of our competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. we face increasingly intense competitive pressure that may impact the prices we charge merchants that accept our cards for payment for goods and services. unlike our competitors in the payments industry that rely on high revolving credit balances to drive profits, our business model is focused on card member spending. discount revenue, which represents fees charged to merchants when card members use their cards to purchase goods and services on our network, is primarily driven by billed business volumes and is our largest single revenue source. in recent years, we have been under market pressure, including pressure created by regulatory-mandated reductions to competitors’ pricing, to reduce merchant discount rates and undertake other repricing initiatives. in addition, differentiated payment models from non-traditional players in the alternative payments space and the regulatory and litigation environment could pose challenges to our traditional payment model and adversely impact our average discount rate. some merchants also continue to invest in their own payment solutions, using both traditional and new technology platforms. if merchants are able to drive broad consumer adoption and usage, it could adversely impact our merchant discount rate and billed business volumes. a continuing priority of ours is to drive greater value to our merchants, which, if not successful, could negatively impact our discount revenue and financial results. if we continue to experience a decline in the average merchant discount rate, we will need to find ways to offset the financial impact by increasing billed business volumes, increasing other sources of revenue, such as fee-based revenue or interest income, or both. we may not succeed in sustaining merchant discount rates or offsetting the impact of declining merchant discount rates, particularly in the current regulatory environment, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability, and therefore our ability to invest in innovation and in value-added services to merchants and card members. an increasing prevalence of surcharging by merchants could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. in certain countries, such as australia and certain member states in the european union, merchants are permitted by law to surcharge card purchases. the number of countries in the eu that permit surcharging could increase as the european parliament and the european council consider recommendations by the european commission to change surcharging laws, as discussed in “global network & merchant services — regulation” above. we cannot predict the final form, or effects on us, of this proposed legislation. in australia, we have seen selective, but increasing, merchant surcharging on american express cards in certain merchant categories and, in some cases, on a basis that is greater than that applied to cards issued on the bankcard networks, which is known as differential surcharging. new rules issued by the reserve bank of australia that took effect in 2013 allow us and other payment networks to prohibit merchants from surcharging by more than their reasonable costs of accepting a particular payment card. this could lead to an increase in the number of merchants that differentially surcharge american express cards. the settlement by mastercard and visa of a merchant class litigation required, among other things, mastercard and visa to permit u.s. merchants to surcharge mastercard and visa credit card transactions under certain terms and subject to certain conditions, while permitting the networks to continue to prohibit surcharges on debit card transactions. mastercard and visa’s revised network rules that went into effect in january 2013 prohibit merchants that also accept american express cards from implementing surcharges of mastercard and/or visa credit card transactions unless they also surcharge american express transactions in a manner that would violate the non-discrimination provisions generally agreed to by most merchants that accept cards on the american express network (i.e., by surcharging american express transactions but not surcharging mastercard   91 table of contents and visa debit card transactions). this may encourage merchants that currently accept american express cards to either violate their card acceptance agreements with american express or to discontinue acceptance of american express cards. if this occurs, it could materially and adversely affect american express merchant coverage and charge volumes. in december 2013, we announced the proposed settlement of u.s. merchant class action lawsuits under which we would change our u.s. card acceptance agreement provisions to permit merchants to surcharge american express charge and credit card transactions no more than the surcharge on other charge and credit cards or other forms of payment the merchant accepts (other than cash, checks, debit cards or inter-bank transfers). while we continue to believe surcharging is not a customer-friendly practice, this proposed settlement provides merchants with additional flexibility to surcharge american express charge and credit cards on an equal basis with other charge and credit cards, even if the merchant does not surcharge debit cards. we will not be required to put these contract changes into effect any sooner than the date that the settlement agreement receives final approval, including any appeal period. if the settlement receives final approval, these contract changes, combined with u.s. merchants’ options under dodd-frank to offer discounts or incentives to induce payment by debit cards could shift spending from american express charge and credit cards to debit cards. for more detail on the proposed settlement, see “legal proceedings” below. if surcharging becomes widespread, american express cards and credit and charge cards generally could become less desirable to consumers, which could result in a decrease in cards-in-force and transaction volumes. the impact could vary depending on the manner in which a surcharge is levied and whether surcharges are levied upon all payment cards, whether debit cards are excluded, or whether the amount of the surcharge varies depending on the card, network, acquirer or issuer. surcharging could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly to the extent surcharging disproportionately impacts american express card members. we may not be successful in our efforts to promote card usage through our marketing, promotion and rewards programs, or to effectively control the costs of such programs, both of which may impact our profitability. our business is characterized by the high level of spending by our card members. increasing consumer and business spending on our payment services products, particularly credit and charge cards and prepaid products, and growth in card lending balances, depend in part on our ability to develop and issue new or enhanced card and prepaid products and increase revenues from such products. one of the ways in which we attract new card members, reduce card member attrition and seek to retain or capture a greater share of customers’ total spending is through our membership rewards program, as well as other card member benefits. we may not be able to cost-effectively manage and expand card member benefits, including containing the growth of marketing, promotion and rewards expenses and card member services expenses. our prospects for growth also depend on our ability to innovate by offering new, and adding value to our existing, payment services products. if customers do not perceive our new offerings as providing significant value, they may fail to accept our new products and services, which would negatively impact our operating revenues. in addition, many credit card issuers have instituted rewards and co-brand programs that are similar to ours, and issuers may in the future institute programs and services that are more attractive than ours. if we continue to increase our investments in marketing, promotion and rewards programs, we will need to find ways to offset the financial impact by increasing payments volume, the amount of fee-based services we provide or both. we may not succeed in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. our brand and reputation are key assets of our company, and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. our brand and its attributes are key assets of the company, and we believe our continued success depends on our ability to preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brand. our ability to attract and retain consumer and small business card members and corporate clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our   92 table of contents level of service, trustworthiness, business practices, merchant acceptance, financial condition and other subjective qualities. negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters — even if related to seemingly isolated incidents — could erode trust and confidence and damage our reputation among existing and potential card members and corporate clients, which could make it difficult for us to attract new card members and customers and maintain existing ones. negative public opinion could also result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities or circumstances, including card practices, regulatory compliance and the use and protection of customer information, and from actions taken by regulators or others in response to such conduct. social media channels can also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brand. our brand and reputation may also be harmed by actions taken by third parties that are outside our control. for example, any shortcoming of a third-party vendor or gns partner that issues cards or acquires merchants on the american express network may be attributed by card members and merchants to us, thus damaging our reputation and brand value. the lack of acceptance or suppression of card usage by merchants can also negatively impact perceptions of our brand and our products, lower overall transaction volume and increase the attractiveness of other payments systems. adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. furthermore, as a corporation with headquarters and operations located in the united states, a negative perception of the united states arising from its political or other positions could harm the perception of our company and our brand. although we monitor developments for areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. if we cannot successfully execute on our strategy, our business and financial results may be adversely impacted. we may not be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. these strategic initiatives are designed to improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include:     •   increasing plastic penetration, including by growing our share of premium and small business spend and b2b payments     •   continuing to expand internationally through proprietary and gns offerings     •   expanding our presence in the digital payments space, including online and mobile channels     •   growing our loyalty coalition business, loyalty partner, and our newer payment products, including serve and bluebird the process of developing new products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. we also continue to pursue a disciplined expense-management strategy, including reengineering operations. however, there is no guarantee that we will be able to control the growth of expenses in the future, particularly as expenses incurred in our foreign entities are subject to foreign exchange volatility and regulatory compliance and legal and related costs are difficult to predict or control, particularly given the current regulatory and litigation environment. moreover, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs of investing in our businesses. these investments may not be as productive as we expect or at all. we may not be successful in realizing the benefits associated with our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and investment activity, and our business and reputation could be negatively impacted. we have recently acquired a number of businesses, including our acquisitions of serve, accertify and loyalty partner, and made a number of strategic investments. we may also evaluate other potential transactions. these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. there is no assurance   93 table of contents that we will be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, value potential investment or acquisition opportunities accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those opportunities, and complete proposed acquisitions and investments. our failure to successfully integrate acquired companies, businesses or technologies into our existing operations could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or investment, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. as discussed in “global business travel” under “global commercial services” above, we announced plans to create a new joint venture for our gbt operations. the transaction remains subject to the execution of definitive agreements and receipt of regulatory and other approvals. there can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate the transaction. if we are able to close the transaction, the joint venture may not be able to realize the underlying assumptions related to the transaction, including accelerating the transformation and growth of the corporate travel business, creating additional investment capacity and enhancing its suite of products and services. following and continuing after the consummation of the transaction, we and the joint venture face the potential loss of key customers, vendors and other key business partners. our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with the joint venture transaction could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such transaction, incur unanticipated liabilities and adversely affect our operations. joint ventures and minority investments inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational and/or compliance risks associated with the joint venture or minority investment. in addition, we may be dependent on joint venture partners, controlling shareholders or management who may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours. business decisions or other actions or omissions of the joint venture partner, controlling shareholders or management may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us and otherwise damage our reputation and brand. a significant disruption or breach in the security of our information technology systems or an increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brand and significant legal, regulatory and financial exposure and could reduce the use and acceptance of our charge and credit cards. we and other third parties process, transmit and store account information in connection with our charge and credit cards and prepaid products, and in the normal course of our business, we collect, analyze and retain significant volumes of certain types of personally identifiable and other information pertaining to our customers and employees. information security risks for large financial institutions like us have generally increased in recent years. we have identified four categories of “threat actors” that we currently believe pose the greatest risk, namely cyber criminals, nation state sponsored groups, determined insiders and “hacktivists” or social objectors. these threat actors are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture various types of information relating to card members’ accounts, including membership rewards accounts, to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft, to disrupt information technology systems, and to expose and exploit potential security and privacy vulnerabilities in corporate systems and websites. as outsourcing and specialization of functions within the payments industry increase, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards and there is a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties, including merchants that accept our cards and our business partners, may be compromised. we develop and maintain systems and processes to detect and prevent data breaches and fraudulent activity, but the development and maintenance of these systems are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies and regulatory requirements change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. despite our efforts, the possibility of data breaches, malicious social engineering and fraudulent or other malicious activities cannot be eliminated entirely, and risks associated with each of these remain, including the unauthorized disclosure, release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information (including account data information).   94 table of contents our information technology systems, including our transaction authorization, clearing and settlement systems, may experience service disruptions or degradation because of technology malfunction, sudden increases in customer transaction volume, natural disasters, accidents, power outages, telecommunications failures, fraud, denial-of-service and other cyber attacks, terrorism, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events. for example, we and other u.s. financial services providers were targeted recently with distributed denial-of-service attacks from sophisticated third parties. service disruptions could prevent access to our online services and account information, compromise company or customer data, and impede transaction processing and financial reporting. inadequate infrastructure in lesser developed countries could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those countries. if our information technology systems experience a significant disruption or breach or if actual or perceived fraud levels or other illegal activities involving our cards were to rise due to the actions of third parties, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, it could lead to regulatory intervention (such as mandatory card reissuance), increased litigation and remediation costs, greater concerns of customers and/or business partners relating to the privacy and security of their data, and reputational and financial damage to our brand, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards, and have a material adverse impact on our business. data breaches and other actual or perceived failures to maintain confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data may also negatively impact the assessment of the company, trs and its u.s. banking subsidiaries by banking regulators. we have agreements with business partners in a variety of industries, including the airline industry, that represent a significant portion of our business. we are exposed to risks associated with these industries, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings, consolidations and alliances of our partners, and the possible obligation to make payments to our partners. in the ordinary course of our business we enter into different types of contractual arrangements with business partners in a variety of industries. for example, we have partnered with costco and delta air lines to offer co-branded cards for consumers and small businesses, and through our membership rewards program we have partnered with businesses in many industries, including the airline industry, to offer benefits to card member participants. competition for relationships with key business partners is very intense and there can be no assurance we will be able to grow or maintain these partner relationships. we face the risk that we could lose partner relationships, even after we have invested significant resources, time and expense in acquiring and developing the relationships. the loss of any of our business partners could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations, including as a result of card member attrition or additional costs we incur to retain card members. we may be obligated to make or accelerate payments to certain business partners such as co-brand partners and merchants upon the occurrence of certain triggering events such as: (i) our filing for bankruptcy, (ii) our economic condition deteriorating such that our senior unsecured debt rating is downgraded significantly below investment grade by s&p and moody’s, (iii) our ceasing to have a public debt rating, or (iv) a shortfall in certain performance levels. if we are not able to effectively manage the triggering events, we could unexpectedly have to make payments to these partners, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. similarly, we have credit risk to certain co-brand partners relating to our prepayments for loyalty program points that may not be fully redeemed. we are also exposed to risk from bankruptcies, liquidations, insolvencies, financial distress, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events that may occur in any industry representing a significant portion of our billed business, which could negatively impact particular card products and services (and billed business generally) and our financial condition and results of operations. for example, we could be materially impacted if we were obligated to or elected to reimburse card members for products and services purchased from merchants that have ceased operations or stopped accepting our cards. the airline industry represents a significant portion of our billed business and in recent years has undergone bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events. the airline industry accounted for approximately 9 percent of our worldwide billed business for the year ended december 31, 2013.   95 table of contents there continues to be significant consolidation in the airline industry, particularly in the united states (e.g., american/us airways and united airlines/continental airlines), through mergers and/or grants of antitrust immunity to airline alliances and joint ventures, and this trend could continue. in particular, the united states department of transportation has granted antitrust immunity to members of the skyteam, star and oneworld alliances, enabling the covered airlines to closely coordinate their cross-regional operations and to launch highly integrated joint ventures in transatlantic and other markets, including jointly pricing and managing capacity on covered routes, sharing revenues and costs, and coordinating sales and corporate contracts, all outside the scope of the u.s. antitrust laws. the ec has similarly approved the star and oneworld alliances, and its review of the skyteam alliance and cooperation between its members is continuing. increasing consolidation and expanded antitrust immunity could create challenges for our relationships with the airlines including reducing our profitability on our airline business. airlines are also some of the most important and valuable partners in our membership rewards program. if a participating airline merged with an airline that did not participate in membership rewards, the combined airline would have to determine whether or not to continue participation. similarly, if one of our co-brand airline partners merged with an airline that had a competing co-brand card, the combined airline would have to determine which co-brand cards it would offer. our largest airline co-brand loan portfolio, american express’ delta skymiles credit card, accounted for less than 15 percent of worldwide card member loans as of december 31, 2013. if an airline determined to withdraw from membership rewards or to cease offering an american express co-brand card, whether as the result of a merger or otherwise, such as the withdrawal of continental airlines in 2011 from our airport club access program for centurion and platinum card members and our membership rewards points transfer program or the withdrawal of american airlines in 2014 from our airport club access program for centurion and platinum card members, our business could be adversely affected. for additional information relating to the general risks related to the airline industry, see “risk management — exposure to the airline industry” on page 44 of our 2013 annual report to shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference. our reengineering and other cost control initiatives may not prove successful, and we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we intended. many factors can influence the amount of our expenses, as well as how quickly they may increase. our ongoing investments, which may be necessary to maintain a competitive business, may increase our expenses. we have regularly undertaken, and are currently undertaking, a variety of efforts to reengineer our business operations in order to achieve cost savings and other benefits (including the reinvestment of such savings in key areas such as marketing, promotion, rewards and infrastructure), enhance revenue-generating opportunities and improve our operating expense to revenue ratio both in the short-term and over time. these efforts include cost management, structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities and operations consolidation, outsourcing functions (including, among others, technologies operations), relocating certain functions to lower-cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the internet and mobile channels to save costs and planned staff reductions relating to certain of these reengineering actions. if we do not successfully achieve these efforts in a timely manner or if we are not able to capitalize on these efforts, or if the actions taken ultimately come at the expense of operational efficiency, we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we intended. failure to achieve these benefits or successfully manage our expenses could have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to achieve our previously announced financial targets. our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective. our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. we have established policies and procedures intended to identify, monitor and manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, market risk, asset liability risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, compliance risk and   96 table of contents reputational risk. see “risk management” on pages 43-46 of our 2013 annual report to shareholders for a discussion of the policies and procedures we use to identify, monitor and manage the risks we assume in conducting our businesses. although we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future, these policies and procedures, as well as our risk management techniques such as our hedging strategies, may not be fully effective. in addition, as regulations and markets in which we operate continue to evolve, our risk management framework may not always keep sufficient pace with those changes. if our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. management of our risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. if the models we use to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur increased losses. in addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. we must effectively manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans, settlement with gns partners, merchant and consumer bankruptcies, delinquencies and other credit trends that can affect spending on card products, debt payments by individual and corporate customers and businesses that accept our card products. credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. we are exposed to both individual credit risk, principally from consumer and small business card member receivables and loans, and institutional credit risk from merchants, gns partners, gcp clients and treasury and investment counterparties. third parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. country, regional and political risks can contribute to credit risk. our ability to assess creditworthiness may be impaired if the criteria or models we use to manage our credit risk become less predictive of future losses, which could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations. rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy are often precursors of future write-offs and may require us to increase our reserve for loan losses. although delinquencies and charge-offs declined in 2013, we believe we are experiencing historical lows in these rates and they are likely to increase. in addition, if economic conditions do not improve, these rates may increase more than expected. higher write-off rates and an increase in our reserve for loan losses adversely affect our profitability and the performance of our securitizations, and may increase our cost of funds. in addition, our ability to recover amounts that we have previously written off may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our revenues. although we make estimates to provide for credit losses in our outstanding portfolio of loans and receivables, these estimates may not be accurate. in addition, the information we use in managing our credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete. although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to foresee or detect, such as fraud. we may also fail to receive full information with respect to the credit risks of our customers. increased credit risk, whether resulting from underestimating the credit losses inherent in our portfolio of loans and receivables, deteriorating economic conditions, changes in our mix of business or otherwise, could require us to increase our provision for losses and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we must also effectively manage market risk to which we are exposed. market risk represents the loss in value of portfolios and financial instruments due to adverse changes in market variables. we are exposed to market risk from interest rates in our card business and in our investment portfolios. changes in the interest rates at which we borrow and lend money affect the value of our assets and liabilities. if the rate of interest we pay on our borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans, our net interest yield, and consequently our net income, could fall. we must also accurately estimate the fair value of certain of our assets and our liabilities and, in particular, those investments that are not readily marketable, including our investment portfolio and derivative instruments.   97 table of contents additionally, we must effectively manage liquidity risk to which we are exposed. liquidity risk is defined as the inability to access cash and equivalents needed to meet business requirements and satisfy our obligations. if we are unsuccessful in managing our liquidity risk, we may maintain too much liquidity, which can be costly and limit financial flexibility; or we may be too illiquid, which could result in financial distress during a liquidity event. for additional information regarding our management of liquidity risk, see “adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital” above. finally, we must also manage the operational and compliance risks to which we are exposed. we consider operational risk to be the risk of not achieving business objectives due to inadequate or failed processes or information systems, poor data quality, human error or the external environment (i.e., natural disasters). operational risk includes, among others, the risk that employee error or intentional misconduct could result in a material financial misstatement; a failure to monitor an outsource partner’s compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements; or a failure to adequately monitor and control access to data in our systems we grant to third-party service providers. as processes are changed, or new products and services are introduced, we may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from such changes. compliance risk arises from the failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules, regulations and internal policies and procedures. operational and compliance risks can expose us to reputational risks as well as fines, civil money penalties or payment of damages and can lead to diminished business opportunities and diminished ability to expand key operations. an inability to accept or maintain deposits due to market demand or regulatory constraints could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business. as a source of funding, our u.s. banking subsidiaries accept deposits from individuals through third-party brokerage networks as well as directly from consumers through american express personal savings. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $40.8 billion in total u.s. retail deposits. many other financial services firms are increasing their use of deposit funding, and as such we may experience increased competition in the deposit markets, particularly as to brokerage networks. we cannot predict how this increased competition will affect deposit renewal rates, costs or availability. if we are required to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits, our funding costs will be adversely impacted. our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates on deposits also is dependent on capital levels of our u.s. banking subsidiaries. the fdia generally prohibits a bank, including centurion bank and aebfsb, from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless (1) it is well capitalized or (2) it is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the fdic. a significant amount of our outstanding u.s. retail deposits has been raised through third-party brokerage networks, and such deposits are considered brokered deposits for bank regulatory purposes. a bank that is less than well capitalized generally may not pay an interest rate on any deposit, including direct-to-consumer deposits, in excess of 75 basis points over the national rate published by the fdic unless the fdic determines that the bank is operating in a high-rate area. an adequately capitalized insured depository institution may not accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless it has applied for and been granted a waiver of this prohibition by the fdic. undercapitalized depository institutions may not solicit deposits by offering interest rates that are significantly higher than the prevailing rates of interest on insured deposits in such institution’s normal market areas or in the market area in which such deposits would otherwise be accepted. there are no such restrictions on a bank that is well capitalized (provided such bank is not subject to a capital maintenance provision within a written agreement, consent order, order to cease and desist, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by its federal regulator). if a depository institution’s federal regulator determines that it is in an unsafe or unsound condition or is engaging in unsafe or unsound banking practices, the regulator may reclassify a well capitalized institution as adequately capitalized, require an adequately capitalized institution to comply with certain restrictions as if it were undercapitalized, and require an undercapitalized institution take certain actions applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions.   98 table of contents while centurion bank and aebfsb were considered “well capitalized” for these purposes as of december 31, 2013, there can be no assurance that they will continue to meet this definition. the new capital rules, when fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. additionally, our regulators can adjust the requirements to be well capitalized at any time and have authority to place limitations on our deposit businesses, including the interest rate we pay on deposits. an inability to attract or maintain deposits in the future could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business. we rely on third-party providers of various computer systems, platforms and other services integral to the operations of our businesses. these third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. we operate a service network around the world. in order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors many of the computer systems and other services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses. a significant amount of this outsourcing occurs in developing countries. we also rely on third parties to interact with our customers, including through social media platforms and mobile technologies. we are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. a failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider’s compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in economic and reputational harm to us. there is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. in addition, the management of multiple third-party vendors increases our operational complexity and decreases our control. it is also possible that the cost efficiencies of certain outsourcings will decrease as the demand for these services increases around the world. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers, merchants, processors, aggregators, gns partners and other third parties for the timely transmission of accurate information across our global network. if a service provider or other third party fails to provide the data quality, communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or other cybersecurity incidents or any other reason, the failure could interrupt or compromise the quality of our services to customers. see “a significant disruption or breach in the security of our information technology systems or an increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brand and significant legal, regulatory and financial exposure and could reduce the use and acceptance of our charge and credit cards” above. our business is subject to the effects of geopolitical events, weather, natural disasters and other conditions. geopolitical events, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, severe weather conditions, health pandemics, intrusion into or degradation of our infrastructure by hackers and other catastrophic events can have a negative effect on our business. because of our proximity to the world trade center, our headquarters were damaged as a result of the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001. similar events or other disasters or catastrophic events in the future could have a negative effect on our businesses and infrastructure, including our information technology systems. because we derive a portion of our revenues from travel-related spending, our business will be sensitive to safety concerns, and thus is likely to decline during periods in which travelers become concerned about safety issues or when travel might involve health-related risks. in addition, disruptions in air travel and other forms of travel caused by such events can result in the payment of claims under travel interruption insurance policies that we offer and, if such disruptions to travel are prolonged, they can materially adversely affect overall travel-related spending. if the conditions described above (or similar ones) result in widespread or lengthy disruptions to travel, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. card member spending may also be negatively impacted in areas affected by natural disasters or other catastrophic events. the impact of such events on the overall economy may also adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.   99 table of contents special note about forward-looking statements we have made various statements in this report that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements may also be made in our other reports filed with or furnished to the sec, in our press releases and in other documents. in addition, from time to time, we, through our management, may make oral forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those identified above and on pages 54-56 of the 2013 annual report to shareholders, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. the words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “optimistic,” “intend,” “plan,” “aim,” “will,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “likely” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. we caution you that the risk factors described above and in the 2013 annual report to shareholders are not exclusive. there may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. we undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.   item 1b. unresolved