item 1a.  risk factors. the following factors could materially adversely affect the company’s operating results and financial condition. although the company has tried to discuss key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time, and the company cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect the company’s financial performance. a change in sales strategy or financial viability of the company’s suppliers could adversely affect the company’s sales or earnings. most of the company’s agreements with suppliers are terminable by either party on short notice for any reason. the company currently sources products from thousands of suppliers. however, approximately 29% of the company’s dollar volume purchases in 2012 were from its five largest suppliers. if any of these suppliers changes its sales strategy to reduce its reliance on distribution channels, or decides to terminate its business relationship with the company, sales and earnings could be adversely affected until the company was able to establish relationships with suppliers of comparable products. although the company believes its relationships with these key suppliers are good, they could change their strategies as a result of a change in control, expansion of their direct sales force, changes in the marketplace or other factors beyond the company’s control, including a key supplier becoming financially distressed. the company has risks associated with the sale of nonconforming products and services. historically, the company has experienced a small number of cases in which the company’s vendors supplied the company with products that did not conform to the agreed upon specifications without the knowledge of the company. additionally, the company may inadvertently sell a product not suitable for a customer’s application. the company addresses this risk through its quality control processes, by seeking to limit liability and its warranty in its customer contracts, by obtaining indemnification rights from vendors and by maintaining insurance responsive to these risks. however, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to include protective provisions in all of its contracts, that vendors will have the financial capability to fulfill their indemnification obligations to the company, or that insurance can be obtained with sufficiently broad coverage or in amounts sufficient to fully protect the company. the company’s foreign operations are subject to political, economic and currency risks. the company derives over 40% of its revenues from sales outside of the united states. economic and political conditions in some of these markets may adversely affect the company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition in these markets. the company’s results of operations and the value of its foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and different legal, tax, accounting and regulatory requirements. the company has risks associated with inventory. the company must identify the right product mix and maintain sufficient inventory on hand to meet customer orders. failure to do so could adversely affect the company’s sales and earnings. however, if circumstances change (for example, an unexpected shift in market demand, pricing or customer defaults) there could be a material impact on the net realizable value of the company’s inventory. to guard against inventory obsolescence, the company has negotiated various return rights and price protection agreements with certain key suppliers. the company also maintains an inventory valuation reserve account against diminution in the value or salability of the company’s inventory. however, there is no guaranty that these arrangements will be sufficient to avoid write-offs in excess of the company’s reserves in all circumstances.   6 the company’s operating results are affected by copper prices. the company’s operating results have been affected by changes in copper prices, which is a major component in a portion of the electrical wire and cable products sold by the company. as the company’s purchase costs with suppliers change to reflect the changing copper prices, its mark-up to customers remains relatively constant, resulting in higher or lower sales revenue and gross profit depending upon whether copper prices are increasing or decreasing. the degree to which price changes in the copper commodity spot market correlate to product price changes is a factor of market demand levels for products. when demand is strong, there is a high degree of correlation but when demand is weak, there can be significant time lags between spot price changes and market price changes. the company has risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses. in connection with recent and future acquisitions, it is necessary for the company to continue to create a cohesive business from the various acquired properties. this requires the establishment of a common management team to guide the acquired businesses, the conversion of numerous information systems to a common operating system, the establishment of a brand identity for the acquired businesses, the streamlining of the operating structure to optimize efficiency and customer service and a reassessment of the inventory and supplier base to ensure the availability of products at competitive prices. no assurance can be given that these various actions can continue to be completed without disruption to the business, that the various actions can be completed in a short period of time or that anticipated improvements in operating performance can be achieved. the company’s debt agreements could impose restrictions on its business. the company’s debt agreements contain certain financial and operating covenants that limit its discretion with respect to certain business matters. these covenants restrict the company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness as well as limit the amount of dividends or share repurchases the company may make. as a result of these restrictions, the company is limited in how it may conduct business and may be unable to compete effectively or take advantage of new business opportunities. the company has risks associated with accounts receivable. although no single customer accounts for more than 3% of the company’s sales, a payment default by one of its larger customers could have a short-term impact on earnings. given the current economic environment, constrained access to capital and general market contractions may heighten exposure to customer defaults. a decline in project volume could adversely affect the company’s sales and earnings. while most of the company’s sales and earnings are generated by comparatively smaller and more frequent orders, the fulfillment of large orders for capital projects generates significant sales and earnings. slow macro-economic growth rates, difficult credit market conditions for our customers, weak demand for our customers’ products or other customer spending constraints can result in project delays or cancellations, potentially having a material adverse effect on the company’s financial results.   7 item 1b.  unresolved