item 1a.  risk factors. the following factors could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. although we have tried to discuss key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. a change in sales strategy or financial viability of our suppliers could adversely affect our sales or earnings. most of our agreements with suppliers are terminable by either party on short notice for any reason. we currently source products from thousands of suppliers. however, approximately one-third of our annual dollar volume purchases are sourced from our five largest suppliers. if any of these suppliers changes its sales strategy to reduce its reliance on distribution channels, or decides to terminate its business relationship with us, our sales and earnings could be adversely affected until we are able to establish relationships with suppliers of comparable products. although we believe our relationships with these key suppliers are good, they could change their strategies as a result of a change in control, expansion of their direct sales force, changes in the marketplace or other factors beyond our control, including a key supplier becoming financially distressed. we have risks associated with the sale of nonconforming products and services. historically, we have experienced a small number of cases in which our vendors supplied us with products that did not conform to the agreed upon specifications without our knowledge. additionally, we may inadvertently sell a product not suitable for a customer’s application. we address this risk through our quality control processes, by seeking to limit liability and our warranty in our customer contracts, by obtaining indemnification rights from vendors and by maintaining insurance responsive to these risks. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to include protective provisions in all of our contracts, that vendors will have the financial capability to fulfill their indemnification obligations to us, or that insurance can be obtained with sufficiently broad coverage or in amounts sufficient to fully protect us. our foreign operations are subject to political, economic and currency risks. we derive over 40% of our revenues from sales outside of the united states. economic and political conditions in some of these markets may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition in these markets. our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and different legal, tax, accounting and regulatory requirements. we have risks associated with inventory. we must identify the right product mix and maintain sufficient inventory on hand to meet customer orders. failure to do so could adversely affect our sales and earnings. however, if circumstances change (for example, an unexpected shift in market demand, pricing or customer defaults) there could be a material impact on the net realizable value of our inventory. to guard against inventory obsolescence, we have negotiated various return rights and price protection agreements with certain key suppliers. we also maintain an inventory valuation reserve account against diminution in the value or salability of our inventory. however, there is no guaranty that these arrangements will be sufficient to avoid write-offs in excess of our reserves in all circumstances. our operating results are affected by copper prices. our operating results have been affected by changes in copper prices, which is a major component in a portion of the electrical wire and cable products sold by us. as our purchase costs with suppliers change to reflect the changing copper prices, our mark-up to customers remains relatively constant, resulting in higher or lower sales revenue and gross profit depending upon whether copper prices are increasing or decreasing. the degree to which price changes in the copper commodity spot market correlate to product price changes, is a factor of market demand for products. when demand is strong, there is a high degree of correlation but when demand is weak, there can be significant time lags between spot price changes and market price changes. we have risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses. in connection with recent and future acquisitions, it is necessary for us to continue to create a cohesive business from the various acquired properties. this requires the establishment of a common management team to guide the acquired businesses, the conversion of numerous information systems to a common operating system, the establishment of a brand identity for the acquired businesses, the streamlining of the operating structure to optimize efficiency and customer service and a reassessment of the inventory and supplier base to ensure the availability of products at competitive prices. no assurance can be given that these various actions can be completed without disruption to the business, or in a short period of time or that anticipated improvements in operating performance can be achieved. 5 our debt agreements could impose restrictions on our business. our debt agreements contain certain financial and operating covenants that limit our discretion with respect to certain business matters. these covenants restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness as well as limit the amount of dividends or share repurchases we may make. as a result of these restrictions, we are limited in how we may conduct business and may be unable to compete effectively or take advantage of new business opportunities. we have risks associated with accounts receivable. although no single customer accounts for more than 3% of our sales, a payment default by one of our larger customers could have a short-term impact on earnings. given the current economic environment, constrained access to capital and general market uncertainties, our exposure to customer defaults may be heightened. a decline in project volume could adversely affect our sales and earnings. while most of our sales and earnings are generated by comparatively smaller and more frequent orders, the fulfillment of large orders for capital projects generates significant sales and earnings. slow macro-economic growth rates, difficult credit market conditions for our customers, weak demand for our customers’ products or other customer spending constraints can result in project delays or cancellations, potentially having a material adverse effect on our financial results. item 1b.  unresolved