item 1a.  risk factors   you should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this annual report on form 10-k and other reports we file with the securities and exchange commission.  if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.   our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our revenues could harm our business and prospects.  a number of contracts held by those customers may be terminated, or the scope and funding reduced, at the customer’s discretion.   our business is dependent on sales to a small number of customers, which include agencies of the u.s. government.  during fiscal 2013, two customers, each a u.s. government agency, accounted for 41% of our total revenues.  during fiscal 2012, one customer, which was a u.s. government agency, accounted for 23% of our total revenues.  during fiscal 2011, three customers accounted for 53% of our total revenues.  we can provide no assurance that our existing customers will increase or maintain their level of demand for our products.   a significant number of our government contracts may be terminated at the government’s discretion. there were no terminations for convenience in fiscal year ended march 31, 2013.  in both fiscal years ended march 31, 2012 and march 31, 2011, one of our contracts with the u.s. government was terminated in whole or in part for convenience by the u.s. government.  although these terminations did not result in material losses to us, future contract terminations could negatively impact our results of operations.  the termination of our relationship with one or more of our significant customers or the reduction or delay of orders of our systems by these customers would substantially reduce our revenues, and our business and prospects may be harmed.   our results of operations are affected by the overall economy and governmental spending.   our results of operations have in the recent past been, as may in the future be materially adversely affected by the conditions in the global economy, global political climate and the impact of those conditions on u.s. and foreign government spending. the global economic recession has caused extreme volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets, including a significant reduction in the availability of capital resources to many business enterprises. u.s. and foreign economies have experienced significant declines in employment, spending, household wealth and lending.  businesses have faced, and may continue to face, weakened demand for their products and services, difficulty obtaining access to financing, increased funding costs, and barriers to expanding operations. u.s. and foreign government spending for programs involving products such as ours may be reduced or delayed, now or in the future, due to reduced tax revenues and other spending   9 table of contents   imperatives, including financial institution support and economic stimulus programs.  government appropriations are potentially subject to changes as a result of compliance with the budget control act of 2011 and the challenges associated with managing the federal debt ceiling, either of which could harm our operations and reduce future revenues.   our business is dependent upon governmental policies and appropriations.   our largest customers are government agencies, in the u.s. and abroad, and demand for our products is dependent upon national priorities and governmental initiatives. these priorities and initiatives are subject to change from time to time in response to the economic and political environment.  in addition, political uprisings have created uncertainty in the continuity of certain regimes who are potential purchasers of our products and services.  we are also exposed to budget approval and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events and macroeconomic conditions which are beyond our control.  in prior years, the war on terror had resulted in increased purchases of equipment by the department of defense.  with the withdrawal of troops and equipment from iraq and afghanistan, the level of demand for new equipment and service has declined and future demand is uncertain. significant changes in defense spending could have long-term consequences for our size and structure. in addition, changes in government priorities and requirements could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.  in addition, changes to political leadership in other countries can delay or curtail our results of operation.   our lengthy sales cycle requires us to incur significant expenses with no assurance that we will generate revenue or recover such expenses.   a substantial portion of our sales depends upon the decision by governmental agencies to upgrade or expand security at border crossing inspection sites, existing airports, seaports and other facilities. accordingly, a portion of our product sales is subject to delays associated with the lengthy approval processes that often accompany such capital expenditures. during these approval periods, we expend significant financial and managerial resources in anticipation of future orders that may not occur. if we fail to receive an order after expending these resources, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to recover the costs incurred and our business and prospects may be harmed.   we use estimates in recognizing revenues and if these estimates change, our profitability may be adversely affected.   revenues for certain of our fixed price contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method based on progress towards completion, which requires estimates of total costs at completion. estimating costs at completion on our long-term contracts, particularly due to the technical nature of the services being performed, is complex and involves significant judgment. adjustments to original estimates are often required as work progresses and additional information becomes known, even though the scope of the work required under the contract may not change. any adjustment as a result of a change in estimate is recognized as events become known. cost overruns or changes in the underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates could result in adjustments that may adversely affect future financial results.   we conduct our business worldwide, which exposes us to a number of difficulties in coordinating our international activities and dealing with multiple regulatory environments, as well as risks associated with geopolitical and economic instability.   the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the foreign markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability of some of the geographic areas in which we operate.  additional acts of terrorism could create further uncertainties and instability.  to the extent this results in disruption or delays in the sale or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.  our revenues from international customers accounted for approximately 34%, 34% and 32% of our net revenues for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2013, march 31, 2012 and march 31, 2011, respectively, and a significant number of domestic customer orders require shipments to, and services provided in, overseas locations. in addition, we transact business internationally with a number of our key suppliers. as a result of our worldwide business operations, we are subject to various risks, including:   · international regulatory requirements and policy changes;   · lengthy sales cycles;   · longer payment cycles by foreign customers;   · difficulties in inventory management, accounts receivable collection and the management of distributors or representatives;   · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;   10 table of contents   · geopolitical instability;   · fewer legal protections for intellectual property   · political and economic changes and disruptions;   · preference towards local suppliers;   · governmental currency controls and restrictions on repatriation of earnings;   · interruption of transportation flow for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers;   · currency exchange rate fluctuations; and   · tariff regulations.   although our international sales have been denominated primarily in u.s. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates that increase the relative value of the u.s. dollar may make it more difficult for us to compete with foreign manufacturers on price or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results.   we must comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and antitrust, anti-competition and similar laws in other jurisdictions and failure to do so could lead to substantial liability.  we could also face investigations by one or more government agencies that could be costly to respond to and divert the attention of key personnel from business operations.  an adverse outcome from any such investigation could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses.   we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as health and safety regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet our customers’ needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs to comply with new regulations, both of which may adversely affect our operating results.   we could be prohibited from shipping our products to certain countries if we are unable to obtain u.s. government authorization regarding the export of our products, or if current or future export laws limit or otherwise restrict our business.   we must comply with u.s. laws regulating the export of our products. in some cases, explicit authorization from the u.s. government is needed to export our products. the export regulations and the governing policies applicable to our business are subject to change. we cannot provide assurance that such export authorizations will be available for our products in the future. if we cannot obtain required government approvals under applicable regulations, we may not be able to sell our products in certain international jurisdictions.   our business may be dependent upon our employees obtaining and maintaining required security clearances, as well as our ability to obtain security clearances for the facility in which we perform sensitive government work.   certain of our u.s. government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances and we are required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with department of defense requirements.  loss of a facility clearance, or an employee’s failure to obtain or maintain a security clearance, could result in a u.s. government customer terminating an existing contract or choosing not to renew a contract. if we cannot maintain or obtain the required security clearances for our facilities and our employees, or obtain these clearances in a timely manner, we may be unable to perform certain u.s. government contracts. lack of required clearances could also impede our ability to bid on or win new government contracts, which might result in terminating current research activities. this could damage our reputation and our revenue would likely decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and ability to meet our financial obligations.   our reliance on a limited number of suppliers for some key components and subsystems for our products could harm our business and prospects.   we rely on a number of suppliers to provide materials and subsystems for our products. we are reliant on a limited number of key international supply partners for core technology products, including subsystems with complex sub-tier supply chains.   11 table of contents   in addition, certain material or subsystems used in our products may be available from a sole source or limited number of suppliers, increasing the risk of supply disruption. although our products may be able to be redesigned to avoid using any sole source supplier, it would be expensive and time consuming to make such a change. if we change any of our suppliers, a qualification process would need to be completed and the affected product may require redesign, creating potential delays in product shipments.   increases in the cost for certain commodity materials or commodity components may increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting products and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs.   some of our suppliers may allocate material due to market demand for the products they produce or market constraints such as the global availability of raw materials. we have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and there can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to meet our requirements. many of our competitors are much larger and may be able to obtain priority allocations from these shared suppliers, thereby limiting or making our sources of supply unreliable for these critical materials. there is also the possibility that a key single source supplier may be acquired by or form a strategic alignment with a competitor, which could impact our ability to secure required materials.  if our supply of materials is disrupted, we cannot ensure that we would be able to find another supplier on a timely basis.   we depend on our subcontractors and suppliers to deliver material that is in full compliance with critical quality and specification requirements. quality issues may affect the reliability and performance of our products, customer confidence, and adversely impact financial performance. any difficulty in obtaining sufficient and timely delivery of conforming material could result in delays or reductions in product shipments that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and consolidated results of operations. this in turn could also damage our reputation in the market and cause us to lose market share.   new regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex and may result in damage to our relationships with customers.   on august 22, 2012, under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, or the dodd-frank act, the sec adopted new requirements for companies that manufacture products that contain certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals. these rules require public companies to perform diligence and to report annually to the sec whether such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries. the implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals we use in the manufacture of our products. in addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to ascertain the origins for these minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as conflict mineral free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and lead to a loss of revenue. these new requirements could limit the pool of suppliers that can provide conflict-free minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability.   early termination of client contracts or contract penalties could adversely affect results of operations.   client contracts can change or terminate early for a variety of reasons. change of control, financial issues, declining general economic conditions or other changes in client circumstances may cause us or the client to seek to modify or terminate a contract. further, either we or the client may generally terminate a contract for material uncured breach by the other. if we breach a contract or fail to perform in accordance with contractual service levels, we may be required to refund money previously paid to us by the client, or to pay penalties or other damages. even if we have not breached, we may deal with various situations from time to time which may result in the amendment or termination of a contract. these steps can result in significant current period charges and/or reductions in current or future revenue.   fluctuations in our operating results may cause our stock price to fluctuate.   given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant sales, research and development, and manufacturing costs. as a result of our fixed costs, declines in revenue could disproportionately affect our operating results and stock price at any time. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results and the market price of our common stock include:   · demand for and market acceptance of our x-ray inspection systems;   12 table of contents   · lengthy sales cycles and the effect of large orders;   · termination of contracts and contractual awards at the customer’s convenience;   · changes in political agendas or national priorities;   · adverse changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business;   · political unrest in the regions where we transact business;   · adverse changes in industries on which we are particularly dependent;   · competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices for our products;   · delays or problems in the introduction of new products;   · our competitors’ announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations;   · variations in our product mix;   · delays in acceptance testing by customers;   · the timing and amount of our expenditures in anticipation of future sales;   · increased costs of raw materials or supplies; and   · changes in the volume or timing of product orders.   we could incur substantial costs as a result of liability claims and adverse publicity if our x-ray inspection systems fail to detect bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats to personal safety.   if our x-ray inspection systems fail to detect the presence of bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats to personal safety, we could be subject to product and other liability claims and negative publicity, which could result in increased costs, reduced sales, and a decline in the market price of our common stock. there are many factors beyond our control that could result in the failure of our products to detect the presence of bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats to personal safety. examples of these factors include operator error or misuse of or malfunction of our equipment. the failure of our systems to detect the presence of these dangerous materials may lead to personal injury, loss of life, and extensive property damage and may result in potential claims against us.   our products are complex, and undetected defects may increase our costs, harm our reputation with customers, or divert our resources from other purposes.   our products are extremely complex and must operate successfully with complex products from other vendors.  despite testing, our new or existing products may contain defects, errors, or performance problems when first introduced, when new versions or enhancements are released, or even after these products have been used by our customers for a period of time.  these problems could result in expensive and time-consuming design modifications or warranty charges, delays in the introduction of new products or enhancements, significant increases in our service and maintenance costs, exposure to liability for damages, mandatory or voluntary recall or product upgrades, and divert the attention of personnel from our product development efforts.  undetected errors may create customer satisfaction issues.  if we are unable to repair these problems in a timely manner, we may experience a loss of or delay in revenue and significant damage to our reputation and business prospects.   the existence of any defects, errors or failures in our products could also lead to product liability claims or lawsuits against us.  our product liability and umbrella liability insurance may be insufficient to protect us in the event of such product liability claims. there is a risk that product liability insurance will not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. if liability claims exceed our current or available insurance coverage, our business and prospects may be harmed. regardless of the adequacy of our product liability insurance protection, any significant claim may have an adverse effect on our industry and market reputation, leading to a substantial decrease in demand for our products and reduced revenues.   13 table of contents   we may not be able to fund our research and development activities sufficiently to maintain our competitiveness.   we generate funds for our research and development activities from operations, private sources and the government. we may be unable to generate the funds necessary to support our research and development activities if we do not generate sufficient funds from operations, other potential private sources, or the government. we may not successfully compete with other companies and research institutions for government funding and funding from other private sources. additionally, government-funding priorities are subject to frequent changes. for example, in fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011, we recorded $2,124,000, $4,409,000, and $4,821,000, respectively, for government-sponsored research and development. there is no guarantee that we will receive funds for government-sponsored research in the future. if we are unable to fund our research and development activities through our operations or from outside sources, we may be unable to continue to innovate or bring our innovations to market on a timely or cost effective basis, or our innovations may be surpassed by other competitors or new technologies.   our success depends on new product development.   our continuing research and development program is designed to develop new products and to enhance and improve our current products. we plan to expend significant resources on the development of new products. the successful development of our products and product enhancements is subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including:   · unanticipated delays;   · access to capital;   · budget overruns;   · technical problems; and   · other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of new products and product enhancements, including for example, changes requested or required by governmental and regulatory agencies.   given the uncertainties inherent with product development and introduction of x-ray inspection systems, we cannot assure that our product development efforts will be successful on a timely basis, or within budget, if at all. our failure to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis or within budget at competitive prices would harm our business and prospects.   our success depends upon our ability to adapt to rapid changes in technology and customer requirements.   the market for our products has been characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent product introductions and evolving industry standards and customer requirements. we believe that these trends are expected to continue into the foreseeable future. our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to enhance our existing products, successfully develop new products that meet changing customer and regulatory requirements and gain market acceptance. if we fail to do so, our products may be rendered obsolete or noncompetitive by new industry standards or changing technology, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. in developing any new product, we may be required to make a substantial investment before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers’ needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue.   we may not be able to compete successfully.   a number of companies have developed products that compete with our x-ray inspection products. many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources. some of our competitors have more extensive research, marketing and manufacturing capabilities and greater technical and personnel resources, and may be better positioned to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. our failure to compete successfully could decrease demand for our products or make our products obsolete.   in the inspection systems market, competition is based primarily on the following factors:   · product performance, functionality and quality;   · price;   · the overall cost of ownership of the system;   14 table of contents   · prior customer relationships;   · technological capabilities of the product;   · certification by government authorities;   · local market presence; and   · breadth of the sales and service organization.   to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products in a timely manner. we recognize that we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors may emerge, and entire product lines may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the value of these product lines.   our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our intellectual property.   we rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, trademarks, copyrights and confidentiality procedures to protect our technology. despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our technology may be inadequate. existing trade secret, patent, trademark and copyright laws offer only limited protection. our patents could be invalidated or circumvented.  in addition, others may develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or competitors may offer equivalent products in competition with our products, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. the laws of some foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. we cannot assure that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operations and financial results.   our business may be materially and adversely affected by infringement claims initiated by us or our competitors.   initiating or defending against the enforcement of our intellectual property rights may result in significant, protracted, and costly litigation. we have previously been involved in various litigations involving our intellectual property and have been successful in protecting such interests to date. we expect intellectual property disputes to be an ordinary part of our business for the foreseeable future. we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights, or to establish the validity of our property rights. there can be no assurance that we will prevail in any such action. litigation by or against us could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation results in a favorable outcome for us. in the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of certain processes, or obtain licenses for the infringing technology. if a license were required, we cannot assure that we would be able to obtain one on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. we cannot assure that we will be successful in developing non-infringing technology or that the cost or time required to develop such technology will be reasonable.   if we suffer loss to our facilities, information technology systems, or warehousing and logistical services due to a catastrophe or other natural or man-made events, our operation, our operations could be seriously harmed.   our facilities, information technology systems, or warehousing and logistical services are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters.  if any of these facilities or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility.   furthermore, we rely extensively on information technology systems to interact with our employees and our customers and to run our business effectively. these interactions include ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished goods, shipping product to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations. our systems could become damaged or cease to functional properly due to any number of causes, including issues caused by ongoing projects to improve our information technology systems, catastrophic events, power outages or cyber and other security threats, including computer viruses or attacks by hackers.  a disruption of our information technology systems could affect our ability to accurately manufacture and ship product, invoice customers, and timely and accurately process and report the results of our operations, financial position and cash flows.   15 table of contents   our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified management professionals.   our future success depends in large measure upon the continued contributions of key personnel.  we cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel in sufficient numbers, with the requisite skills or on acceptable terms necessary or advisable to support our continued growth.  if we lose professionals or are unable to attract new talent, we will not be able to maintain our position in the market or grow our business.   external financing may not be available in the future.   we may require additional capital to finance continuing operations. we cannot assure that operations will continue to be profitable, that we will generate levels of revenues and cash flows sufficient to fund operations, or, if necessary, that we will be able to obtain financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. financing arrangements may not be available or sufficient to meet our cash needs or, if available, at a cost that we believe is reasonable.   future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders could depress the market price of our common stock.   substantially all of our outstanding shares of common stock are freely tradable without restriction or further registration. affiliates must sell all shares they own in compliance with the volume and other requirements of rule 144. nevertheless, sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our stockholders, or even the potential for such sales, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities.   the volatility of our stock price could adversely affect an investment in our common stock.   the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. we believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including:   · announcements of developments related to our business;   · quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and order levels;   · general conditions in the worldwide economy;   · announcements of technological innovations;   · new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;   · developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; and   · developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers.   in recent years the stock market in general, and the markets for shares of small capitalization and “high-tech” companies, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   provisions in our articles of organization and our shareholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging certain offers for our business or common stock, and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.   provisions in our articles of organization and our shareholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. these provisions could limit the price that acquirers might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. specifically, our articles of organization authorize our board of directors to issue up to 100,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, to fix certain rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imposed upon any wholly unissued shares of preferred stock, to fix the number of shares constituting any such series, and to fix the designation of any such series, without further vote or action by our shareholders. the terms of any series of preferred stock, which may include priority claims to assets and dividends and special voting rights, could adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock and thereby reduce the value of our common stock. we have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock. we have in place a shareholder rights plan, which was renewed in april of 2008, under which our stockholders are entitled to purchase shares of our preferred stock under certain circumstances. these circumstances include the purchase of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock by a person or group, or the announcement of a tender or exchange offer to acquire 15% or more of the outstanding common stock.   item 1b.  unresolved