item 1a.  risk factors   you should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this annual report on form 10-k and other reports we file with the securities and exchange commission.  if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.   our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our revenues could harm our business and prospects.  a number of contracts held by those customers may be terminated, or the scope and funding reduced, at the customer’s discretion.   our business is dependent on sales to a small number of customers, which include agencies of the u.s. government. during fiscal 2012, one customer, which was a u.s. government agency, accounted for 23% of our total revenues.   during fiscal 2011, three customers accounted for 53% of our total revenues.  during fiscal 2010, two customers accounted for 36% of our total revenues.  we can provide no assurance that our existing customers will increase or maintain their level of demand for our products.   a significant number of our government contracts may be terminated at the government’s discretion.  in each of the fiscal years ended march 31, 2012, march 31, 2011 and march 31, 2010, one of our contracts with the u.s. government was terminated in whole or in part for convenience by the u.s. government.    although these terminations did not result in material losses to us, future contract terminations could negatively impact our results of operations.  the termination of our relationship with one or more of our significant customers or the reduction or delay of orders of our systems by these customers would substantially reduce our revenues, and our business and prospects may be harmed.   our results of operations are affected by the overall economy and governmental spending.   our results of operations may be materially adversely affected by the conditions in the global economy, global political climate and the impact of those conditions on u.s. and foreign government spending. the global economic recession has caused extreme volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets, including a significant reduction in the availability of capital resources to many business enterprises. u.s. and foreign economies have experienced significant declines in employment, spending, household wealth and lending.  businesses have faced, and may continue to face, weakened demand for their products and services, difficulty obtaining access to financing, increased funding costs, and barriers to expanding operations. u.s. and foreign government spending for programs involving products such as ours may be reduced or delayed, now or in the future, due   9 table of contents   to reduced tax revenues and other spending imperatives, including financial institution support and economic stimulus programs.  economic and market conditions may continue to worsen and could negatively impact our results of operations.   our business is dependent upon governmental policies and appropriations.   our largest customers are government agencies, in the u.s. and abroad, and demand for our products is dependent upon national priorities and governmental initiatives. these priorities and initiatives are subject to change from time to time in response to the economic and political environment.   in addition, political uprisings have created uncertainty in the continuity of certain regimes who are potential purchasers of our products and services.  we are also exposed to budget approval and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events and macroeconomic conditions which are beyond our control. while the overall level of u.s. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, we can give no assurance that such spending will continue to grow, or not be reduced. significant changes in defense spending could have long-term consequences for our size and structure. in addition, changes in government priorities and requirements could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.  in addition, changes to political leadership in other countries can delay or curtail our results of operation.   our lengthy sales cycle requires us to incur significant expenses with no assurance that we will generate revenue or recover such expenses.   a substantial portion of our sales depends upon the decision by governmental agencies to upgrade or expand security at border crossing inspection sites, existing airports, seaports and other facilities. accordingly, a portion of our product sales is subject to delays associated with the lengthy approval processes that often accompany such capital expenditures. during these approval periods, we expend significant financial and managerial resources in anticipation of future orders that may not occur. if we fail to receive an order after expending these resources, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to recover the costs incurred and our business and prospects may be harmed.   we use estimates in recognizing revenues and if we make changes to estimates used in recognizing revenues, our profitability may be adversely affected.   revenues for certain of our contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method based on progress towards completion, which requires estimates of total costs at completion. estimating costs at completion on our long-term contracts, particularly due to the technical nature of the services being performed, is complex and involves significant judgment. adjustments to original estimates are often required as work progresses and additional information becomes known, even though the scope of the work required under the contract may not change. any adjustment as a result of a change in estimate is recognized as events become known. changes in the underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates could result in adjustments that may adversely affect future financial results.   we conduct our business worldwide, which exposes us to a number of difficulties in coordinating our international activities and dealing with multiple regulatory environments, as well as risks associated with geopolitical and economic instability.   the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the foreign markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability of some of the geographic areas in which we operate.  acts of terrorism could create further uncertainties and instability.  to the extent this results in disruption or delays in the sale or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.  our revenues from international customers accounted for approximately 34%, 32% and 32% of our net revenues for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2012, march 31, 2011 and march 31, 2010, respectively, and a significant number of domestic customer orders require shipments to, and services provided in, overseas locations. in addition, we transact business internationally with a number of our key suppliers. as a result of our worldwide business operations, we are subject to various risks, including:   · international regulatory requirements and policy changes;   · lengthy sales cycles;   · longer payment cycles by foreign customers;   · difficulties in inventory management, accounts receivable collection and the management of distributors or representatives;   · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;   10 table of contents   · geopolitical instability;   · political and economic changes and disruptions;   · preference towards local suppliers;   · governmental currency controls;   · interruption of transportation flow for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers;   · currency exchange rate fluctuations; and   · tariff regulations.   although our international sales have been denominated primarily in u.s. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates that increase the relative value of the u.s. dollar may make it more difficult for us to compete with foreign manufacturers on price or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results.   changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses.   we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as health and safety regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet our customers’ needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs to comply with new regulations, both of which may adversely affect our operating results.   we could be prohibited from shipping our products to certain countries if we are unable to obtain u.s. government authorization regarding the export of our products, or if current or future export laws limit or otherwise restrict our business.   we must comply with u.s. laws regulating the export of our products. in some cases, explicit authorization from the u.s. government is needed to export our products. the export regulations and the governing policies applicable to our business are subject to change. we cannot provide assurance that such export authorizations will be available for our products in the future. if we cannot obtain required government approvals under applicable regulations, we may not be able to sell our products in certain international jurisdictions.   our reliance on a limited number of suppliers for some key components and subsystems for our products could harm our business and prospects.   we rely on a number of suppliers to provide materials and subsystems for our products. we are reliant on a limited number of key international supply partners for core technology products, including subsystems with complex sub-tier supply chains.  in addition, certain material or subsystems used in our products may be available from a sole source or limited number of suppliers, increasing the risk of supply disruption. although our products may be able to be redesigned to avoid using any sole source supplier, it would be expensive and time consuming to make such a change. if we change any of our suppliers, a qualification process would need to be completed and the affected product may require redesign, creating potential delays in product shipments.   increases in the cost for certain commodity materials or commodity components may increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting products and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs.   some of our suppliers may allocate material due to market demand for the products they produce or market constraints such as the global availability of raw materials. we have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and there can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to meet our requirements. many of our competitors are much larger and may be able to obtain priority allocations from these shared suppliers, thereby limiting or making our sources of supply unreliable for these critical materials. there is also the possibility that a key single source supplier may be acquired by or form a strategic alignment with a competitor, which could impact our ability to secure required materials.  if our supply of materials is disrupted, we cannot ensure that we would be able to find another supplier on a timely basis.   we depend on our subcontractors and suppliers to deliver material that is in full compliance with critical quality and specification requirements. quality issues may affect the reliability and performance of our products, customer confidence, and adversely impact financial performance. any difficulty in obtaining sufficient and timely delivery of conforming material could result in delays or reductions in product shipments that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and consolidated results of operations. this in turn could also damage our reputation in the market and cause us to lose market share.   11 table of contents   we do not expect to experience sustained difficulties in securing required material and subsystems to support forward business operations.   fluctuations in our operating results and unanticipated contract terminations may cause our stock price to fluctuate.   given the nature of the markets in which we participate, and given the right of key customers to terminate contracts at their discretion or otherwise reduce the scope of contracts, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant sales, research and development, and manufacturing costs. as a result of our fixed costs, declines in revenue could disproportionately affect our operating results and stock price at any time. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results and the market price of our common stock include:   · demand for and market acceptance of our x-ray inspection systems;   · lengthy sales cycles and the effect of large orders;   · termination of contracts and contractual awards at the customer’s convenience;   · changes in political agendas or national priorities;   · adverse changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business;   · political unrest in the regions where we transact business;   · adverse changes in industries on which we are particularly dependent;   · competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices for our products;   · delays or problems in the introduction of new products;   · our competitors’ announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations;   · variations in our product mix;   · the timing and amount of our expenditures in anticipation of future sales;   · increased costs of raw materials or supplies; and   · changes in the volume or timing of product orders.   we could incur substantial costs as a result of liability claims and adverse publicity if our x-ray inspection systems fail to detect bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats to personal safety.   if our x-ray inspection systems fail to detect the presence of bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats to personal safety, we could be subject to product and other liability claims and negative publicity, which could result in increased costs, reduced sales, and a decline in the market price of our common stock. there are many factors beyond our control that could result in the failure of our products to detect the presence of bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats to personal safety. examples of these factors include operator error or misuse of or malfunction of our equipment. the failure of our systems to detect the presence of these dangerous materials may lead to personal injury, loss of life, and extensive property damage and may result in potential claims against us.   our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from product liability claims.   our product liability and umbrella liability insurance may be insufficient to protect us in the event of product liability claims. moreover, there is a risk that product liability insurance will not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. if liability claims exceed our current or available insurance coverage, our business and prospects may be harmed. regardless of the adequacy of our product liability insurance protection, any significant claim may have an adverse affect on our industry and market reputation, leading to a substantial decrease in demand for our products and reduced revenues.   we may not be able to fund our research and development activities.   we generate funds for our research and development activities from operations, private sources and the government. we may be unable to generate the funds necessary to support our research and development activities if we do not generate sufficient   12 table of contents   funds from operations, other potential private sources, or the government. we may not successfully compete with other companies and research institutions for government funding and funding from other private sources. additionally, government-funding priorities are subject to frequent changes. for example, in fiscal 2012, 2011, and 2010, we recorded $4,409,000, $4,821,000, and $2,306,000, respectively, for government-sponsored research and development. there is no guarantee that we will receive funds for government-sponsored research in the future. if we are unable to fund our research and development activities through our operations or from outside sources, we may be unable to continue to innovate or bring our innovations to market on a timely or cost effective basis, or our innovations may be surpassed by other competitors or new technologies.   our success depends on new product development.   our continuing research and development program is designed to develop new products and to enhance and improve our current products. we plan to expend significant resources on the development of our new products. the successful development of our products and product enhancements is subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including:   · unanticipated delays;   · access to capital;   · budget overruns;   · technical problems; and   · other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of new products and product enhancements, including for example, changes requested or required by governmental and regulatory agencies.   given the uncertainties inherent with product development and introduction of x-ray inspection systems, we cannot assure that our product development efforts will be successful on a timely basis, or within budget, if at all. our failure to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis or within budget would harm our business and prospects.   our success depends upon our ability to adapt to rapid changes in technology and customer requirements.   the market for our products has been characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent product introductions and evolving industry standards and customer requirements. we believe that these trends are expected to continue into the foreseeable future. our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to enhance our existing products, successfully develop new products that meet changing customer and regulatory requirements and gain market acceptance. if we fail to do so, our products may be rendered obsolete or noncompetitive by new industry standards or changing technology, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. in developing any new product, we may be required to make a substantial investment before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers’ needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue.   we may not be able to compete successfully.   a number of companies have developed products that compete with our x-ray inspection products. many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources. some of our competitors have more extensive research, marketing and manufacturing capabilities and greater technical and personnel resources, and may be better positioned to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. our failure to compete successfully could decrease demand for our products or make our products obsolete.   in the inspection systems market, competition is based primarily on the following factors:   · product performance, functionality and quality;   · price;   · the overall cost of ownership of the system;   · prior customer relationships;   · technological capabilities of the product;   · certification by government authorities;   13 table of contents   · local market presence; and   · breadth of the sales and service organization.   to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products in a timely manner. we recognize that we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors may emerge, and entire product lines may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the value of these product lines.   our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our intellectual property.   we rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, trademarks, copyrights and confidentiality procedures to protect our technology. despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our technology may be inadequate. existing trade secret, patent, trademark and copyright laws offer only limited protection. our patents could be invalidated or circumvented.  in addition, others may develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or competitors may offer equivalent products in competition with our products, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. the laws of some foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. we cannot assure that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operations and financial results.   our business may be materially and adversely affected by infringement claims initiated by us or our competitors.   initiating or defending against the enforcement of our intellectual property rights may result in significant, protracted, and costly litigation. we have previously been involved in various litigations involving our intellectual property and have been successful in protecting such interests to date. we expect intellectual property disputes to be an ordinary part of our business for the foreseeable future. we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights, or to establish the validity of our property rights. there can be no assurance that we will prevail in any such action. litigation by or against us could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation results in a favorable outcome for us. in the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of certain processes, or obtain licenses for the infringing technology. if a license were required, we cannot assure that we would be able to obtain one on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. we cannot assure that we will be successful in developing non-infringing technology or that the cost or time required to develop such technology will be reasonable.   we rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business.   our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and internal reports, and to ship products to customers and invoice them on a timely basis depends significantly on our enterprise resource planning, production management, and other information systems. the failure of these systems to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, and it could require significant capital investments to remediate any such failure, problem or breach.   our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified management professionals.   our future success depends in large measure upon the continued contributions of key personnel.  we cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel in sufficient numbers, with the requisite skills or on acceptable terms necessary or advisable to support our continued growth.  if we lose professionals or are unable to attract new talent, we will not be able to maintain our position in the market or grow our business.   external financing may not be available in the future.   we may require additional capital to finance continuing operations. we cannot assure that operations will continue to be profitable, that we will generate levels of revenues and cash flows sufficient to fund operations, or, if necessary, that we will be able to obtain financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. financing arrangements may not be available or sufficient to meet our cash needs or, if available, at a cost that we believe is reasonable.   14 table of contents   future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders could depress the market price of our common stock.   substantially all of our outstanding shares of common stock are freely tradable without restriction or further registration. affiliates must sell all shares they own in compliance with the volume and other requirements of rule 144. nevertheless, sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our stockholders, or even the potential for such sales, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities.   the volatility of our stock price could adversely affect an investment in our common stock.   the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. we believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including:   · announcements of developments related to our business;   · quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and order levels;   · general conditions in the worldwide economy;   · announcements of technological innovations;   · new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;   · developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; and   · developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers.   in recent years the stock market in general, and the markets for shares of small capitalization and “high-tech” companies, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   provisions in our articles of organization and our shareholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging certain offers for our business or common stock, and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.   provisions in our articles of organization and our shareholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. these provisions could limit the price that acquirers might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. specifically, our articles of organization authorize our board of directors to issue up to 100,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, to fix certain rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imposed upon any wholly unissued shares of preferred stock, to fix the number of shares constituting any such series, and to fix the designation of any such series, without further vote or action by our shareholders. the terms of any series of preferred stock, which may include priority claims to assets and dividends and special voting rights, could adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock and thereby reduce the value of our common stock. we have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock. we have in place a shareholder rights plan, which was renewed in april of 2008, under which our stockholders are entitled to purchase shares of our preferred stock under certain circumstances. these circumstances include the purchase of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock by a person or group, or the announcement of a tender or exchange offer to acquire 15% or more of the outstanding common stock.   item 1b.  unresolved