item 1a. risk factors the regulatory climate has grown increasingly challenging to the company’s interests both domestically and internationally. under the current u.s. administration, various agencies within the federal government have begun to exercise increased scrutiny in permitting continued uses (or the expansion of such uses) of older chemistries, including many of the company’s products and, in some cases, have initiated or entertained challenges to these uses. at the regulatory level, the principles of sound science to which the company has always subscribed have been adulterated, in some cases, by political considerations. the challenge of the regulatory climate is even more pronounced in certain other geographical regions, most especially the european union and brazil, where the company faces resistance toward the continued use of certain of its products. there is no guarantee that this climate will change in the near term. nor is there any guarantee that the company will be able to maintain or expand the uses of many of its products in the face of these regulatory challenges. in particular, as more fully described in “legal proceedings” below, the company’s fungicide, pentachloronitrobenzene (“pcnb”) is subject to a stop sale, use and restraining order (“ssuro”) issued by the united states environmental protection agency (“usepa”) in august 2010 on the ground that the confidential statement of formula (“csf”) supporting the product’s registration does not list certain trace impurities. while the company has filed an amended csf, is negotiating with usepa to effect the removal of the ssuro and has challenged the issuance of the ssuro through litigation (that is currently pending), as long as the ssuro remains pending, the company is prohibited from selling pcnb products for domestic use. there is no guarantee that usepa will lift the ssuro or will approve the amended csf. further, it is possible that, through this process, the company will lose its pcnb registration in the us. if this comes to pass, then the company would likely be required to write down intangibles and write off inventory, in whole or in part in a potentially material amount. furthermore, the company would incur other costs related to inventory disposal and decommission costs.   7 table of contents american vanguard corporation and subsidiaries (dollars in thousands, except per share data)   the company may be subject to environmental liabilities. the company, its facilities, and its products are subject to numerous federal and state laws and governmental regulations concerning hazardous materials, environmental matters and employee health and safety. the company continually adapts its manufacturing process to the environmental control standards of the various regulatory agencies. the u.s. usepa and other federal, state and foreign agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that could have a significant impact on the company’s operations. the company expends substantial funds to minimize the discharge of materials into the environment and to comply with governmental regulations relating to protection of the environment and its workforce. federal and state authorities may seek fines and penalties for violation of the various laws and governmental regulations, and could, among other things, impose liability on the company for cleaning up the damage resulting from release of pesticides and other agents into the environment. further, while the company continually adapts its manufacturing process to the environmental control standards of regulatory authorities, it cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous or regulated materials. in the event of such contamination or injury, the company may be held liable for significant damages or fines. in the event that such damages or fines are assessed, it could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial and operating results. use of the company’s products is subject to continuing challenges from activist groups. use of the company’s products is regularly challenged by activist groups in many jurisdictions under a multitude of federal and state statutes, including fifra, the food quality protection act, endangered species act, and the clean water act, to name a few. these challenges typically take the form of lawsuits or administrative proceedings against the usepa and/or other federal or state agencies, the filing of amicus briefs in pending actions, the introduction of legislation that is inimical to the company’s interests, and/or adverse comments made in response to public comment invited by usepa in the course of registration, re-registration or label expansion. the company spends considerable resources anticipating and defending these challenges. while we have had some success in maintaining the continued uses of many of our products in the face of this onslaught, it is possible that one or more of these challenges could succeed, resulting in a material adverse effect upon one or more of our products. the company’s business may be adversely affected by cyclical and seasonal effects. the chemical industry in general is cyclical and demands for its products tend to be seasonal. seasonal usage follows varying agricultural seasonal patterns, weather conditions and weather related pressure from pests, and customer marketing programs and requirements. weather patterns can have an impact on the company’s operations. the end user of some of its products may, because of weather patterns, delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting season, which may result in a reduction of the use of some products and therefore may reduce our revenues and profitability. there can be no assurance that the company will adequately address any adverse seasonal effects. the company faces competition in certain markets from manufacturers of genetically modified seeds. the company faces competition from larger chemical companies that market genetically modified (“gmo”) seeds in certain of the crop protection sectors in which the company competes, particularly that of corn. many growers that have chosen to use gmo seeds have reduced their use of pesticides sold by the company. further, the federally mandated “refuge acre” requirement for corn (which, in the name of preventing pest resistance, required growers using gmo seeds to set aside a percentage of their planting acres for non-gmo seed), has been sharply reduced. there is no guarantee that the company will maintain its market share or pricing levels in sectors that are subject to competition from gmo seed marketers or that federal mandates to set aside acreage for non-gmo seed will continue.   8 table of contents american vanguard corporation and subsidiaries (dollars in thousands, except per share data)   the company faces competition from generic competitors that source product from countries having lower cost structures. the company continues to face competition from competitors that enter the market through making offers to pay data compensation and subsequently sourcing material from countries having low cost structures (typically india and china). these competitors typically operate at thinner gross margins and, with low costs of goods, drive pricing and profitability of subject product lines downward. further, such competitors typically spend little on product stewardship and employ few personnel within the united states. in effect, they tend to commoditize all products which they distribute; that is, they operate by offering the lowest price goods. there is no guarantee that the company will maintain market share over generic competitors or that such competitors will not offer generic versions of the company’s products in the future. the company’s key customers typically carry competing product lines and may be influenced by the company’s larger competitors. a significant portion of the company’s products are sold to national distributors who also carry product lines of competitors that are much larger than the company. typically, revenues from the sales of these competing product lines and related program incentives constitute a greater part of our distributors’ income than do revenues from sales and program incentives arising from the company’s product lines. further, these distributors are often under pressure to market competing product lines in favor of the company’s. in light of these facts, there is no assurance that such customers will market or continue to market our products aggressively or successfully or that the company will be able to influence such customers to purchase our products in favor of those of our competitors. to the extent that capacity utilization is not fully realized at its manufacturing facilities, the company may experience lower profitability. the company has pursued a business strategy of acquiring manufacturing facilities at a steep discount to their replacement value. these acquisitions have enabled the company to be more independent of overseas manufacturers than some of our competitors. while the company endeavors continuously to maximize utilization of these several facilities, our success in these endeavors is dependent upon many factors beyond our control, including fluctuating market conditions, product life cycles, weather conditions, availability of raw materials and regulatory constraints, among other things. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to maximize its utilization of capacity at its manufacturing facilities. to the extent that the company experiences excess manufacturing capacity, it may experience lower profitability. reduced availability and higher prices of raw materials may reduce the company’s profitability and could threaten the viability of some of its products. in the recent past, there has been a material reduction in the number of suppliers of certain important raw materials used by the company in many of its products. certain of these raw materials are available solely from sources overseas or from single sources domestically. in the recent past, the price of these raw materials has fluctuated sharply. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to source some or all of these materials indefinitely or that it will be able to do so at a level of cost that will enable it to maintain its profit margin on its products.   9 table of contents american vanguard corporation and subsidiaries (dollars in thousands, except per share data)   foreign currency and interest rate risk and the use of derivative instruments and hedging activities. the company engages in global business transactions. where possible, the company does business in its functional currency. however, there are certain situations in which the company is unable to transact in its functional currency and engages in agreements that require settlement in a different currency. the company has in place one fixed interest rate swap with the objective of reducing the company’s exposure to movements in the libor rate over time. the hedges are evaluated at the end of each quarter and the effective portions of gains and losses are recorded in other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portions are recorded in current earnings. quarterly variability in factors affecting the company’s business may mean that an individual quarter’s result may not provide a realistic picture of the company’s overall performance. due to elements inherent to the company’s business, such as differing and unpredictable weather patterns, crop growing cycles, changes in sales mix, ordering patterns that may vary in timing, and promotional programs, measuring the company’s performance on a quarterly basis, (gross profit margins on a quarterly basis may vary significantly) even when such comparisons are favorable, is not as meaningful an indicator as full-year comparisons. the primary reason is that the use cycles do not necessarily coincide with financial reporting cycles. the company’s cost structure, the combination of variable revenue streams, and the changing product mixes, result in varying quarterly levels of profitability. dependence on the company’s banking relationship. the company’s main bank is bank of the west, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the french bank, bnp paribas. bank of the west has been the company’s primary bank for more than 30 years. bank of the west is the syndication manager for the company’s loans and acts as the counterparty on the company’s derivative transactions. the company reviews the creditworthiness of its banks on a quarterly basis via both credit agencies and face-to-face meetings with senior management of the banks. management believes that the company has an excellent working relationship with bank of the west and the other financial institutions in the company’s lender group. there is no guarantee, however, that the company’s lenders will be either willing or able to continue lending to the company at such rates and in such amounts as may be necessary to meet the company’s working capital needs. the distribution and sale of the company’s products are subject to prior governmental approvals and thereafter ongoing governmental regulation. the company’s products are subject to laws administered by federal, state and foreign governments, including regulations requiring registration, approval and labeling of its products. the labeling requirements restrict the use of and type of application for our products. more stringent restrictions could make our products less desirable, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. substantially all of the company’s products are subject to the usepa registration and re-registration requirements, and are conditionally registered in accordance with fifra. such registration requirements are based, among other things, on data demonstrating that the product will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the environment when used according to approved label directions. all states where any of the company’s products are used also require registration before they can be marketed or used in that state. governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific data requirements be performed on the company’s products. the company, on its behalf and in joint efforts with other registrants, have and are currently furnishing certain required data relative to its products. there can be no assurance, however, the epa will not request certain tests or studies be repeated or that more stringent legislation or requirements will not be imposed in the future. the company can provide no assurance that any testing approvals or registrations will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that its resources will be adequate to meet the costs of regulatory compliance.   10 table of contents american vanguard corporation and subsidiaries (dollars in thousands, except per share data)   the company may be unable to integrate product line acquisitions successfully as part of its growth strategy, the company has acquired established product lines from other registrants. the company made four such acquisitions in 2010 alone; these new product lines span markets in dozens of countries. while the company has done considerable due diligence on these assets, there is no guarantee that the company will be able to fully integrate these products into their enterprise, nor is there any guarantee that the company will realize the same kind of revenues or profits that had historically been derived from these product lines by predecessor owners. the manufacturing of the company’s products is subject to governmental regulations. the company currently operates three manufacturing facilities—in los angeles, california; axis, alabama; and marsing, idaho—and owns and has manufacturing services provided in a fourth facility in hannibal, missouri (the “facilities”). the facilities operate under the terms and conditions imposed by required licenses and permits by state and local authorities. the manufacturing of key ingredients for certain of the company’s products occurs at the facilities. an inability to renew or maintain a license or permit or a significant increase in the fees for such licenses or permits could impede the company’s access to key ingredients and increase the cost of production, which, in turn, would materially and adversely affect the company’s ability to provide its products in a timely and affordable manner. adverse results in pending legal and regulatory proceedings could have adverse effects on the company’s business. the company is currently, and may from time to time, be involved in legal and regulatory proceedings, (including, for example, product liability claims). a successful claim that is not insured may require the company to pay substantial amounts in damages. such a liability could have a material adverse effect upon the company’s financial and operating results. for discussion on pending legal claims, please see item 3 “legal proceedings” below. the company relies on intellectual property that it may be unable to protect, or may be found to infringe the rights of others. the company’s proprietary product formulations are protected, to the extent possible, as trade secrets, and, to a lesser extent, by patents and trademarks. most of the established products that the company has acquired that were patented are currently “off patent” because the patents have expired. the company can provide no assurance that the way it protects its proprietary rights will be adequate or that its competitors will not independently develop similar or competing products. further, the company can provide no assurance that it is not infringing other parties’ rights. any claims could require the company to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property, or acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of asserted infringement. the company relies on key executives in large part for its success. the company’s success is highly dependent upon the efforts and abilities of its executive officers. the loss of the services of one or more key executive officers could have a material adverse effect upon the company’s financial and operating results. further, there is no guarantee that the company will be able to retain or to continue to attract qualified executives.   11 table of contents american vanguard corporation and subsidiaries (dollars in thousands, except per share data)   the company is dependent on a limited number of customers, which makes us vulnerable to the continued relationship with and financial health of those customers. in 2010, three customers accounted for 55% of the company’s sales. the company’s future prospects will depend on the continued business of such customers and on our continued status as a qualified supplier to such customers. the company cannot guarantee that our current significant customers will continue to buy products from us at current levels. the loss of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company’s business may be adversely affected by terrorist activities. the company’s business depends on the free flow of products and services through the channels of commerce. recently, in response to terrorists’ activities and threats aimed at the united states, transportation, mail, financial and other services have been slowed or stopped altogether. further delays or stoppages in transportation, mail, financial or other services could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, the company may experience an increase in operating costs, such as costs for transportation, insurance and security as a result of the activities and potential activities. the company may also experience delays in receiving payments from counterparties that may have been affected by the terrorist activities and potential activities. the u.s. economy in general is being adversely affected by the terrorist activities and potential activities and any economic downturn could adversely impact results of operations, impair the ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely affect the ability to grow the business.   item 1b. unresolved