item 1a. risk factors the regulatory climate has grown increasingly challenging to the company’s interests both domestically and internationally—various agencies within the u.s. government continue to exercise increased scrutiny in permitting continued uses (or the expansion of such uses) of older chemistries, including many of the company’s products and, in some cases, have initiated or entertained challenges to these uses. the challenge of the regulatory climate is even more pronounced in certain other geographical regions, most especially the european union and brazil, where the company faces resistance to the continued use of certain of its products. there is no guarantee that this climate will change in the near term, nor is there any guarantee that the company will be able to maintain or expand the uses of many of its products in the face of these regulatory challenges. use of the company’s products is subject to continuing challenges from activist groups—use of agrochemical products, including the company’s products is regularly challenged by activist groups in many jurisdictions under a multitude of federal and state statutes, including fifra, the food quality protection act, endangered species act, and the clean water act, to name a few. these challenges typically take the form of lawsuits or administrative proceedings against the usepa and/or other federal or state agencies, the filing of amicus briefs in pending actions, the introduction of legislation that is inimical to the company’s interests, and/or adverse comments made in response to public comment invited by usepa in the course of registration, re-registration or label expansion. it is possible that one or more of these challenges could succeed, resulting in a material adverse effect upon one or more of our products. the distribution and sale of the company’s products are subject to prior governmental approvals and thereafter ongoing governmental regulation—the company’s products are subject to laws administered by federal, state and foreign governments, including regulations requiring registration, approval and labeling of its products. the labeling requirements restrict the use of and type of application for our products. more stringent restrictions could make our products less available, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. substantially all of the company’s products are subject to the usepa registration and re-registration requirements, and are conditionally registered in accordance with fifra. such registration requirements are based, among other things, on data demonstrating that the product will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the environment when used according to approved label directions. all states where any of the company’s products are used also require registration before they can be marketed or used in that state. governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific data requirements be performed on   6 table of contents american vanguard corporation and subsidiaries (dollars in thousands, except per share data)   the company’s products. the company, on its behalf and also in joint efforts with other registrants, has and is currently furnishing certain required data relative to its products. there can be no assurance, however, that the usepa will not request that certain tests or studies be repeated or that more stringent legislation or requirements will not be imposed in the future. the company can provide no assurance that any testing approvals or registrations will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that its resources will be adequate to meet the costs of regulatory compliance. the manufacturing of the company’s products is subject to governmental regulations—the company currently owns and operates three manufacturing facilities in los angeles, california; axis, alabama; and marsing, idaho and owns and has manufacturing services provided in a fourth facility in hannibal, missouri (the “facilities”). the facilities operate under the terms and conditions imposed by required licenses and permits by state and local authorities. the manufacturing of key ingredients for certain of the company’s products occurs at the facilities. an inability to renew or maintain a license or permit or a significant increase in the fees for such licenses or permits could impede the company’s manufacture of one or more of its products and/or increase the cost of production; this, in turn, would materially and adversely affect the company’s ability to provide its products in a timely and affordable manner. the company faces competition in certain markets from manufacturers of genetically modified seeds—the company faces competition from larger companies that market genetically modified (“gmo”) seeds in certain of the crop protection sectors in which the company competes, particularly that of corn. many growers that have chosen to use gmo seeds have reduced their use of the types of pesticides sold by the company. further, the federally mandated “refuge acre” requirement for corn (which, in the name of preventing pest resistance, required growers using gmo seeds to set aside a percentage of their planting acres for non-gmo seed), has been sharply reduced. there is no guarantee that the company will maintain its market share or pricing levels in sectors that are subject to competition from gmo seed marketers or that federal mandates to set aside acreage for non-gmo seed will continue. the company is dependent upon certain sole source suppliers for certain of its active ingredients—in conjunction with the purchase and/or licensing of various product lines (including mocap, nemacur, impact® and force®), the company has been required by sellers/licensors to enter into multi-year supply arrangements under which such counterparties are the sole source of either active ingredients and/or formulated end-use product. in some cases, the manufacturer has been unable to deliver the volume of product necessary to meet the company’s demand. further, certain manufacturers have expressed a desire to discontinue production of such goods earlier than anticipated. in one case, the manufacturer has entered the market as a competitor. there is no guarantee that these sole source manufacturers will be willing or able to supply these products to the company reliably, continuously and at the levels anticipated by the company or required by the market. in addition, while the company is making efforts to transfer production of certain of these products to its own facilities, there is no guarantee that these initiatives will be successful or that they will be completed in a timely fashion so as to permit the company to meet market demand in the short to mid-term. if these sources prove to be unreliable and the company is not able to supplant or otherwise second source these manufacturers, it is possible that the company will not realize its projected sales, which, in turn, could adversely affect the company’s results of operation. the company may be subject to environmental liabilities—while the company expends substantial funds to minimize the discharge of materials into the environment and to comply with governmental regulations relating to protection of the environment and its workforce, federal and state authorities may nevertheless seek fines and penalties for violation of the various laws and governmental regulations. further, these various governmental agencies could, among other things, impose liability on the company for cleaning up the damage resulting from the release of pesticides and other agents into the environment. in addition, while the company continually adapts its manufacturing processes to the environmental control standards of regulatory authorities, it cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous or regulated materials. in the event of such contamination or injury, the company may be held liable for significant damages or fines. in the event that such damages or fines are assessed, it could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operation. the company’s business may be adversely affected by cyclical and seasonal effects—demand for the company’s products tends to be seasonal. seasonal usage follows varying agricultural seasonal patterns, weather conditions and weather related pressure from pests, and customer marketing programs and requirements. weather patterns can have an impact on the company’s operations. for example, the end user of its products may, because of weather patterns, delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting season, which may result in a reduction of the use of some products and therefore may reduce the company’s revenues and profitability. there can be no assurance that the company will adequately address any adverse seasonal effects. the company faces competition from generic competitors that source product from countries having lower cost structures—the company continues to face competition from competitors that may enter the market through making offers to pay data compensation and then subsequently may source material from countries having lower cost structures   7 table of contents american vanguard corporation and subsidiaries (dollars in thousands, except per share data)   (typically india and china). these competitors typically tend to operate at thinner gross margins and, with low costs of goods, can drive pricing and profitability of subject product lines downward. further, such competitors typically spend little on product stewardship and employ few personnel within the united states. in effect, they may attempt to commoditize all products which they distribute; that is, they operate by offering the lowest price goods. there is no guarantee that the company will maintain market share over generic competitors or that such competitors will not offer generic versions of the company’s products in the future. the company’s key customers typically carry competing product lines and may be influenced by the company’s larger competitors—a significant portion of the company’s products are sold to national distributors in the united states, who also carry product lines of competitors that are much larger than the company. typically, revenues from the sales of these competing product lines and related program incentives constitute a greater part of our distributors’ income than do revenues from sales and program incentives arising from the company’s product lines. further, these distributors are often under pressure to market competing product lines in favor of the company’s. in light of these facts, there is no assurance that such customers will continue to market our products aggressively or successfully or that the company will be able to influence such customers to continue to purchase our products instead of those of our competitors. to the extent that capacity utilization is not fully realized at its manufacturing facilities, the company may experience lower profitability—the company has pursued a business strategy of acquiring manufacturing facilities at a steep discount to their replacement value. these acquisitions have enabled the company to be more independent of overseas manufacturers than some of our competitors. while the company endeavors continuously to maximize utilization of these several facilities, our success in these endeavors is dependent upon many factors beyond our control, including fluctuating market conditions, product life cycles, weather conditions, availability of raw materials and regulatory constraints, among other things. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to maximize its utilization of capacity at its manufacturing facilities. to the extent that the company experiences excess manufacturing capacity, it may experience lower profitability. reduced availability and higher prices of raw materials may reduce the company’s profitability and could threaten the viability of some of its products—in the recent past, there has been a material reduction in the number of suppliers of certain important raw materials used by the company in many of its products. certain of these raw materials are available solely from sources overseas or from single sources domestically. in the recent past, the price of these raw materials has fluctuated sharply. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to source some or all of these materials indefinitely or that it will be able to do so at a level of cost that will enable it to maintain its profit margin on its products. foreign currency and interest rate risk and the use of derivative instruments and hedging activities—the company engages in global business transactions. where possible, the company does business in its functional currency. however, there are certain situations in which the company is unable to transact in its functional currency and engages in agreements that require settlement in a different currency. the company may enter into derivative instruments to manage foreign currency risk of these agreements; in other words, it may, from time to time establish a forward exchange rate at the point of placing a purchase order and thereby insure the company against movement in the exchange rate. in addition, the company may use interest rate derivatives to manage interest rate expense generated by variable rate debt. the company has in place one fixed interest rate swap with the objective of reducing the company’s exposure to movements in the libor rate over time. this is required as a condition of the company’s senior credit facilities agreement. dependence on the company’s banking relationship—the company’s main bank is bank of the west, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the french bank, bnp paribas. bank of the west has been the company’s primary bank for more than 30 years. bank of the west is the syndication manager for the company’s loans and acts as the counterparty on the company’s derivative transactions. the company reviews the creditworthiness of its banks on a quarterly basis via credit agencies and also has face-to-face meetings with senior management of the banks. management believes that the company has an excellent working relationship with bank of the west and the other financial institutions in the company’s lender group. in light of the uncertainties in global financial markets, there is no guarantee, however, that the company’s lenders will be either willing or able to continue lending to the company at such rates and in such amounts as may be necessary to meet the company’s working capital needs. the company is dependent on a limited number of customers, which makes it vulnerable to the continued relationship with and financial health of those customers—in 2012, three customers accounted for 53% of the company’s sales. the company’s future prospects will depend on the continued business of such customers and on our continued status as a qualified supplier to such customers. the company cannot guarantee that our current significant customers will continue to buy products from us at current levels. the loss of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition and results of operation.   8 table of contents american vanguard corporation and subsidiaries (dollars in thousands, except per share data)   item 1b. unresolved