item 1a.   risk factors   our ability to become profitable and our ability to continue to fund our obligations on an ongoing basis will depend on a number of risk factors, many of which are largely beyond our control.   as a result of significant losses in recent years, our financial condition has been materially weakened.   we incurred significant losses in recent years, which has materially weakened our financial condition. we lost $893 million in 2005, $781 million in 2004, $1.2 billion in 2003, $3.5 billion in 2002 and $1.8 billion in 2001. although we earned a profit of $456 million in 2007 and $189 million in 2006, we lost $2.1 billion in 2008 (which included a $1.2 billion impairment charge), and, primarily as a result of very weak demand for air travel driven by the severe downturn in the global economy, we lost $1.5 billion in 2009 and $471 million in 2010. because of our weakened financial condition, we are vulnerable both to the impact of unexpected events (such as terrorist attacks) and to deterioration of the operating environment (such as a significant increase in jet fuel prices or significant increased competition).   the severe global economic downturn resulted in very weak demand for air travel and lower investment asset returns, which has had and could continue to have a significant negative impact on us.   although demand for air travel has improved as the global economy continues to recover from the recent severe downturn, demand continues to be weak by historical standards. we began to experience weakening demand late in 2008, and this weakness continued into 2010. we reduced capacity in 2008, and in the first half of 2009 we announced additional reductions to our capacity plan. in connection with these capacity reductions, the company incurred special charges related to aircraft, employee reductions and certain other charges. demand for air travel may weaken if the global economy does not continue to recover. no assurance can be given that capacity adjustments or other steps we may take in response to changes in demand will be successful. capacity reductions or other steps might result in additional special charges in the future. further, other carriers may make capacity adjustments which may reduce the expected benefits of any steps we may take to respond to changes in demand. industry-wide capacity may increase to the extent the economy continues to recover from the global recession. if industry capacity increases, and if consumer demand does not continue to pace those increases, we, and the airline industry as a whole, could be negatively impacted.   the economic downturn has resulted in broadly lower investment asset returns and values. our pension assets suffered a material decrease in value in 2008 related to broader stock market declines, which resulted in higher pension expense in 2009 and 2010 and will result in higher pension expense and higher required contributions in future years. in addition, under certain circumstances, we may be required to maintain cash reserves under our credit card processing agreements and to post cash collateral on fuel hedging contracts. these issues individually or collectively may have a material adverse impact on our liquidity. also, disruptions in the capital markets and other sources of funding may make it impossible for us to obtain necessary additional funding or make the cost of that funding prohibitive.   we face numerous challenges as we seek to maintain sufficient liquidity, and we will need to raise substantial additional funds. we may not be able to raise those funds, or to do so on acceptable terms.   in the next several years, we have significant debt, lease and other obligations, including significant pension funding obligations. we also expect to make substantial capital expenditures during that time. for example, in 2011, we will be required to make approximately $2.5 billion of principal payments on long-term debt and capital leases, and we expect to spend approximately $1.6 billion on capital expenditures, including aircraft commitments. in addition, in 2011, we are required to contribute approximately $520 million to our pension plans. moreover, the global economic downturn, rising fuel prices, the potential obligation to post reserves under credit card processing agreements and the potential obligation to post cash collateral on fuel hedging contracts, among other things, have negatively impacted, and may in the future negatively impact, our liquidity. to meet our commitments and to maintain sufficient liquidity as we continue to implement our revenue enhancement and cost reduction initiatives, we will need continued access to substantial additional funding. moreover, while we have arranged financings that, subject to certain terms and conditions (including, in the case of financing arrangements covering a significant 10   number of aircraft, a condition that, at the time of borrowing, we have a certain amount of unrestricted cash and short term investments), cover all of our aircraft delivery commitments through 2011, we will continue to need to raise substantial additional funds to meet our commitments.   our ability to obtain future financing is limited by the value of our unencumbered assets. almost all of our aircraft assets (including aircraft eligible for the benefits of section 1110) are encumbered as a result of financing activity in recent years. this financing activity has significantly reduced the quantity of our assets which could be used as collateral in future financing. also, the market value of our aircraft assets has declined in recent years, and may continue to decline. in addition, many of the other financing sources traditionally available to us may be difficult to access, and no assurance can be given as to the amount of financing available to us.   since the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 (the “terrorist attacks”), our credit ratings have been lowered to significantly below investment grade. these reductions have increased our borrowing costs and otherwise adversely affected borrowing terms, and limited borrowing options. additional reductions in our credit ratings might have other effects on us, such as further increasing borrowing or other costs or further restricting our ability to raise funds.   a number of other factors, including our financial results in recent years, our substantial indebtedness, the difficult revenue environment we face, our reduced credit ratings, recent historically high fuel prices, and the financial difficulties experienced in the airline industry, adversely affect the availability and terms of funding for us. in addition, the global economic downturn resulted in greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, and substantially more limited availability of funding. as a result of these and other factors, although we believe we have or can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and obligations, there can be no assurances to that effect. an inability to obtain necessary additional funding on acceptable terms would have a material adverse impact on us and on our ability to sustain our operations.   we could be required to maintain reserves under our credit card processing agreements, which could materially adversely impact our liquidity.   american has agreements with a number of credit card companies and processors to accept credit cards for the sale of air travel and other services. under certain of these agreements, the related credit card processor may hold back a reserve from american’s credit card receivables following the occurrence of certain events, including the failure of american to maintain certain levels of liquidity (as specified in each agreement).   under such agreements, the amount of the reserve that may be required generally is based on the credit card processor’s exposure to the company under the applicable agreement and, in the case of a reserve required because of american’s failure to maintain a certain level of liquidity, the amount of such liquidity. as of december 31, 2010, the company was not required to maintain any reserve under such agreements. if circumstances were to occur that would allow the credit card processor to require the company to maintain a reserve, the company’s liquidity would be negatively impacted.   our initiatives to generate additional revenues and to reduce our costs may not be adequate or successful.   as we seek to improve our financial condition, we must continue to take steps to generate additional revenues and to reduce our costs. although we have a number of initiatives underway to address our cost and revenue challenges, some of these initiatives involve changes to our business which we may be unable to implement. in addition, it has become increasingly difficult to identify and implement significant revenue enhancement and cost savings initiatives. the adequacy and ultimate success of our initiatives to generate additional revenues and reduce our costs cannot be assured. moreover, whether our initiatives will be adequate or successful depends in large measure on factors beyond our control, notably the overall industry environment, including passenger demand, yield and industry capacity growth, and fuel prices. it will be very difficult for us to continue to fund our obligations on an ongoing basis, and to return to profitability, if the overall industry revenue environment does not continue to improve or if fuel prices were to increase and persist for an extended period at high levels. 11   we may be adversely affected by increases in fuel prices, and we would be adversely affected by disruptions in the supply of fuel.   our results are very significantly affected by the cost, price volatility and the availability of jet fuel, which are in turn affected by a number of factors beyond our control. due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, we may not be able to pass on increased fuel prices to customers by increasing fares. although we had some success in raising fares and imposing fuel surcharges in reaction to high fuel prices, these fare increases and surcharges did not keep pace with the extraordinary increases in the price of fuel that occurred in 2007 and 2008. although fuel prices have abated considerably from the record high prices recorded in july 2008, they have steadily increased since the first quarter of 2009 and remain high and extremely volatile by historical standards. furthermore, reduced demand or increased fare competition, or both, and resulting lower revenues may offset any potential benefit of any reductions in fuel prices.   while we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in fuel availability, dependence on foreign imports of crude oil, limited refining capacity and the possibility of changes in government policy on jet fuel production, transportation and marketing make it impossible to predict the future availability of jet fuel. if there are additional outbreaks of hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas or elsewhere, or a reduction in refining capacity (due to natural disasters or weather events, for example), or governmental limits on the production or sale of jet fuel (including as a consequence of increased environmental regulation), there could be a reduction in the supply of jet fuel and significant increases in the cost of jet fuel. major reductions in the availability of jet fuel or significant increases in its cost would have a material adverse impact on us.   we have a large number of older aircraft in our fleet, and these aircraft are not as fuel efficient as more recent models of aircraft. we believe it is imperative that we continue to execute our fleet renewal plans. however, there will be significant delays in the deliveries of the boeing 787-9 aircraft we currently have on order.   our aviation fuel purchase contracts generally do not provide meaningful price protection. while we seek to manage the risk of fuel price increases by using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that, at any given time, we will have derivatives in place to provide any particular level of protection against increased fuel costs. in addition, a deterioration of our financial position could negatively affect our ability to enter into derivative contracts in the future. moreover, declines in fuel prices below the levels established in derivative contracts may require us to post material amounts of cash collateral to secure the loss positions on such contracts, and if such contracts close when fuel prices are below the applicable levels, we would be required to make payments to close such contracts; these payments would be treated as additional fuel expense.   we could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to resolve favorably our pending litigation with certain global distribution systems (gdss) and business discussions with certain on-line travel agents.   we are currently involved in litigation with certain gdss and in business discussions with certain on-line travel agents. an adverse outcome in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our level of bookings, business and results of operations. see “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations” — gds discussion.” in addition, our contracts with the gdss operated by sabre, travelport and amadeus expire in 2011. we could be adversely affected if we are unable to renegotiate contract renewals on acceptable terms.   our indebtedness and other obligations are substantial and could adversely affect our business and liquidity.   we have and will continue to have significant amounts of indebtedness, obligations to make future payments on aircraft equipment and property leases, and obligations under aircraft purchase agreements, as well as a high proportion of debt to equity capital. we expect to incur substantial additional debt (including secured debt) and 12   lease obligations in the future. we also have substantial pension funding obligations. our substantial indebtedness and other obligations have important consequences. for example, they:     •  limit our ability to obtain additional funding for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and general corporate purposes, and adversely affect the terms on which such funding can be obtained;     •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness and other obligations, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes;     •  make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and catastrophic external events; and     •  limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.   our business is affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, and our results of operations tend to be volatile and fluctuate due to seasonality.   our business and our results of operations are affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, including, among others:     •  actual or potential changes in international, national, regional and local economic, business and financial conditions, including recession, inflation, higher interest rates, wars, terrorist attacks or political instability;     •  changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns or demographic trends;     •  changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, changes in airline alliance affiliations and other factors;     •  actual or potential disruptions to the air traffic control systems;     •  increases in costs of safety, security and environmental measures;     •  outbreaks of diseases that affect travel behavior; and     •  weather and natural disasters.   as a result, our results of operations tend to be volatile and subject to rapid and unexpected change. in addition, due to generally greater demand for air travel during the summer, our revenues in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year.   the airline industry is fiercely competitive and may undergo further consolidation or changes in industry alliances, and we are subject to increasing competition.   service over almost all of our routes is highly competitive and fares remain at low levels by historical standards. we face vigorous, and, in some cases, increasing, competition from major domestic airlines, national, regional, all-cargo and charter carriers, foreign air carriers, low-cost carriers and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation. we also face increasing and significant competition from marketing/operational alliances formed by our competitors. competition with foreign air carriers and with such marketing/operational alliances has been increasing in recent years in part due to the adoption of liberalized open skies aviation agreements between the united states and an increasing number of countries around the world. moreover, the percentage of routes on which we compete with carriers having substantially lower operating costs than ours has grown significantly over time, and we now compete with low-cost carriers over a very large part of our network. our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure. if we cannot do so, then our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected.   certain airline alliances have been, or may in the future be, granted immunity from antitrust regulations by governmental authorities for specific areas of cooperation, such as joint pricing decisions. to the extent alliances formed by the company’s competitors can undertake activities that are not available to the company, the company’s ability to effectively compete may be hindered. 13   pricing decisions are significantly affected by competition from other airlines. fare discounting by competitors historically has had a negative effect on our financial results because we must generally match competitors’ fares, since failing to match would result in even less revenue. we have faced increased competition from carriers with simplified fare structures, which are generally preferred by travelers. any fare reduction or fare simplification initiative may not be offset by increases in passenger traffic, reduction in cost or changes in the mix of traffic that would improve yields. moreover, decisions by our competitors that increase or reduce overall industry capacity, or capacity dedicated to a particular domestic or foreign region, market or route, can have a material impact on related fare levels.   there have been numerous mergers and acquisitions within the airline industry and numerous changes in industry alliances. southwest airlines and airtran airways announced during 2010 plans to merge, and the recent mergers of united air lines, inc. with continental airlines, inc. and delta airlines with northwest airlines corporation have resulted in the formation of larger competitors than the company with more extensive networks than the company. we are seeking to address these competitive challenges with our cornerstone market and alliance strategies; however, there can be no assurances as to the level of success of these strategies.   in the future, there may be additional mergers and acquisitions, and changes in airline alliances, including those in which the company may participate and those that may be undertaken by others. any airline industry consolidation or changes in airline alliances, including oneworld, could substantially alter the competitive landscape and result in changes in our corporate or business strategy. we regularly assess and explore the potential for consolidation in our industry and changes in airline alliances, our strategic position and ways to enhance our competitiveness, including the possibilities for our participation in merger activity. consolidation involving other participants in our industry could result in the formation of one or more airlines with greater financial resources, more extensive networks, and/or lower cost structures than exist currently, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and adversely affect our business and results of operations. for similar reasons, changes in airline alliances could have a similar impact on us.   in 2008, we entered into a joint business agreement and related marketing arrangements with british airways and iberia, providing for commercial cooperation on flights between north america and most countries in europe, pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, expanded codesharing, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity, and cooperation in other areas. in july 2010, american obtained clearance from the european commission (“ec”) and approval by the department of transportation (“dot”) for antitrust immunity (“ati”) for its planned cooperation with british airways, iberia, finnair and royal jordanian. regulatory conditions for ati approval for the british airways, iberia, finnair and royal jordanian cooperative agreement include a collective obligation of the company, british airways and iberia to lease to other carriers up to seven takeoff and landing slot pairs at london heathrow airport and up to three john f. kennedy airport operational authorities, depending on market conditions. american began implementation of the jba with british airways and iberia and expanded cooperation with finnair and royal jordanian in october 2010. no assurances can be given as to any arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits that we may derive from such arrangements.   in february 2010, american and jal announced the decision to strengthen their relationship. the carriers, both members of the oneworld alliance, jointly applied to dot for ati on certain routes, and jointly notified the ministry of land infrastructure, transport and tourism of japan of the proposed cooperation. as a part of the application, american and jal entered into a joint business agreement which will enhance their scope of cooperation on routes between north america and asia through adjustments to their respective networks, flight schedules, and other business activities. this, in turn, will allow both carriers to better complement each other’s operations and to develop and offer competitive products and quality service to their customers. in november 2010, american obtained approval by dot for ati for its planned cooperation with jal. implementation of the jba with jal is subject to successful negotiation of certain detailed financial and commercial arrangements and other approvals. american expects to begin implementing the jba with jal in 2011. no assurances can be given as to any arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits that we may derive from such arrangements.   any plans to enter into or expand ati joint business agreements or similar arrangements, including implementation of the joint business agreements referred to above, are subject to various conditions, including various u.s. and foreign regulatory approvals, successful negotiation of certain detailed financial and commercial 14   arrangements, and other approvals. governmental entities from which such approvals must be obtained, including dot and foreign governmental authorities or entities such as the eu, have imposed or may impose requirements or limitations as a condition of granting any such approvals, such as requiring divestiture of routes, gates, slots or other assets. no assurances can be given as to any arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits we may derive from such arrangements.   we compete with reorganized carriers, which results in competitive disadvantages for us.   we must compete with air carriers that have reorganized under the protection of chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code in recent years, including united, delta and u.s. airways. it is possible that other significant competitors may seek to reorganize in or out of chapter 11.   successful reorganizations by other carriers present us with competitors with significantly lower operating costs and stronger financial positions derived from renegotiated labor, supply, and financing contracts. these competitive pressures may limit our ability to adequately price our services, may require us to further reduce our operating costs, and could have a material adverse impact on us.   fares are at low levels and our reduced pricing power adversely affects our ability to achieve adequate pricing, especially with respect to business travel.   our passenger yield (on an inflation-adjusted basis) remains low by historical standards. we believe that this is due in large part to a corresponding decline in our pricing power. our reduced pricing power is the product of several factors including: greater cost sensitivity on the part of travelers (particularly business travelers); pricing transparency resulting from the use of the internet; greater competition from low-cost carriers and from carriers that have reorganized in recent years under the protection of chapter 11; other carriers being better hedged against rising fuel costs and able to better absorb high jet fuel prices; fare simplification efforts by certain carriers; and the economy. we believe that this pricing environment could persist indefinitely.   our corporate or business strategy may change.   in light of the rapid changes in the airline industry, we evaluate our assets on an ongoing basis with a view to maximizing their value to us and determining which are core to our operations. we also regularly evaluate our corporate and business strategies, and they are influenced by factors beyond our control, including changes in the competitive landscape we face. our corporate and business strategies are, therefore, subject to change.   amr is considering, and may engage in discussions with third parties regarding, the divestiture of amr eagle and other separation transactions, and may decide to proceed with one or more such transactions. there can be no assurance that amr will complete any separation transactions or that any announced plans or transactions will be consummated, and no prediction can be made as to the impact of any such transactions on stockholder value or on us. see “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations” — recent events.”   our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which can result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages. in particular, recently enacted and possible future environmental regulations may adversely affect our business and financial results.   airlines are subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. many of these requirements result in significant costs. for example, the faa from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft. in addition, the faa has recently proposed regulations that would affect crewmember hiring and crewmember rest and duty requirements. it is unknown at this time whether, and in what form, these regulations may be promulgated. however, if these regulations were promulgated in their current form, we believe they could have a material adverse impact on the company. in addition, as a result of heightened levels of concern regarding data privacy, the company is subject to an increasing number of domestic and foreign laws regarding the privacy and security of passenger and employee data. 15   compliance with regulatory requirements drives significant expenditures and has in the past, and may in the future, cause disruptions to our operations. in addition, the ability of u.s. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the u.s. and foreign governments may be amended from time to time (such as through the adoption of an open skies policy), or because appropriate slots or facilities are not made available. any such change could adversely impact the value of our international route authorities and related assets.   moreover, additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been enacted from time to time that have significantly increased the costs of airline operations, reduced the demand for air travel or restricted the way we can conduct our business. for example, the atsa, which became law in 2001, mandated the federalization of certain airport security procedures and resulted in the imposition of additional security requirements on airlines.   the results of our operations, demand for air travel, and the manner in which we conduct our business each may be affected by changes in law and future actions taken by governmental agencies, including:     •  changes in law which affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports, or the types of fees that can be charged to passengers;     •  the granting and timing of certain governmental approvals (including foreign government approvals) needed for codesharing alliances and other arrangements with other airlines;     •  restrictions on competitive practices (for example court orders, or agency regulations or orders, that would curtail an airline’s ability to respond to a competitor);     •  the adoption of new passenger security standards or regulations that impact customer service standards (for example, “passenger bill of rights”);     •  restrictions on airport operations, such as restrictions on the use of takeoff and landing slots at airports or the auction or reallocation of slot rights currently or previously held by us; or     •  the adoption of more restrictive locally imposed noise restrictions.   in addition, the u.s. air traffic control (atc) system, which is operated by the faa, is not successfully managing the growing demand for u.s. air travel. u.s. airlines carry about 750 million passengers a year and are forecast to accommodate a billion passengers annually by 2021. air traffic controllers rely on outdated technologies that routinely overwhelm the system and compel airlines to fly inefficient, indirect routes. we support a common sense approach to atc modernization that would allocate costs to all atc system users in proportion to the services they consume. reauthorization of legislation that funds the faa, which includes proposals regarding upgrades to the atc system, is under consideration in congress. it is uncertain whether such legislation will become law. in the meantime, faa funding continues under temporary periodic extensions.   many aspects of our operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations. concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, may result in the imposition of additional legislation or regulation. the eu has adopted a directive under which each eu member state is required to extend the existing eu emissions trading scheme (ets) to aviation. this will require the company to annually submit emission allowances in order to operate flights to and from eu member states in january 2012 and thereafter, including flights between the u.s. and eu member states. in december 2009, the ata, joined by american, continental and united, filed a legal action in the united kingdom challenging the implementation of the eu ets as applied to aviation. we believe that non-eu governments are also likely to consider formal challenges to the eu ets as applied to aviation. it is not clear whether the eu ets will withstand such challenges. however, unless interim relief is granted, we will be required to continue to comply with the eu ets during the pendency of the legal challenges. although the cost of compliance with the eu ets is difficult to predict given the uncertainty of a number of variables, such as the number and price of emission allowances we may be required to purchase, such costs could be significant.   other legislative or regulatory actions addressing climate change and emissions from aviation that may be taken in the future by the u.s., state or foreign governments or through international treaties may adversely affect our business and financial results. the united nations’ international civil aviation organization (“icao”), for 16   example, recently adopted a resolution identifying certain fuel efficiency goals and emission trading system principles for international aviation, which may provide a basis for such future legislative or regulatory action. climate change legislation was previously introduced in the u.s. congress; such legislation could be re-introduced in the future by the u.s. congress and state legislatures, and could contain provisions affecting the aviation industry. in addition, the epa could seek to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft. it is currently unknown how climate change legislation or regulation, if enacted, would specifically apply to the aviation industry. however, the impact on us of any climate change legislation or regulation is likely to be adverse and related costs of compliance could be significant. such legislation or regulation could result in, among other things, increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, the imposition of requirements to purchase emission offsets or credits, increased aircraft and equipment costs, and restrictions on the growth of airline operations. we continue to evaluate ongoing climate change developments at the international, federal and state levels and assess the potential associated impacts on our business and operations.   we could be adversely affected by conflicts overseas or terrorist attacks.   actual or threatened u.s. military involvement in overseas operations has, on occasion, had an adverse impact on our business, financial position (including access to capital markets) and results of operations, and on the airline industry in general. the continuing conflicts in iraq and afghanistan, or other conflicts or events in the middle east or elsewhere, may result in similar adverse impacts.   the terrorist attacks had a material adverse impact on us. the occurrence of another terrorist attack (whether domestic or international and whether against us or another entity) could again have a material adverse impact on us.   our international operations are subject to economic and political instability and could be adversely affected by numerous events, circumstances or government actions beyond our control.   our current international activities and prospects could be adversely affected by factors such as reversals or delays in the opening of foreign markets, exchange controls, currency and political risks (including changes in exchange rates and currency devaluations), environmental regulation, increases in taxes and fees and changes in international government regulation of our operations, including the inability to obtain or retain needed route authorities and/or slots.   for example, the open skies air services agreement between the u.s. and the eu which took effect in march 2008 provides airlines from the u.s. and eu member states open access to each other’s markets, with freedom of pricing and unlimited rights to fly beyond the u.s. and any airport in the eu including london’s heathrow airport. the agreement has resulted in american facing increased competition in these markets, including heathrow. in addition, an open skies air services agreement between the u.s. and japan that provides airlines from the u.s. and japan open access to each other’s markets took effect in november 2010.   we could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior.   in the second quarter of 2009, there was an outbreak of the h1n1 virus which had an adverse impact throughout our network but primarily on our operations to and from mexico. in 2003, there was an outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars), which had an adverse impact primarily on our asia operations. in addition, in the past there have been concerns about outbreaks or potential outbreaks of other diseases, such as avian flu. any outbreak of a disease (including an additional outbreak of the h1n1 virus) that affects travel behavior could have a material adverse impact on us. in addition, outbreaks of disease could result in quarantines of our personnel or an inability to access facilities or our aircraft, which could adversely affect our operations.   our labor costs are higher than those of our competitors.   wages, salaries and benefits constitute a significant percentage of our total operating expenses. in 2010, they constituted approximately 31 percent of our total operating expenses. all of the major hub-and-spoke carriers with whom american competes have achieved significant labor cost savings through or outside of bankruptcy proceedings. we believe american’s labor costs are higher than those of its primary competitors, and it is unclear 17   how long this labor cost disadvantage may persist. these higher labor costs may adversely affect our ability to achieve and sustain profitability while competing with other airlines with lower labor costs. additionally, we cannot predict the outcome of our ongoing negotiations with our unionized work groups. significant increases in pay and benefits resulting from changes to our collective bargaining agreements could have a material adverse effect on us.   we could be adversely affected if we are unable to have satisfactory relations with any unionized or other employee work group.   our business is labor intensive. to the extent that we are unable to have satisfactory relations with any unionized or other employee work group, our operations and our ability to execute our strategic plans could be adversely affected. in addition, any disruption by an employee work group (e.g., sick-out, slowdown, full or partial strike, or other job action) may materially adversely affect our operations and impair our financial performance.   in april 2003, american reached agreements (the “labor agreements”) with each of its three major unions, the apa, the twu) and the apfa. the labor agreements substantially moderated the labor costs associated with the employees represented by the unions. in conjunction with the labor agreements, american also implemented various changes in the pay plans and benefits for non-unionized personnel. the labor agreements became amendable in 2008 (although the parties agreed that they could begin the negotiations process as early as 2006). american has been in negotiations with the apa since september 20 2006, the twu since may 11, 2006 (with respect to dispatchers), and since november 7, 2007 (with respect to the other six groups at american represented by the twu), and with the apfa since june 2008 (expedited negotiations) and september 10, 2008 (standard negotiations), to amend their respective labor agreements. at this time, all such negotiations are mediated negotiations under the auspices of the national mediation board (“nmb”). nmb mediation with the apa began on may 6, 2008, with the twu (with respect to the dispatchers) on october 28, 2008, with the other twu groups on various dates in 2009, and with the apfa on january 22, 2009. these negotiations are governed by the railway labor act (“rla”), which prescribes no set timetable for the negotiations and mediation process. the negotiations and mediation process in the airline industry typically is slow and sometimes contentious. the rla prohibits the parties from engaging in self-help prior to the exhaustion of the rla’s bargaining process. that process is not exhausted until the nmb has declared the parties are at a bargaining impasse, one or both parties has declined the nmb’s proffer of binding arbitration, and a 30-day cooling off period has expired without the appointment of a presidential emergency board. if we are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups, and the rla’s bargaining process has been fully exhausted, we may be subject to lawful strikes, work stoppages or other job actions.   in may, 2010, american negotiated tentative agreements with several workgroups within the twu, including the maintenance control technician group, the material logistics specialists group and the mechanic and related group. agreements with the twu groups are subject to ratification by the relevant membership of twu, and, while the maintenance control technician group ratified their agreement, the material logistics specialists group and the mechanic and related group tentative agreements were not ratified.   mediated negotiations with the apa, with the apfa and with the twu with respect to groups other than the maintenance control technician group continue. in addition, the apa has filed a number of grievances, lawsuits and complaints, most of which american believes are part of a corporate campaign related to the union’s labor agreement negotiations with american. while american is vigorously defending these disputes, unfavorable outcomes in one or more of them could require american to incur additional costs, change the way it conducts some parts of its business, or otherwise adversely affect us.   increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have an adverse impact on us.   we carry insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to our aircraft. as a result of the terrorist attacks, aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). at the same time, these insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general. while the price of commercial insurance has declined since the period immediately after the terrorist attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further 18   reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to us, or significantly increase its cost, we would be adversely affected.   the u.s. government has agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for u.s. based airlines through september 30, 2011, covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. if the u.s. government were to cease providing such insurance in whole or in part, it is likely that we could obtain comparable coverage in the commercial market, but we could incur substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if such coverage is available at all. if we are unable to obtain adequate war-risk coverage at commercially reasonable rates, we would be adversely affected.   we may be unable to retain key management personnel.   we are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our key management employees, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain them. any inability to retain our key management employees, or attract and retain additional qualified management employees, could have a negative impact on us.   we are increasingly dependent on technology and could be adversely affected by a failure or disruption of our computer, communications or other technology systems.   we are heavily and increasingly dependent on technology to operate our business, reduce our costs and enhance customer service. the computer and communications systems on which we rely could be disrupted due to various events, some of which are beyond our control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment failures, system implementation failures, software failures and computer viruses and hackers. we have taken certain steps to help reduce the risk of some (but not all) of these potential disruptions. there can be no assurance, however, that the measures we have taken are adequate to prevent or remedy disruptions or failures of these systems. any substantial or repeated failure of these systems could impact our operations and customer service, result in the loss of important data, loss of revenues, and increased costs, and generally harm our business. moreover, a failure of certain of our vital systems could limit our ability to operate our flights for an extended period of time, which would have a material adverse impact on our operations and our business. in addition, we will need to continue to make significant investments in technology to pursue initiatives to reduce costs and enhance customer service. if we are unable to make these investments, our business could be negatively impacted.   we are at risk of losses and adverse publicity which might result from an accident involving any of our aircraft.   if one of our aircraft were to be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. the insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. in the event that our insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. in addition, any accident involving an aircraft operated by us could adversely affect the public’s perception of us.   interruptions or disruptions in service at one or more of our primary market airports could have an adverse impact on us.   our business is heavily dependent on our operations at our primary market airports in dallas/ft. worth, chicago, miami, new york city and los angeles. each of these operations includes flights that gather and distribute traffic from markets in the geographic region around the primary market to other major cities. a significant interruption or disruption in service at one or more of our primary markets could adversely impact our operations.   the airline industry is heavily taxed.   the airline industry is subject to extensive government fees and taxation that negatively impact our revenue. the u.s. airline industry is one of the most heavily taxed of all industries. these fees and taxes have grown significantly in the past decade for domestic flights and various u.s. fees and taxes also are assessed on international flights. in addition, the governments of foreign countries in which we operate impose on u.s. airlines, including us, various fees and taxes, and these assessments have been increasing in number and amount in recent years. certain of 19   these fees and taxes must be included in the fares we advertise or quote to our customers. due to the competitive revenue environment, many increases in these fees and taxes have been absorbed by the airline industry rather than being passed on to the passenger. further increases in fees and taxes may reduce demand for air travel, and thus our revenues.   item 1b.   unresolved