item 1a. risk factors our business faces many risks. any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in the form 10-k or our other filings with the securities and exchange commission, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. operational risks architectural segment global economic conditions and the cyclical nature of the commercial construction industry have had and could continue to have an adverse impact on the profitability of this segment. there has traditionally been a lag between the general domestic economy and the commercial construction industry, and an additional approximate eight-month lag as it relates to the products and services for our domestic-based businesses, which represented approximately 99 percent of the annual sales for this segment in fiscal 2011. these architectural segment businesses are primarily impacted by changes in the north american commercial construction industry, including unforeseen delays in project timing, work flow and lower prices. these and other economic conditions could impact the overall commercial construction industry and may adversely impact the markets we serve or the timing of the lag, resulting in lower revenues and earnings. our newly acquired brazilian operation is subject to the economic, political and tax conditions prevalent in the region. the economic conditions in this region are subject to different growth expectations, market weaknesses and business practices. we cannot predict how changing market conditions in this region will impact our financial results. the architectural results could be adversely impacted by integration and other volatilities associated with the acquisition of a foreign operation. the architectural segment’s performance will be impacted by its ability to successfully integrate the recently acquired business in brazil, which represented approximately one percent of the annual sales for this segment in fiscal 2011, or less than 10 percent on an annualized basis. if we are unable to successfully integrate the business into our current business model, or do not realize projected efficiencies and cost-savings from the business we acquired, we may be unable to meet our growth or profit objectives. additionally, our increased presence in south america may result in our revenues and net income being adversely affected by the volatility of the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and the brazilian real. the architectural segment’s markets are very competitive and actions of competitors, or new market entrants, as well as product preferences could result in a loss of customers that would negatively impact revenues and earnings. the markets that the architectural segment serves are product-attribute, price and lead-time sensitive. the segment competes with several large, integrated glass manufacturers; numerous specialty, architectural glass and window fabricators; and major contractors and subcontractors. some of our competitors may have greater financial or other resources than the company. changes in our competitor’s products, prices or services could negatively impact our market share, revenues or margins. architectural trends or building code changes that reduce window-to-wall ratios could also negatively impact our revenues or margins. the architectural segment results could be adversely impacted by product quality and performance reliability problems. we manufacture and/or install a significant portion of our products based on specific requirements of each of our customers. we believe that future orders of our products or services will depend on our ability to maintain the performance, reliability and quality standards required by our customers. if our products or services have performance, reliability or quality problems, we may experience delays in the collection of accounts receivable; higher manufacturing or installation costs; additional warranty and service expense; or reduced, cancelled or discontinued orders. additionally, performance, reliability or quality claims from our customers, with or without merit, could result in costly and time-consuming litigation that could require significant time and attention of management and involve significant monetary damages that could negatively impact our financial results. the architectural results could be adversely impacted by capacity utilization and changes in technology impacting capacity utilization. the architectural segment’s near-term performance depends, to a significant degree, on its ability to fully utilize capacity at its production facilities. the failure to successfully utilize or manage capacity, and the impact of closing a facility in the future could adversely affect our operating results. additionally, advances in product or process technologies on the part of existing or prospective competitors could have a significant impact on our ability to utilize our capacity and, therefore, have an adverse impact on our operating results. the architectural results could be adversely impacted by installation issues. the company’s installation business typically is awarded as a fixed-price contract. often, bids are required before all aspects of a construction project are known. an underestimate in the amount of labor required and/or cost of materials for a project; a change in the timing of the delivery of product; difficulties or errors in execution; or significant delays could result in failure to achieve the expected results. any such issues could result in losses on individual contracts that could impact our operating results.   10 table of contents large-scale optical technologies (lso) the lso segment is highly dependent on a relatively small number of customers for its sales. we continue to expect to derive a significant portion of our net sales from a small number of customers. accordingly, loss of a significant customer or a significant reduction in pricing, or a shift to a less favorable mix of value-added picture framing glass products for one of those customers could materially reduce lso revenues and operating results in any one year. the lso segment is highly dependent on u.s. consumer confidence and the u.s. economy. our business in this segment depends on the strength of the retail picture framing market. this market is highly dependent on consumer confidence and the conditions of the u.s. economy. we have been able to partially offset the impact of economic slowdowns in the recent past with an increase in the mix of higher value-added picture framing products. if consumer confidence further declines, whether as a result of an economic slowdown, uncertainty regarding the future or other factors, our use of these strategies may not be as successful in the future, resulting in a potentially significant decrease in revenues and operating income. the lso segment results could be adversely impacted by capacity utilization. the lso segment’s near-term performance depends, to a significant degree, on its ability to utilize its production capacity, especially since we have increased the capacity to manufacture our highest value-added picture framing glass and acrylic products. the failure to successfully manage this additional capacity, as well as our existing capacity, could adversely impact operating results. other operational risks the company’s results may be adversely impacted by implementation of an enterprise resource planning (erp) system. since fiscal 2008, the company has been implementing an erp system to upgrade its information system technologies at its business units. the complexities of an erp implementation and large-scale process changes that are required could result in costs that exceed the project budget, business interruptions or reduced financial performance, adversely impacting operating results. financial risks volatility in the global economy could adversely affect results of operations and our financial condition. global financial markets have been experiencing disruption over the past three years, including, among other things, volatility in securities prices; diminished liquidity; credit availability; rating downgrades of certain investments; and declining valuations of others. these conditions have negatively impacted the markets we serve and as a result have had an adverse impact on our recent results of operations. further volatility could lead to challenges in our business and negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations or lead to impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill. the tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect our ability, as well as the ability of our customers and suppliers, to obtain and maintain financing. in addition, lack of financing for commercial construction projects could further result in a decrease in orders and spending for our products and services. we also maintain a significant amount of assets in the form of investments, primarily municipal bonds. the value of these investments and the timing of our need for cash could have a significant impact on our operating results. our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results are volatile and difficult to predict. our revenue and operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, and company-provided guidance in future periods. our annual revenue and operating results may vary depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, fluctuating customer demand, delay or timing of shipments, construction delays or cancellation due to lack of financing for construction projects, changes in product and project mix or market acceptance of new products. manufacturing or operational difficulties that may arise due to quality control, capacity utilization of our production equipment or staffing requirements may also impact our annual revenue and operating results. in addition, competition, including new entrants into our markets, the introduction of new products by competitors, adoption of competitive technologies by our customers, and competitive pressures on prices of our products and services, could impact our annual revenue and operating results. finally, our annual revenue and operating results may vary depending on raw material pricing and the potential for disruption of supply, and changes in legislation that could have an adverse impact on our labor or other costs. our failure to meet revenue and operating result expectations would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   11 table of contents self-insurance and product liability risk we retain a high level of uninsured risk; a material claim could impact our financial results. we obtain substantial amounts of commercial insurance for potential losses for general liability, employment practices, workers’ compensation and automobile liability risk. however, a high amount of risk is retained on a self-insured basis through a wholly-owned insurance subsidiary. therefore, a material product liability event, such as a material rework event, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. environmental regulation risks we are subject to potential environmental remediation regulation and compliance risks that could adversely affect our financial results. we use hazardous chemicals in producing products at three facilities (two in our architectural segment and one in our lso segment). one facility in our architectural segment has certain historical environmental conditions which we believe require remediation. we are subject to a variety of local, state and federal governmental regulations relating to storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products, compliance with which is expensive. additionally, our inability to remediate the historical environmental conditions at the architectural segment facility at or below the amounts estimated as part of the purchase price allocation could have a material adverse impact on future financial results. our failure to comply with current or future environmental regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines on us, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or increased costs. our financial results could also be impacted by rising energy and material costs associated with environmental regulations. personnel risks loss of key management or other personnel, or the inability to effectively manage executive transitions, could adversely affect our financial results. our success depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive management and other key personnel. our ceo has announced his intention to retire and we are in the process of searching for a new ceo. if, for any reason, one or more senior executives or key personnel were not to remain active in our company, or if we were unable to effectively manage senior executive transitions, our financial results could be adversely affected. item 1b. unresolved