item 1a. risk factors aaron’s business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, the most significant of which are set forth below. our growth strategy depends considerably on opening new company-operated stores. our ability to expand our store base is influenced by factors beyond our control, which may impair our growth strategy and impede our revenue growth. opening new company-operated stores is an important part of our growth strategy. our ability to continue opening new stores is affected by, among other things:     •   the substantial outlay of financial resources required to open new stores and initially operate them, and the availability of capital sources to finance new openings and initial operation;     •   difficulties associated with hiring, training and retaining additional skilled personnel, including store managers;     •   our ability to identify suitable new store sites and to negotiate acceptable leases for these sites;     •   competition in existing and new markets;     •   consumer demand, tastes and spending patterns in new markets that differ from those in our existing markets; and     •   challenges in adapting our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores.   14 if we cannot address these challenges successfully, we may not be able to expand our business or increase our revenues at the rates we currently contemplate. if we cannot manage the costs of opening new stores, our profitability may suffer. opening large numbers of new stores requires significant start-up expenses, and new stores are generally not profitable until their second year of operation. consequently, opening many stores over a short period can materially decrease our net earnings for a time. this effect is called “new store drag.” during 2011, we estimate that start-up expenses for new stores reduced our net earnings by approximately $11 million, or $.14 per diluted share for our aaron’s sales & lease ownership stores and approximately $4 million, or $.06 per diluted share for our homesmart stores. we cannot be certain that we will be able to fully recover these significant costs in the future. we may not be able to attract qualified franchisees, which may slow the growth of our business. our growth strategy also depends significantly upon our franchisees developing new franchised sales and lease ownership stores. we generally seek franchisees who meet our stringent business background and financial criteria, and who are willing to enter into area development agreements for several stores. a number of factors, however, could inhibit our ability to find qualified franchisees, including general economic downturns or legislative or litigation developments that make the rent-to-own industry less attractive to potential franchisees. these developments could also adversely affect our franchisees’ ability to obtain adequate capital to develop and operate new stores on time, or at all. our inability to find qualified franchisees could slow our growth. qualified franchisees who conform to our standards and requirements are also important to the overall success of our business. our franchisees, however, are independent businesses and not employees, and consequently we cannot and do not control them to the same extent as our company-operated stores. our franchisees may fail in key areas, which could in turn slow our growth, reduce our franchise revenues or damage our image and reputation. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, our profitability may decrease. we frequently acquire other sales and lease ownership businesses. we acquired the lease agreements, merchandise and assets of 38 aaron’s sales & lease ownership stores and 47 homesmart stores through acquisitions in 2011. if we are unable to integrate businesses we acquire successfully, we may incur substantial cost and delays in increasing our customer base. in addition, the failure to integrate acquisitions successfully may divert management’s attention from aaron’s existing business. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in an unfamiliar market, or a business with a different management philosophy or operating style. our competitors could impede our ability to attract new customers, or cause current customers to cease doing business with us. the industries in which we compete are highly competitive. in the sales and lease ownership market, our competitors include national, regional and local operators of rent-to-own stores and credit retailers. our competitors in the sales and lease ownership and traditional retail markets may have significantly greater financial and operating resources, and greater name recognition in certain markets, than we have. greater financial resources may allow our competitors to grow faster than us, including through acquisitions. this in turn may enable them to enter new markets before we can, which may decrease our opportunities in those markets. greater name recognition, or better public perception of a competitor’s reputation, may help them divert market share away from us, even in our established markets. in addition, new competitors may emerge. current and potential competitors may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with third parties. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share.   15 if our independent franchisees fail to meet their debt service payments or other obligations under outstanding loans guaranteed by us as part of a franchise loan program, we may be required to pay to satisfy these obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. we have guaranteed the borrowings of certain franchisees under a franchise loan program with several banks with a maximum commitment amount of $200.0 million. in the event these franchisees are unable to meet their debt service payments or otherwise experience an event of default, we would be unconditionally liable for a portion of the outstanding balance of the franchisees’ debt obligations, which at december 31, 2011 was $128.8 million. of this amount, approximately $108.5 million represents franchisee borrowings outstanding under the franchise loan program and approximately $20.3 million represents franchisee borrowings that we guarantee under other debt facilities. although we have had no significant losses associated with the franchisee loan and guaranty program since its inception, and we believe that any losses associated with any defaults would be mitigated through recovery of lease merchandise and other assets, we cannot guarantee that there will be no significant losses in the future or that we will be able to adequately mitigate any such losses. if we fail to adequately mitigate any such future losses, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. any loss of the services of our key executives, or our inability to attract and retain qualified managers, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. we believe that we have benefited substantially from our current executive leadership and that the loss of their services at any time in the near future could adversely affect our business and operations. we also depend on the continued services of the rest of our management team. the loss of these individuals without adequate replacement could also adversely affect our business. although we have employment agreements with the majority of our key executives, they are generally terminable on short notice and we do not carry key man life insurance on any of our officers. additionally, we need a growing number of qualified managers to operate our stores successfully. the inability to attract and retain qualified individuals, or a significant increase in the costs to do so, would materially adversely affect our operations. you should not rely solely on our same store revenues as an indication of our future results of operations because they fluctuate significantly. our historical same store revenue growth figures have fluctuated significantly from year to year. for example, we experienced same store revenue growth of 4.4% in 2011 and 3.5% in 2010. we calculate same store revenue growth by comparing revenues for comparable periods for all stores open during the entirety of those periods. even though we achieved significant same store revenue growth in the past and consider it a key indicator of historical performance, we may not be able to increase same store revenues in the future. a number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our same store revenues, including:     •   changes in competition;     •   general economic conditions;     •   new product introductions;     •   consumer trends;     •   changes in our merchandise mix;     •   the opening of new stores;     •   the impact of our new stores on our existing stores, including potential decreases in existing stores’ revenues as a result of opening new stores;     •   timing of promotional events; and     •   our ability to execute our business strategy effectively. changes in our quarterly and annual same store revenues could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly.   16 our operations are regulated by and subject to the requirements of various federal and state laws and regulations. these laws and regulations which may be amended or supplemented or interpreted by the courts from time to time, could expose us to significant compliance costs or burdens or force us to change our business practices in a manner that may be materially adverse to our operations, prospects or financial condition. currently 47 states and the district of columbia specifically regulate rent-to-own transactions, including states in which we currently operate aaron’s sales & lease ownership and homesmart stores. at the present time, no federal law specifically regulates the rent-to-own industry, although federal legislation to regulate the industry has been proposed from time to time. any adverse changes in existing laws, or the passage of new adverse legislation by states or the federal government could materially increase both our costs of complying with laws and the risk that we could be sued or be subject to government sanctions if we are not in compliance. in addition, new burdensome legislation might force us to change our business model and might reduce the economic potential of our sales and lease ownership operations. most of the states that regulate rent-to-own transactions have enacted disclosure laws which require rent-to-own companies to disclose to their customers the total number of payments, total amount and timing of all payments to acquire ownership of any item, any other charges that may be imposed by them and miscellaneous other items. the more restrictive state lease purchase laws limit the total amount that a customer may be charged for an item, or regulate the amount of deemed “interest” that rent-to-own companies may charge on rent-to-own transactions, generally defining “interest” as lease fees paid in excess of the “retail” price of the goods. the current economic downturn has renewed legislative attention in the united states, at both the state and federal levels, on consumer debt transactions in general, which may result in an increase in legislative regulatory efforts directed at the rent-to-own industry. we cannot guarantee that the federal government or states will not enact additional or different legislation that would be disadvantageous or otherwise materially adverse to us, nor can we guarantee that canadian law will not be enacted that would be materially adverse to us. in addition to the risk of lawsuits related to the laws that regulate rent-to-own and consumer lease transactions, we could be subject to lawsuits alleging violations of federal and state or canadian provincial laws and regulations and consumer tort law, including fraud, consumer protection, information and privacy laws, because of the consumer-oriented nature of the rent-to-own industry. a large judgment could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. moreover, an adverse outcome from a lawsuit, even one against one of our competitors, could result in changes in the way we and others in the industry do business, possibly leading to significant costs or decreased revenues or profitability. continuation or worsening of current economic conditions could result in decreased revenues or increased costs. the united states’ and other economies are currently experiencing distress and uncertainty accompanied by high unemployment. although we believe the economic downturn has resulted in increased business in our sales and lease ownership stores, as consumers increasingly find it difficult to purchase home furnishings, electronics and appliances from traditional retailers on store installment credit, it is possible that if the conditions continue for a significant period of time, or get worse, consumers may curtail spending on all or some of the types of merchandise we offer, in which event our revenues may suffer. in addition, unemployment may result in increased defaults on lease payments, resulting in increased merchandise return costs and merchandise losses.   17 we are subject to laws that regulate franchisor-franchisee relationships. our ability to develop new franchised stores and enforce our rights against franchisees may be adversely affected by these laws, which could impair our growth strategy and cause our franchise revenues to decline. as a franchisor, we are subject to regulation by the federal trade commission, state laws and certain canadian provincial laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. because we plan to expand our business in part by selling more franchises, our failure to obtain or maintain approvals to sell franchises could significantly impair our growth strategy. in addition, our failure to comply with franchise regulations could cause us to lose franchise fees and ongoing royalty revenues. moreover, state and provincial laws that regulate substantive aspects of our relationships with franchisees may limit our ability to terminate or otherwise resolve conflicts with our franchisees. see item 3, “legal proceedings,” for information on some of our pending legal proceedings. we are subject to legal proceedings from time to time which seek material damages. we frequently are subject to legal proceedings, including class actions, that seek material damages. although we do not presently believe that any of the legal proceedings to which we are currently a party will ultimately have a material adverse impact upon us, we cannot assure you that we will not incur material damages in a lawsuit or other proceeding in the future. significant final judgments, settlement amounts, amounts needed to post a bond pending an appeal or defense costs could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. if we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers and employees, we could be subject to costly private litigation, government enforcement actions or material remedial costs, and our reputation could suffer. we collect, transmit and store potentially sensitive information about our employees, franchisees and customers on our information technology systems. due to the nature of our business, we may collect, transmit and store more of such information than other types of retailers. we also serve as an information technology provider to our franchisees and store and process information related to their customers on our systems. although we take precautions to protect this information, it is possible that hackers or other malefactors could attack our systems and attempt to obtain such information, or such information could be exposed by accident or failure of our systems. we have experienced security incidents in the past, including an incident in which customer information was compromised, although no security incidents have resulted in a material loss to date. we are in the process of improving our system security, although there can be no assurance that these improvements, or others that we implement from time to time, will be effective to prevent all security incidents. we maintain cyber security insurance liability coverage intended to help mitigate the financial risk of such incidents, but there can be no guarantee that insurance will be sufficient to cover all losses related to such incidents. a significant compromise of sensitive customer or employee information in our possession could result in legal damages and regulatory penalties. in addition, the costs of defending such actions, or in remediating breaches, could be material. security breaches could also harm our reputation with our customers, potentially leading to decreased revenues. if our information technology systems are impaired, our business could be interrupted, our reputation could be harmed and we may experience lost sales and increased costs and expenses. we rely on our information technology systems to process transactions with our customers, including tracking lease payments on merchandise, and to manage other important functions of our business. failures of our systems—whether due to intentional malfeasance by outside parties or to accidental causes, such as “bugs,” crashes, operator error or catastrophic events—could seriously impair our ability to operate our business. if our information technology systems are impaired, our business (and that of our franchisees) could be interrupted, our reputation could be harmed, we may experience lost revenues or sales and we could experience increased costs and expenses to remediate the problem.   item 1b. unresolved