item 1a. risk factors aaron’s business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties. any of the following risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results. these risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face, but represent the risks that we believe are material. however, there may be additional risks that we currently consider not to be material or of which we are not currently aware, and any of these risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results. our growth strategy depends considerably on opening new company-operated stores. our ability to expand our store base is influenced by factors beyond our control, which may impair our growth strategy and impede our revenue growth.   opening new company-operated stores is an important part of our growth strategy. our ability to continue opening new stores may be affected by:   • the substantial outlay of financial resources required to open new stores and initially operate them, and the availability of capital sources to finance new openings and initial operation; • difficulties associated with hiring, training and retaining additional skilled personnel, including store managers; • our ability to identify suitable new store sites and to negotiate acceptable leases for these sites; • competition in existing and new markets; • consumer demand, tastes and spending patterns in new markets that differ from those in our existing markets; and • challenges in adapting our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores. if we cannot address these challenges successfully, we may not be able to expand our business or increase our revenues at the rates we currently contemplate. our same store revenues have fluctuated significantly and have declined in recent periods. our historical same store revenue growth figures have fluctuated significantly from year to year. for example, we experienced same store revenue growth of .9% in 2013 and 5.1% in 2012. we calculate same store revenue growth by comparing revenues for comparable periods for all stores open during the entirety of those periods. even though we have achieved significant same store revenue growth in the past and consider it a key indicator of historical performance, our more recent same store revenue growth has not been as robust, and we may not be able to restore same store revenues to historical higher levels in the future. a number of factors have historically affected our same store revenues, including:   • changes in competition; • general economic conditions; • new product introductions; • consumer trends; • changes in our merchandise mix; • the opening of new stores; • the impact of our new stores on our existing stores, including potential decreases in existing stores’ revenues as a 13 table of contents result of opening new stores; • timing of promotional events; and • our ability to execute our business strategy effectively. changes in our quarterly and annual same store revenues could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. continuation or worsening of current economic conditions could result in decreased revenues or increased costs. the u.s. economy is currently experiencing prolonged uncertainty accompanied by high unemployment. we believe that the extended duration of current economic conditions, particularly as they apply to our customer base, may be resulting in our customers curtailing entering into sales and lease ownership agreements for the types of merchandise we offer, resulting in decreased revenues. in addition, unemployment may result in increased defaults on lease payments, resulting in increased merchandise return costs and merchandise losses. if we cannot manage the costs of opening new stores, our profitability may suffer. opening large numbers of new stores requires significant start-up expenses, and new stores are generally not profitable until their second year of operation. consequently, opening many stores over a short period can materially decrease our net earnings for a time. during 2013, we estimate that start-up expenses for new stores reduced our net earnings by approximately $10.4 million, or $.14 per diluted share, for our aaron's sales & lease ownership stores and approximately $300,000 for our homesmart stores, which had no impact on earnings per diluted share. we cannot be certain that we will be able to fully recover these significant costs in the future. we may not be able to attract qualified franchisees, which may slow the growth of our business. our growth strategy depends significantly upon our franchisees developing new franchised sales and lease ownership stores, maximizing penetration of their designated markets and operating their stores successfully. we generally seek franchisees who meet our stringent business background and financial criteria and who are willing to enter into area development agreements for multiple stores. a number of factors could inhibit our ability to find qualified franchisees, including general economic downturns or legislative or litigation developments that make the rent-to-own industry less attractive to potential franchisees. these developments could also adversely affect the ability of our franchisees to obtain capital needed to develop and operate new stores. operational and other failures by our franchisees may adversely impact us. qualified franchisees who conform to our standards and requirements are important to the overall success of our business. our franchisees, however, are independent businesses and not employees, and consequently we cannot and do not control them to the same extent as our company-operated stores. our franchisees may fail in key areas, which could slow our growth, reduce our franchise revenues or damage our reputation. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, our profitability may decrease. we frequently acquire other sales and lease ownership businesses. since the beginning of 2009, we acquired the lease agreements, merchandise and assets of 169 aaron's sales & lease ownership stores and 51 homesmart stores. if we are unable to successfully integrate businesses we acquire, we may incur substantial cost and delays in increasing our customer base. in addition, our efforts to integrate acquisitions successfully may divert management’s attention from our existing business, which may harm our profitability. the integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in an unfamiliar market or with a different management philosophy or operating style. our competitors could impede our ability to attract new customers, or cause current customers to cease doing business with us. the industries in which we operate are highly competitive. in the sales and lease ownership market, our competitors include national, regional and local operators of rent-to-own stores and traditional retailers. our competitors in the sales and lease ownership and traditional retail markets may have significantly greater financial and operating resources and greater name recognition in certain markets. greater financial resources may allow our competitors to grow faster than us, including through acquisitions. this in turn may enable them to enter new markets before we can, which may decrease our opportunities in those markets. greater name recognition, or better public perception of a competitor’s reputation, may help them divert market share away from us, even in our established markets. 14 table of contents in addition, new competitors may emerge or current and potential competitors may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with third parties. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. the occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely impact our business. if our independent franchisees fail to meet their debt service payments or other obligations under outstanding loans guaranteed by us as part of a franchise loan program, we may be required to pay to satisfy these obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. we have guaranteed the borrowings of certain franchisees under a franchise loan program with several banks with a maximum commitment amount of $200.0 million. in the event these franchisees are unable to meet their debt service payments or otherwise experience events of default, we would be unconditionally liable for a portion of the outstanding balance of the franchisees’ debt obligations, which at december 31, 2013 was $105.0 million. we have had no significant losses associated with the franchise loan and guaranty program since its inception. although we believe that any losses associated with defaults would be mitigated through recovery of lease merchandise and other assets, we cannot guarantee that there will be no significant losses in the future or that we will be able to adequately mitigate any such losses. if we fail to adequately mitigate any such future losses, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. the loss of the services of our key executives, or our inability to attract and retain qualified managers, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. we believe that we have benefited substantially from our current executive leadership and that the unexpected loss of their services in the future could adversely affect our business and operations. we also depend on the continued services of the rest of our management team. the loss of these individuals without adequate replacement could adversely affect our business. although we have employment agreements with some of our key executives, they are generally terminable on short notice and we do not carry key man life insurance on any of our officers. the inability to attract and retain qualified individuals, or a significant increase in the costs to do so, would materially adversely affect our operations. we are subject to legal and regulatory proceedings from time to time which seek material damages or seek to place significant restrictions on our business operations. we are subject to legal and regulatory proceedings from time to time which may result in material damages or place significant restrictions on our business operations. although we do not presently believe that any of our current legal or regulatory proceedings will ultimately have a material adverse impact on our operations, we cannot assure you that we will not incur material damages or penalties in a lawsuit or other proceeding in the future. significant adverse judgments, penalties, settlement amounts, amounts needed to post a bond pending an appeal or defense costs could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. it is also possible that, as a result of a future governmental or other proceeding or settlement, that significant restrictions will be place upon, or significant changes made, to our business practices, operations or methods, including pricing or similar terms. any such restrictions or changes may adversely affect our profitability or increase our compliance costs. our operations are regulated by and subject to the requirements of various federal and state laws and regulations. these laws and regulations, which may be amended or supplemented or interpreted by the courts from time to time, could expose us to significant compliance costs or burdens or force us to change our business practices in a manner that may be materially adverse to our operations, prospects or financial condition. currently, 47 states and the district of columbia specifically regulate rent-to-own transactions, including states in which we currently operate aaron’s sales & lease ownership and homesmart stores. at the present time, no federal law specifically regulates the rent-to-own industry, although federal legislation to regulate the industry has been proposed from time to time. any adverse changes in existing laws, or the passage of new adverse legislation by states or the federal government could materially increase both our costs of complying with laws and the risk that we could be sued or be subject to government sanctions if we are not in compliance. in addition, new burdensome legislation might force us to change our business model and might reduce the economic potential of our sales and lease ownership operations. most of the states that regulate rent-to-own transactions have enacted disclosure laws which require rent-to-own companies to disclose to their customers the total number of payments, total amount and timing of all payments to acquire ownership of any item, any other charges that may be imposed and miscellaneous other items. the more restrictive state lease purchase laws limit the total amount that a customer may be charged for an item, or regulate the "cost-of-rental" amount that rent-to-own 15 table of contents companies may charge on rent-to-own transactions, generally defining "cost-of-rental" as lease fees paid in excess of the “retail” price of the goods. there has been increased legislative attention in the united states, at both the federal and state levels, on consumer debt transactions in general, which may result in an increase in legislative regulatory efforts directed at the rent-to-own industry. we cannot guarantee that the federal government or states will not enact additional or different legislation that would be disadvantageous or otherwise materially adverse to us, nor can we guarantee that canadian law will not be enacted that would be materially adverse to our franchisees there. in addition to the risk of lawsuits related to the laws that regulate rent-to-own and consumer lease transactions, we or our franchisees could be subject to lawsuits alleging violations of federal and state or canadian provincial laws and regulations and consumer tort law, including fraud, consumer protection, information security and privacy laws, because of the consumer-oriented nature of the rent-to-own industry. a large judgment against the company could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. moreover, an adverse outcome from a lawsuit, even one against one of our competitors, could result in changes in the way we and others in the industry do business, possibly leading to significant costs or decreased revenues or profitability. we are subject to laws that regulate franchisor-franchisee relationships. our ability to develop new franchised stores and enforce our rights against franchisees may be adversely affected by these laws, which could impair our growth strategy and cause our franchise revenues to decline. as a franchisor, we are subject to regulation by the federal trade commission, state laws and certain canadian provincial laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. because we plan to expand our business in part by awarding more franchises, our failure to obtain or maintain approvals to sell franchises could significantly impair our growth strategy. in addition, our failure to comply with applicable franchise regulations could cause us to lose franchise fees and ongoing royalty revenues. moreover, state and provincial laws that regulate substantive aspects of our relationships with franchisees may limit our ability to terminate or otherwise resolve conflicts with our franchisees. new regulations related to conflict minerals may adversely impact our business. the dodd-frank act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries. we must comply with annual disclosure and reporting rules adopted by the sec pursuant to the dodd-frank act because of certain materials used in products manufactured by our manufacturing division, woodhaven furniture industries. our supply chain is complex and we do not source our minerals directly from the original mine or smelter. consequently, we incur costs in complying with these disclosure requirements, including for due diligence to determine the source of the subject minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. the rules may adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products throughout the supply chain beyond our control, whether or not the subject minerals are conflict free. also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all subject minerals used in our products. if we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers and employees, we could be subject to costly private litigation, government enforcement actions or material remedial costs. we collect, transmit and store potentially sensitive information about our employees, franchisees and customers on our information technology systems. due to the nature of our business, we may collect, transmit and store more of such information than other types of retailers. we also serve as an information technology provider to our franchisees including storing and processing information related to their customers on our systems. although we take precautions to protect this information, it is possible that hackers or other unauthorized users could attack our systems and attempt to obtain such information, or such information could be exposed by accident or the failure of our systems. we have experienced security incidents in the past, including an incident in which customer information was compromised, although no security incidents have resulted in a material loss to date. we are in the process of improving our system security, although there can be no assurance that these improvements, or others that we implement from time to time, will be effective to prevent all security incidents. we maintain network security and private liability insurance intended to help mitigate the financial risk of such incidents, but there can be no guarantee that insurance will be sufficient to cover all losses related to such incidents. a significant compromise of sensitive employee or customer information in our possession could result in legal damages and 16 table of contents regulatory penalties. in addition, the costs of defending such actions or remediating breaches could be material. security breaches could also harm our reputation with our customers, potentially leading to decreased revenues. 17 table of contents if our information technology systems are impaired, our business could be interrupted, our reputation could be harmed and we may experience lost revenues and increased costs and expenses. we rely on our information technology systems to process transactions with our customers, including tracking lease payments on merchandise, and to manage other important functions of our business. failures of our systems, whether due to intentional malfeasance by outside parties or to accidental causes, such as “bugs,” crashes, operator error or catastrophic events, could seriously impair our ability to operate our business. if our information technology systems are impaired, our business (and that of our franchisees) could be interrupted, our reputation could be harmed, we may experience lost revenues or sales and we could experience increased costs and expenses to remediate the problem. item 1b. unresolved