item 1a. risk factors the availability and prices of the agricultural commodities and agricultural commodity products the company procures, transports, stores, processes, and merchandises can be affected by weather conditions, disease, government programs, competition, and various other factors beyond the company’s control and could adversely affect the company’s operating results. the availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops.  additionally, the company depends globally on farmers to ensure an adequate supply of the agricultural commodities used by the company in its operations is maintained. these factors have historically caused volatility in the availability and prices of agricultural commodities and, consequently, in the company’s operating results and working capital requirements.  reduced supply of agricultural commodities due to weather-related factors or other reasons could adversely affect the company’s profitability by increasing the cost of raw materials and/or limiting the company’s ability to procure, transport, store, process, and merchandise agricultural commodities in an efficient manner.  for example, a drought in north america in 2012 reduced the availability of corn and soybean inventories while prices increased.  high and volatile commodity prices can adversely affect the company’s ability to meet its liquidity needs. the company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates. the company faces significant competition in each of its businesses and has numerous competitors.  the company competes for the acquisition of inputs such as agricultural commodities, workforce, and other materials and supplies.  additionally, competitors offer similar products and services, as well as alternative products and services, to the company’s customers.  the company is dependent on being able to generate revenues in excess of cost of products sold in order to obtain margins, profits, and cash flows to meet or exceed its targeted financial performance measures and provide cash for operating, working capital, dividend, or capital expenditure needs.  competition impacts the company’s ability to generate and increase its gross profit as a result of the following factors.  pricing of the company’s products is partly dependent upon industry processing capacity, which is impacted by competitor actions to bring on-line idled capacity or to build new production capacity.  many of the products bought and sold by the company are global commodities or are derived from global commodities.  the markets for global commodities are highly price competitive and in many cases the commodities are subject to substitution.  to compete effectively, the company focuses on improving efficiency in its production and distribution operations, developing and maintaining appropriate market share, and providing high levels of customer service.  competition could increase the company’s costs to purchase raw materials, lower selling prices of its products, or reduce the company’s market share, which may result in lower and more inefficient operating rates and reduced gross profit. 9 item 1a. risk factors (continued) fluctuations in energy prices could adversely affect the company’s operating results. the company’s operating costs and the selling prices of certain finished products are sensitive to changes in energy prices.  the company’s processing plants are powered principally by electricity, natural gas, and coal.  the company’s transportation operations are dependent upon diesel fuel and other petroleum-based products.  significant increases in the cost of these items, including any consequences of regulation or taxation of greenhouse gases, could adversely affect the company’s production costs and operating results. the company has certain finished products, such as ethanol and biodiesel, which are closely related to, or may be substituted for, petroleum products.  therefore, the selling prices of ethanol and biodiesel can be impacted by the selling prices of gasoline and diesel fuel.  a significant decrease in the price of gasoline or diesel fuel could result in a significant decrease in the selling price of the company’s ethanol and biodiesel and could adversely affect the company’s revenues and operating results. the company is subject to economic downturns, which could adversely affect the company’s operating results. the company conducts its business and has substantial assets located in many countries and geographic areas. while approximately 55 percent of the company’s processing plants and 64 percent of its procurement facilities are located in the united states, the company also has significant operations in both developed areas (such as western europe, canada, brazil) and emerging market areas (such as eastern europe, asia, portions of south and central america, the middle east, and africa). one of the company's strategies is to expand the global reach of its core model which may include expanding or developing its business in emerging market areas such as asia, eastern europe, the middle east, and africa. both developed and emerging market areas are subject to impacts of economic downturns, including decreased demand for the company’s products, and reduced availability of credit, or declining credit quality of the company’s suppliers, customers, and other counterparties.  in addition, emerging market areas could be subject to more volatile operating conditions including, but not limited to, logistics limitations or delays, labor-related challenges, limitations or regulations affecting trade flows, local currency concerns, and other economic and political instability.  economic downturns and volatile market conditions could adversely affect the company’s operating results and ability to execute its business strategies. government policies, mandates, and regulations, in general; government policies, mandates, and regulations specifically affecting the agricultural sector and related industries; and political instability and other risks of doing business globally could adversely affect the company’s operating results. agricultural production and trade flows are subject to government policies, mandates, and regulations. governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives, foreign exchange rates, and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, including policies related to genetically modified organisms, renewable fuel, and low carbon fuel mandates, can influence the planting of certain crops, the location and size of crop production, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded, the volume and types of imports and exports, the availability and competitiveness of feedstocks as raw materials, the viability and volume of production of certain of the company’s products, and industry profitability.  for example, changes in government policies or regulations of ethanol and biodiesel, including but not limited to changes in the renewable fuel standard program under the energy independence and security act of 2007 in the united states, can have a significant impact on the company’s operating results.  international trade regulations can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. regulations of financial markets and instruments, including the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, create uncertainty and may lead to additional risks and costs, and could adversely affect the company's agricultural commodity risk management practices as well as the company's futures commission merchant business. future government policies may adversely affect the supply of, demand for, and prices of the company’s products; restrict the company’s ability to do business in its existing and target markets; and adversely affect the company’s revenues and operating results. 10 item 1a. risk factors (continued) the company’s operating results could be affected by changes in other governmental policies, mandates, and regulations including monetary, fiscal and environmental policies, laws, regulations, acquisition approvals, and other activities of governments, agencies, and similar organizations.  these risks include but are not limited to changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, currency exchange fluctuations, burdensome taxes and tariffs, enforceability of legal agreements and judgments, adverse tax, administrative agency or judicial outcomes, and regulation or taxation of greenhouse gases.  international risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities, and war, could limit the company’s ability to transact business in these markets and could adversely affect the company’s revenues and operating results. the company's strategy involves expanding the volume and diversity of crops it merchandises and processes, expanding the global reach of its core model, and expanding its value-added product portfolio. government policies, including anti-trust and competition law, trade restrictions, food safety regulations, and other government regulations and mandates, can impact the company's ability to execute this strategy successfully. the company is subject to industry-specific risks which could adversely affect the company’s operating results. the company is subject to risks which include, but are not limited to, product quality or contamination; shifting consumer preferences; federal, state, and local food processing regulations; socially acceptable farming practices; environmental, health and safety regulations; and customer product liability claims.  the liability which could result from certain of these risks may not always be covered by, or could exceed liability insurance related to product liability and food safety matters maintained by the company.  in addition, negative publicity caused by product liability and food safety matters may damage the company’s reputation.  the occurrence of any of the matters described above could adversely affect the company’s revenues and operating results. certain of the company’s merchandised commodities and finished products are used as ingredients in livestock and poultry feed.  the company is subject to risks associated with economic or other factors which may adversely affect the livestock and poultry businesses, including the outbreak of disease in livestock and poultry.  an outbreak of disease could adversely affect demand for the company’s products used as ingredients in livestock and poultry feed.  a decrease in demand for ingredients in livestock and poultry feed could adversely affect the company’s revenues and operating results. the company is subject to numerous laws, regulations, and mandates globally which could adversely affect the company’s operating results and forward strategy. the company does business globally, connecting crops and markets in over 144 countries.  the company is required to comply with the numerous and broad-reaching laws and regulations administered by united states federal, state and local, and foreign governmental authorities.  the company must comply with other general business regulations such as accounting and income taxes, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, global trade, environmental, and handling of regulated substances.  the company frequently faces challenges from u.s. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due.  these challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions.  in evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the company.  as examples, the company has received large tax assessments from tax authorities in brazil and argentina challenging income tax positions taken by subsidiaries of the company covering various prior periods.  any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or appropriately resolve these challenges could subject the company to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies including fines, injunctions, and recalls of its products, and damage to its reputation. the production of the company’s products requires the use of materials which can create emissions of certain regulated substances, including greenhouse gas emissions.  although the company has programs in place throughout the organization globally to guard against non-compliance, failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties as well as a negative impact on the company’s reputation, business, cash flows, and results of operations. in addition, changes to regulations or implementation of additional regulations, for example the imposition of regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gases, may require the company to modify existing processing facilities and/or processes which could significantly increase operating costs and adversely affect operating results. 11 item 1a. risk factors (continued) the company is exposed to potential business disruption, including but not limited to disruption of transportation services, supply of non-commodity raw materials used in its processing operations, and other impacts resulting from acts of terrorism or war, natural disasters, severe weather conditions, and accidents which could adversely affect the company’s operating results. the company’s operations rely on dependable and efficient transportation services.  a disruption in transportation services could result in difficulties supplying materials to the company’s facilities and impair the company’s ability to deliver products to its customers in a timely manner.  the company relies on access to navigable rivers and waterways in order to fulfill its transportation obligations more effectively.  if access to these navigable waters is interrupted, the company’s operating results could be adversely affected.  in addition, if certain non-agricultural commodity raw materials, such as water or certain chemicals used in the company’s processing operations, are not available, the company’s business could be disrupted.  any major lack of available water for use in certain of the company's processing operations could have a material adverse impact on operating results.  certain factors which may impact the availability of non-agricultural commodity raw materials are out of the company’s control including, but not limited to, disruptions resulting from weather, economic conditions, manufacturing delays or disruptions at suppliers, shortage of materials, and unavailable or poor supplier credit conditions. the assets and operations of the company could be subject to extensive property damage and business disruption from various events which include, but are not limited to, acts of terrorism or war, natural disasters and severe weather conditions, accidents, explosions, and fires. the potential effects of these conditions could adversely affect the company’s revenues and operating results. the company’s business is capital-intensive in nature and the company relies on cash generated from its operations and external financing to fund its growth and ongoing capital needs.  limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect the company’s operating results. the company requires significant capital, including access to credit markets from time to time, to operate its current business and fund its growth strategy.  the company’s working capital requirements, including margin requirements on open positions on futures exchanges, are directly affected by the price of agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly.  the company also requires substantial capital to maintain and upgrade its extensive network of storage facilities, processing plants, refineries, mills, ports, transportation assets and other facilities to keep pace with competitive developments, technological advances, regulations and changing safety standards in the industry.  moreover, the expansion of the company’s business and pursuit of acquisitions or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital.  access to credit markets and pricing of the company’s capital is dependent upon maintaining sufficient credit ratings from credit rating agencies.  sufficient credit ratings allow the company to access tier one commercial paper markets. if the company is unable to maintain sufficiently high credit ratings, access to these commercial paper and other debt markets and costs of borrowings could be adversely affected.  if the company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or maintain access to adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, it could restrict the company’s current operations and its growth opportunities which could adversely affect the company’s operating results. the company’s risk management strategies may not be effective.   the company’s business is affected by fluctuations in agricultural commodity cash prices and derivative prices, transportation costs, energy prices, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates.  the company has processes in place to monitor exposures to these risks and engages in strategies to manage these risks.  the company’s monitoring efforts may not be successful at detecting a significant risk exposure.  if these controls and strategies are not successful in mitigating the company’s exposure to these fluctuations, it could adversely affect the company’s operating results.   the company has limited control over and may not realize the expected benefits of its equity investments and joint ventures.   the company has $3.3 billion invested in or advanced to joint ventures and investments over which the company has limited control as to the governance and management activities of these investments.  net sales to unconsolidated affiliates during the year ended december 31, 2013 was $6.9 billion.  the company faces certain risks, including risks related to the financial strength of the investment partner; loss of revenues and cash flows to the investment partner and related gross profit; the inability to implement beneficial management strategies, including risk management and compliance monitoring, with respect to the investment’s activities; and the risk that the company may not be able to resolve disputes with the investment partner.  the company may encounter unanticipated operating issues or financial results related to these investments that may impact the company’s revenues and operating results. 12 item 1a. risk factors (continued) the company’s information technology (it) systems, processes, and sites may suffer interruptions, security breaches, or failures which may affect the company’s ability to conduct its business.   the company’s operations rely on certain key it systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, to provide critical data connectivity, information and services for internal and external users.  these interactions include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, risk management activities, converting raw materials to finished products, inventory management, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, human resources benefits and payroll management, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, and other processes necessary to manage the business.  increased it security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of the company's it systems, networks, and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the company's data. the company has put in place security measures to protect itself against cyber-based attacks and disaster recovery plans for its critical systems.  however, if the company’s it systems are breached, damaged, or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, such as catastrophic events, power outages, security breaches, or cyber-based attacks, and the company’s disaster recovery plans do not effectively mitigate on a timely basis, the company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage its operations, loss of valuable data, and damage to its reputation, which may adversely impact the company’s revenues, operating results, and financial condition. item 1b. unresolved