item 1a. risk factors. risk factors before deciding to invest in us or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report and in our other filings with the sec. we update our descriptions of the risks and uncertainties facing us in our periodic reports filed with the sec. the risks and uncertainties described below and in our other filings are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. if any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. in that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose your investment. if we are unable to timely develop new products or new generations and versions of our existing products to replace our current products, our operating results and competitive position will be materially harmed. our industry is characterized by intense competition, rapidly evolving technology and continually changing customer requirements. these factors could render our existing products obsolete. accordingly, our ability to compete in the future will depend in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new generations and versions of our existing products that achieve market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to respond to changing requirements. if we are unable to do so, our business, operating results and financial condition will be negatively affected. the successful development and market acceptance of our products depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to:     •   our accurate prediction of changing customer requirements;     •   timely development of new designs;     •   timely qualification and certification of our products for use in electronic systems;     •   continued availability on commercially reasonable terms of the technology components and tools licensed from third parties;     •   commercial acceptance and production of the electronic systems into which our products are incorporated;     •   availability, quality, price, performance, and size of our products relative to competing products and technologies;     •   our customer service and support capabilities and responsiveness;     •   successful development of relationships with existing and potential new customers;     •   successful development of relationships with key developers of advanced digital semiconductors;     •   changes in technology and industry standards; and     •   rapidly changing consumer preferences. we have in recent years devoted substantial engineering and financial resources to designing, developing and rolling out new products and technologies, including without limitation our product development arrangement with veloce, discussed in more detail below, and the recent introduction of several new products in our connectivity and computing business units. however, there can be no assurance that veloce’s product development efforts will be successful (see additional risk factor below) or that the other products and technologies we have recently developed and which we are currently developing will achieve market acceptance. if these products and technologies fail to achieve market acceptance, or if we are unable to continue developing   13 table of contents new products and technologies that achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. in addition, for our x-genetm and other server processor products, we are a licensee of the arm v8 64-bit architecture, and will depend upon the continuing timely completion and delivery by arm of various updates and other deliverables under the license agreement. any failure or material delay by arm in completing its deliverables to us under the license could adversely affect our product development arrangement with veloce and other planned server processor products that utilize the arm 64-bit architecture. our agreements with and significant investment in veloce may not result in the successful development of new technologies or products.  as part of our product development efforts, in november 2010 we amended our development agreement with veloce pursuant to which veloce agreed to perform certain arm v8 compliant processor development work for us on an exclusive basis. as compensation for such development work, veloce is receiving cash and other consideration, including a warrant to purchase shares of our common stock, which will vest quarterly through december 2012. we also provided veloce a $1.5 million loan which is being forgiven in equal installments over eight quarters starting on march 31, 2011. pursuant to the development agreement, as amended, we are paying veloce $2.3 million per quarter for up to twelve consecutive quarters in order to assist veloce in meeting its expenses to perform its obligations under the agreement. in july 2011, we agreed to pay veloce an additional $2.0 million over the next four quarters to cover certain increased expenses under the agreement. these additional payments started in july 2011 and will end in the quarter ending june 30, 2012. these amounts have increased in the past and may change again in the future. we also paid, and will likely do so again, certain product development and manufacturing expenses incurred by veloce. under a merger agreement we entered into with veloce in may 2009, as amended in november 2010 and april 2012, we agreed to acquire veloce if certain performance milestones and delivery schedules set forth under the merger agreement are achieved. as amended, the merger agreement provides for us to complete our acquisition of veloce upon its achievement of a specified fpga product development milestone and the satisfaction or waiver of certain closing conditions. it is currently anticipated that the fpga milestone and other closing conditions will be satisfied, and that our acquisition of veloce will be completed, in june 2012. should we acquire veloce pursuant to the merger agreement, as currently amended, the purchase price is estimated to be in the range of $60.4 million up to approximately $135 million, depending upon the achievement and timing of multiple product development milestones and technical performance results. at this time the eventual outcome is not determinable and as such we are unable to provide a narrower range for the estimated total merger consideration. we will update the range in the future when additional relevant information is available. even if we successfully complete the acquisition of veloce as described above, we may fail to appropriately integrate the operations of veloce into the company. although we have spent considerable time and resources in the developmental effort, eventually veloce may be unsuccessful in developing the products that are described in the development and merger agreements, in which case our investment in veloce would not bear any significant value to our business and financial results and condition. we face intense competition and price pressure. the semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. we expect competition to continue to increase as our industry and our competitors evolves and develop. many of our competitors have longer operating histories and presences in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do, and in some cases operate their own fabrication facilities. these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. they may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. we also face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products, and customers who choose to develop their own semiconductor solutions.   14 table of contents existing or new competitors may develop technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. increased competition also has resulted in and is likely to continue to result in increased expenditures on research and development, declining average selling prices, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in certain markets. these factors in turn create increased pressure to consolidate. we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against current or new competitors. if we do not compete successfully, we may lose market share in our existing markets and our revenues may fail to increase or may decline. we and our customers face intense price pressure from competition from companies in lower cost countries like china. in response to these price pressures, our customers could require us to reduce prices which could impact our financial results adversely. these price pressures could cause our customers and us to not be competitive and lose significant revenues. furthermore, our discrete legacy products are being and could continue to be integrated into asics that could cause our revenues from such products to decline at a faster rate. our dependence on third-party manufacturing and supply relationships increases the risk that we will not have an adequate supply of products to meet demand or that our cost of materials will be higher than expected. we depend upon third parties to manufacture, assemble, package or test certain of our products. as a result, we are subject to risks associated with these third parties, including:     •   reduced control over delivery schedules and quality;     •   inadequate manufacturing yields and excessive costs;     •   ability to attract and retain key personnel and to maintain knowledge base;     •   difficulties selecting and integrating new subcontractors;     •   potential lack of adequate capacity at the foundry during periods of excess demand, resulting in significant increases in lead-time requirements and production delays;     •   increased risk of excess and obsolete inventory charges due to the higher level of inventories in response to the increased lead-times;     •   limited warranties on products supplied to us;     •   potential increases in prices;     •   potential instability and business disruption in countries where third-party manufacturers are located; and     •   potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. our outside foundries generally manufacture our products on a purchase order basis, and we have few long-term supply arrangements with these suppliers. we have less control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs than competitors with their own fabrication facilities. a manufacturing disruption or capacity constraint experienced by one or more of our outside foundries or a disruption of our relationship with an outside foundry, including discontinuance of our products by that foundry, would negatively impact the production of certain of our products for a substantial period of time. as our third-party manufacturing suppliers extend their lead time requirements, we will likely need to also extend our lead time requirements to our customers. this could cause our customers to lower their competitive assessment of us as a supplier and, as a result, we may not be considered for future design awards. our ic products are generally only qualified for production at a single foundry. these suppliers can allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production of other companies’ products while reducing deliveries to us on short notice. there is also the potential that they may discontinue manufacturing our products or go out   15 table of contents of business. because establishing relationships, designing or redesigning ics, and ramping production with new outside foundries may take over a year, there is no readily available alternative source of supply for these products. difficulties associated with adapting our technology and product design to the proprietary process technology and design rules of outside foundries can lead to reduced yields of our ic products. the process technology of an outside foundry is typically proprietary to the manufacturer. since low yields may result from either design or process technology failures, yield problems may not be effectively determined or resolved until an actual product exists that can be analyzed and tested to identify process sensitivities relating to the design rules that are used. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process, and resolution of yield problems may require cooperation between us and our manufacturer. this risk could be compounded by the offshore location of certain of our manufacturers, increasing the effort and time required to identify, communicate and resolve manufacturing yield problems. manufacturing defects that we do not discover during the manufacturing or testing process may lead to costly product recalls. these risks may lead to increased costs or delayed product delivery, which would harm our profitability and customer relationships. if the foundries or subcontractors we use to manufacture our products discontinue the manufacturing processes needed to meet our demands, or fail to upgrade their technologies needed to manufacture our products, we may be unable to deliver products to our customers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and harm our reputation. the transition to the next generation of manufacturing technologies at one or more of our outside foundries could be unsuccessful or delayed. our requirements typically represent a very small portion of the total production of the third-party foundries. as a result, we are subject to the risk that a producer will cease production of an older or lower-volume process that it uses to produce our parts. we cannot assure you that our external foundries will continue to devote resources to the production of parts for our products or continue to advance the process design technologies on which the manufacturing of our products are based. each of these events could increase our costs, lower our gross margin, cause us to hold more inventories or materially impact our ability to deliver our products on time. as our volumes decrease with any third-party foundry, the likelihood of unfavorable pricing increases. some companies that supply our customers are similarly dependent on a limited number of suppliers to produce their products. these other companies’ products may be designed into the same networking equipment into which our products are designed. our order levels could be reduced materially if these companies are unable to access sufficient production capacity to produce in volumes demanded by our customers because our customers may be forced to slow down or halt production on the equipment into which our products are designed. natural disasters in certain regions, such as japan and thailand, could adversely affect our manufacturing and supply chain which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. the occurrence of natural disasters in certain regions, such as the earthquake and tsunami in japan and flooding in thailand, could negatively impact our manufacturing and supply chain, our ability to deliver products, on a timely basis or at all, to our customers, the cost of our products, and the demand for our products. the occurrence of natural disasters could also cause delays in our customers’ supply chains, causing them to delay their requirements for our products until they resolve shortages from their other suppliers. any such occurrences of natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition.   16 table of contents we may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry computing technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration and, as a result, may experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. as smaller line width geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to integrate greater levels of functionality into our ic products and to transition our ic products to increasingly smaller geometries. this transition will require us to redesign certain products and will require us and our foundries to migrate to new manufacturing processes for our products. we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis. we periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs and increase performance, and we have designed ic products to be manufactured at as little as .04 micron geometry processes. we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies and new manufacturing processes. these difficulties resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. the transition to smaller geometries is inherently more expensive and as we manufacture more products using smaller geometries, the incremental costs could have an adverse impact on our earnings. we may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our ic products to smaller geometry processes. we are dependent on our relationships with our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. we cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our relationships with our foundries. if we or our foundries experience significant delays in this transition or fail to implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the gross margins for our products could decrease rapidly or not increase as forecasted, which will negatively impact our business, financial conditions and results of operations. the gross margins for our solutions have historically declined over time. factors that we expect to cause downward pressure on the gross margins for our products include competitive pricing pressures, the cost sensitivity of our customers, particularly in the higher-volume markets, new product introductions by us or our competitors, the overall mix of our products sold during a particular quarter, and other factors. from time to time, for strategic reasons, we may accept orders at less than optimal gross margins in order to facilitate the introduction of new products or the market penetration of existing products. to maintain acceptable operating results, we will need to offset any reduction in gross margins of our products by reducing costs, increasing sales volume, developing and introducing new products and developing new generations and versions of existing products on a timely basis. if the gross margins for our products decline or not increase as anticipated and we are unable to offset those reductions, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. the current economic circumstances and uncertain political conditions could harm our revenues, operating results and financial condition. the economies of the united states and other developed or developing countries appear to be slowly emerging from an economic downturn. we cannot predict whether this economic recovery will continue or reverse course. the recent downturn has caused a decline in our near term revenues and it will take some time for our near-term revenues to return to their previous levels. our current operating plans are based on assumptions concerning levels of consumer and corporate spending. if weak global and domestic economic and market conditions persist or deteriorate, we may experience further material impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. if economic conditions worsen, we may have to implement additional cost reduction measures or delay certain r&d spending, which may adversely impact our ability to introduce new products and technologies.   17 table of contents we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types of instruments and maturities. these securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). our portfolio primarily includes fixed income securities, mutual funds and preferred stock, the values of which are subject to market price volatility. the deterioration of these market prices has had an unfavorable impact on our portfolio and has caused us to record impairment charges to our earnings. during the fiscal years ended march 31, 2012 and 2011, we did not record any other-than-temporary impairment charges while during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2010 we recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges of $4.1 million. if market prices continue to decline or securities continue to be in a loss position over time, we may recognize additional impairments in the fair value of our investments. adverse economic and market conditions could also harm our business by negatively affecting the parties with whom we do business, including our business partners, our customers and our suppliers. these conditions could impair the ability of our customers to pay for products they have purchased from us. as a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable from our customers may increase. in addition, our suppliers may experience financial difficulties that could negatively affect their operations and their ability to supply us with the parts we need to manufacture our products. we have invested, and will continue to invest, in privately-held companies, most of which can still be considered to be in startup or developmental stages. these investments are inherently risky as the market for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose all or substantially all of the value of our investments in these companies and, in some cases, we have lost all or substantially all of the value of our investment in such entities. our operating results may fluctuate because of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results are below the expectations of research analysts or investors, then the market price of our common stock could decline. some of the factors that affect our quarterly and annual results, but which are difficult to control or predict, are:     •   communications, information technology and semiconductor industry conditions;     •   fluctuations in the timing and amount of customer requests for product shipments;     •   the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by customers, including as a result of slowing demand for our products or our customers’ products or over-ordering or double booking of our products or our customers’ products;     •   changes in the mix of products that our customers buy;     •   the gain or loss of one or more key customers or their key customers, or significant changes in the financial condition of one or more of our key customers or their key customers;     •   our ability to introduce, certify and deliver new products and technologies on a timely basis;     •   the announcement or introduction of new products and technologies by our competitors;     •   competitive pressures on selling prices;     •   the ability of our customers to obtain components from their other suppliers;     •   market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products;     •   fluctuations in manufacturing output, yields or other problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products or our customers’ products;     •   disasters that could affect our supply chain or our customers supply chain;     •   increases in the costs of products or discontinuance of products by our suppliers;   18 table of contents   •   the availability of external foundry capacity, contract manufacturing services, purchased parts and raw materials including packaging substrates;     •   the availability of package and test vendor capacity;     •   problems or delays that we and our foundries may face in shifting the design and manufacture of our future generations of ic products to smaller geometry process technologies and in achieving higher levels of design and device integration;     •   the amounts and timing of meeting the specifications and expense recovery on non-recurring engineering projects;     •   the amounts and timing of costs associated with warranties and product returns;     •   the amounts and timing of investments in r&d;     •   the product lifecycle and recoverability of capitalized architectural licenses, technology access fees and mask sets;     •   the amounts and timing of the costs associated with payroll taxes related to stock option exercises or settlement of restricted stock units;     •   costs associated with acquisitions and the integration of acquired companies, products and technologies;     •   the impact of potential one-time charges related to purchased intangibles;     •   our ability to successfully integrate acquired companies, products and technologies;     •   the impact on interest income of a significant use of our cash for an acquisition, stock repurchase or other purpose;     •   the effects of changes in interest rates or credit worthiness on the value and yield of our short-term investment portfolio;     •   costs associated with compliance with applicable environmental, other governmental or industry regulations including costs to redesign products to comply with those regulations or lost revenue due to failure to comply in a timely manner;     •   the effects of changes in accounting standards;     •   costs associated with litigation, including without limitation, attorney fees, litigation judgments or settlements, relating to the use or ownership of intellectual property or other claims arising out of our operations;     •   our ability to identify, hire and retain senior management and other key personnel;     •   the effects of war, acts of terrorism or global threats, such as disruptions in general economic activity and changes in logistics and security arrangements; and     •   global economic and industry conditions. our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed if we do not achieve anticipated revenues. we can have revenue shortfalls for a variety of reasons, including:     •   shortages of raw materials or production capacity constraints that lead our suppliers to allocate available supplies or capacity to their other customers, which may disrupt our ability to meet our production obligations;     •   our customers may experience shortages from their suppliers that may cause them to delay orders or deliveries of our products;     •   delays in the availability of our products or our customers’ products;   19 table of contents   •   delays in the availability of the software elements from third party vendors that may cause delays in customers using our hardware products resulting in further delays of bringing our product to market;     •   the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders;     •   declines in the average selling prices of our products;     •   delays when our customers are transitioning from old products to new products;     •   a decrease in demand for our products or our customers’ products;     •   a decline in the financial condition or liquidity of our customers or their customers;     •   the failure of our products to be qualified in our customers’ systems or certified by our customers;     •   excess inventory of our products held by our customers, resulting in a reduction in their order patterns as they work through the excess inventory of our products;     •   fabrication, test, product yield, or assembly constraints for our products that adversely affect our ability to meet our production obligations;     •   the failure of one or more of our subcontract manufacturers to perform its obligations to us;     •   our failure to successfully integrate acquired companies, products and technologies; and     •   global economic and industry conditions. our business is characterized by short-term orders and shipment schedules. customer orders typically can be cancelled or rescheduled without significant penalty to the customer. because we do not have substantial non-cancellable backlog, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which is highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. customer orders for our products typically have non-standard lead times, which make it difficult for us to predict revenues and plan inventory levels and production schedules. if we are unable to plan inventory levels and production schedules effectively, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. from time to time, in response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from our outside contract manufacturers, suppliers and foundries, we may order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. this advance ordering has in the past resulted and may in the future result in excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs if expected orders fail to materialize, or other factors render our products less marketable. if we are forced to hold excess inventory or we incur unanticipated inventory write-downs, our financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short-term and are based on our expectations of future revenues. we have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. changes to production volumes and impact of overhead absorption may result in a decline in our financial condition or liquidity. our business is dependent on the pace of recovery of the communications industry. we are currently seeing certain signs that would indicate to us that we can expect the slowdown in our connectivity business to reverse in the near future. it is possible that our estimations are incorrect and that it will take longer for the reversal of the slowdown to occur, or that our estimated market share in the connectivity space is in fact much lower than we anticipate. our liquidity may deteriorate on our future uses of cash although we currently believe we have adequate liquidity to operate normally, our cash balances could decrement significantly if we decide to pay for the veloce acquisition using a greater proportion of cash or if our   20 table of contents normal operations require us to expend more cash. if our cash balances decline significantly, we may be faced with liquidity issues and may be forced to raise capital from other sources, which may or may not be possible to do so on reasonable terms. interruptions, delays, security breaches or other unauthorized activities at third-party data centers or other cloud computing infrastructure providers could materially harm our business. we conduct significant business functions and computer operations, including without limitation data storage and email, using the infrastructure systems of third-party vendors, such as remote data centers, virtual servers and other “cloud computing” resources. “cloud computing” is an information technology hosting and delivery system in which data is stored outside of the user’s physical infrastructure and is delivered to and used by the user as an internet-based application service. these third-party systems may experience cyber attacks and other security breaches, along with the possible risk of loss, theft or unauthorized publication of our technical, proprietary and trade secret information or other confidential information of our employees and customers. any interruptions or problems at such data centers or other cloud computing facilities could result in significant disruptions to our business operations hosted at or affected by such site. we do not control the operation of such data center or other providers, and each is vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, vandalism, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. these third-party vendor relationships present further risk management challenges for us, including, among others: confirming and monitoring the third-party’s security measures; the potential for improper handling of or access to our data; and data location uncertainty, including the possibility of data storage in inappropriate jurisdictions, where laws or security measures may be inadequate, or the unauthorized movement of technical data between locations in violation of applicable export laws. we undertake substantial efforts to assure the security and confidentiality of information provided to our vendors under cloud computing or other arrangements through appropriate risk evaluation, security and financial due diligence, contracts designed to set and maintain high security and confidentiality standards, and ongoing evaluation of third-party compliance with the required standards. while we expend significant resources on these measures, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in preventing attacks, breaches or other unauthorized activities or detecting and stopping them once they have begun. our failure to effectively manage and communicate our strategies with our outsourced service providers, or their failure to perform as required or to properly protect our data, may result in operational difficulties which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, such data center and other providers have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. if we are unable to renew our agreements with the data center and other providers on commercially reasonable terms, we may experience costs or down time in connection with the transfer to new third-party providers. we are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and are therefore limited in our visibility of future product shipments. our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns business. we measure turns business at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment forecasts that we set entering the quarter. historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments. turns business correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. because turns business is difficult to predict, varying levels of turns business make our net sales more difficult to forecast. if we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns business in a particular quarter relative to our revenue forecasts, our revenue and operation results may suffer.   21 table of contents our business is dependent on selling to distributors. sales to distributors accounted for approximately 58% of our revenues during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2012 and 46% during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2011. our largest distributor accounted for approximately 20% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2012 and 29% during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2011. we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and either party can terminate the relationship with little advance notice any future adverse conditions in the u.s. and global economies or in the u.s. and global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors. any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operations. in addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in sell-through of our products by our distributors which could cause them to hold excess inventories and reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in stock rotations. our business substantially depends upon the continued growth of the technology sector and the internet. the technology equipment industry is cyclical and has in the past experienced significant and extended downturns. the recent downturn was significant and we cannot predict if the current improvement is sustainable in the near future. a substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on the continued growth of the technology sector and the internet. we sell our communications ic products primarily to communications equipment manufacturers that in turn sell their equipment to customers that depend on the growth of the internet. the past downturn has caused a reduction in capital spending on information technology. while we are beginning to see indications of improvement, there are no guarantees that this growth will sustain, resulting in potential volatility. if there is another downturn, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. the loss of one or more key customers, the diminished demand for our products from a key customer, or the failure to obtain certifications from a key customer or its distribution channel could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. a relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues in any particular period. we have no long-term volume purchase commitments from our key customers. one or more of our key customers may discontinue operations as a result of consolidation, bankruptcy or otherwise. reductions, delays and cancellation of orders from our key customers or the loss of one or more key customers could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. we cannot assure you that our current customers will continue to place orders with us, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. our ability to maintain or increase sales to key customers and attract significant new customers is subject to a variety of factors, including:     •   supply constraints and manufacturing delays by our outside foundries may result in significantly reduced volumes and delayed deliveries of our products;     •   customers may stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and may suffer little or no penalty as a result of such action;     •   customers or prospective customers may not incorporate our products into their future product designs;     •   design wins (as explained below) with customers or prospective customers may not result in sales to such customers;     •   the introduction of new products by customers may occur later or be less successful in the market than planned;   22 table of contents   •   we may successfully design a product to customer specifications but the customer may not be successful in the market;     •   sales of customer product lines incorporating our products may rapidly decline or such product lines may be phased out;     •   our agreements with customers typically are non-exclusive and do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products;     •   many of our customers have pre-existing relationships with our current or potential competitors that may cause our customers to switch from using our products to using competing products;     •   some of our oem customers may develop products internally that would replace our products;     •   we may not be able to successfully develop relationships with additional network equipment vendors;     •   our relationships with some of our larger customers may deter other potential customers (who compete with these customers) from buying our products;     •   the impact of terminating certain sales representatives or sales personnel as a result of a company workforce reduction or otherwise; and     •   some of our customers and prospective customers may become less viable or fail. the occurrence of any one of the factors above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. there is no guarantee that design wins will become actual orders and sales. a “design win” occurs when a customer or prospective customer notifies us that our product has been selected to be integrated with the customer’s product. there can be delays of several months or more between the design win and when a customer initiates actual orders of our product. following a design win, we will commit significant resources to the integration of our product into the customer’s product before receiving the initial order. receipt of an initial order from a customer following a design win, however, is dependent on a number of factors, including the success of the customer’s product, and cannot be guaranteed. the design win may never result in an actual order or sale of our products. any significant order cancellations or order deferrals could cause unplanned inventory growth resulting in excess inventory, which may adversely affect our operating results. our customers may increase orders during periods of product shortages or cancel orders if their inventories are too high. major inventory corrections by our customers are not uncommon and can last for significant periods of time and affect demand for our products. customers may also cancel or delay orders in anticipation of new products or for other reasons. cancellations or deferrals could cause us to hold excess inventory, which could reduce our profit margins by reducing sales prices, incurring inventory write-downs or writing off additional obsolete products. the book-to-bill ratio is commonly used by investors to compare and evaluate technology and semiconductor companies. the book-to-bill ratio is a demand-to-supply ratio that compares the total amount of orders received to the total amount of orders filled. this ratio tells whether the company has more orders than it delivered (if greater than 1), has the same amount of orders that it delivered (equals 1), or has less orders than it delivered (under 1). though the ratio provides an indicator of whether orders are rising or falling, it does not consider the timing of, or if the order will result in future revenues and the effect of changing lead times on bookings. as lead times increase, customers will place orders sooner, therefore increasing our bookings and book-to-bill ratio.   23 table of contents the increasing lead times from our suppliers cause us to make commitments for inventory purchases earlier in our production cycle which in turn increases our risk of having excess inventory. in addition, some of our suppliers are delivering based on allocations which in turn cause us to increase our inventory levels. we must balance our inventory levels between the risk of losing a significant customer to a competitor because we cannot meet our customer’s requirements and the risk of having excess inventory if a significant order is cancelled. inventory fluctuations could affect our results of operations and restrict our ability to fund our operations. inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times, meet customer expectations and guard against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and customer requirements. we generally recognize revenue upon shipment of products to a customer. if a customer refuses to accept shipped products or does not pay for these products, we could miss future revenue projections or incur significant charges against our income, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our customers’ products typically have lengthy design cycles. a customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to lose anticipated sales. after we have developed and delivered a product to a customer, the customer will usually test and evaluate our product prior to designing its own equipment to incorporate our product. our customers may need more than six months to test, evaluate and adopt our product and an additional nine months or more to begin volume production of the equipment or devices that incorporate our product. due to this generally lengthy design cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we increase our operating expenses and make investments in inventory until the time that we generate revenue from these products. it is possible that we may never generate any revenue from these products after incurring such expenditures. even if a customer selects our product to incorporate into its equipment, we cannot guarantee that the customer will ultimately market and sell its equipment or devices that such efforts by our customer will be successful. the delays inherent in this lengthy design cycle increases the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or change its product plans. such a cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause us to lose sales that we had anticipated. while our customers’ design cycles are typically long, some of our product life cycles tend to be short as a result of the rapidly changing technology environment in which we operate. as a result, the resources devoted to r&d, product sales and marketing may not generate material revenue for us, and from time to time, we may need to write off excess and obsolete inventory. if we incur significant r&d and marketing expenses and investments in inventory in the future that we are not able to recover, and we are not able to mitigate those expenses, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, if we sell our products at reduced prices in anticipation of cost reductions but still hold higher cost products in inventory, our operating results would be harmed. an important part of our strategy is to focus on the markets for communications equipment. if we change strategy or are unable to further expand our share of these markets or react timely or properly to emerging trends, our revenues may not grow and could decline. our markets frequently undergo transitions in which products rapidly incorporate new features and performance standards on an industry-wide basis. if our products are unable to support the new features or performance levels required by oems in these markets, or if our products fail to be certified by oems, we will lose business from an existing or potential customer and may not have the opportunity to compete for new design wins or certification until the next product transition occurs. if we fail to develop products with required features or performance standards, or if we experience a delay as short as a few months in certifying or bringing a new product to market, or if our customers fail to achieve market acceptance of their products, our revenues could be significantly reduced for a substantial period. we expect a significant portion of our revenues to continue to be derived from sales of products based on current, widely accepted transmission standards. if the communications market evolves to new standards, we may not be able to successfully design and manufacture new products that address the needs of our customers or gain substantial market acceptance.   24 table of contents if we do not identify and pursue the correct emerging trends and align ourselves with the correct market leaders, we may not be successful and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. customers for our products generally have substantial technological capabilities and financial resources. some customers have traditionally used these resources to internally develop their own products. the future prospects for our products in these markets are dependent upon our customers’ acceptance of our products as an alternative to their internally developed products. future sales prospects also are dependent upon acceptance of third-party sourcing for products as an alternative to in-house development. network equipment vendors may in the future continue to use internally developed components. they also may decide to develop or acquire components, technologies or products that are similar to, or that may be substituted for, our products. if our network equipment vendor customers fail to accept our products as an alternative, if they develop or acquire the technology to develop such components internally rather than purchase our products, or if we are otherwise unable to develop or maintain strong relationships with them, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. our business strategy contemplates the acquisition of other companies, products and technologies. merger and acquisition activities involve numerous risks and we may not be able to address these risks successfully without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems that could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations and financial condition. acquiring products, technologies or businesses from third parties, making equity investments in companies developing such products, technologies or businesses, and making additional investments in companies in which we already have an interest are all part of our long-term business strategy. the risks involved with merger and acquisition and equity investment activities include:     •   diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses;     •   failure to integrate or potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired companies;     •   difficulty in completing an acquired company’s in-process research or development projects;     •   customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired company’s products or services;     •   adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;     •   costs associated with acquisitions, mergers or investments;     •   difficulties associated with combining or integrating acquired companies, purchased operations, products or technologies;     •   difficulties and risks associated with entering and competing in markets that are unfamiliar to us; and     •   ability of the acquired companies to meet their financial projections. in addition, in the event of any such investments, mergers or acquisitions, we could;     •   issue stock that would dilute, in some cases significantly, our current stockholders’ percentage ownership;     •   use a significant portion of our cash reserves or incur debt;     •   assume liabilities, including unknown liabilities or other unanticipated costs, events or circumstances;     •   incur amortization or impairment expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets and deferred compensation; and     •   incur large and immediate write-offs.   25 table of contents any of these risks could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. as with past acquisitions, future acquisitions could adversely affect operating results. in particular, acquisitions may materially and adversely affect our results of operations because they may require large one-time charges or could result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, unanticipated third-party litigation, adverse tax consequences, substantial additional depreciation or deferred compensation charges. our past purchase acquisitions required us to capitalize significant amounts of goodwill and purchased intangible assets. as a result of the slowdown in our industry and reduction of our market capitalization, we have been required to record significant impairment charges against these assets as noted in our previous financial statements. these market conditions continuously change and it is difficult to project how long these current uncertain economic conditions may last. these conditions have caused a decline in our near term revenues and it will take some time to ramp back up to our previous levels, if at all. additionally, market values had deteriorated, which had an unfavorable impact on our valuations which are part of the goodwill and purchased intangible asset impairment tests. there can be no assurances that market conditions will not deteriorate further or that our market capitalization will not decline further. at march 31, 2012, we had $29.8 million of goodwill and purchased intangible assets. we cannot assure you that we will not be required to take significant charges as a result of impairment to the carrying value of the purchased intangible assets, due to further adverse changes in market conditions. in september 2010, we completed the acquisition of tpack for $32 million in cash, exclusive of $0.5 million cash acquired, and potentially up to an additional $5 million if certain performance milestones are achieved during an 18 month period following the closing of the acquisition. in conjunction with the acquisition, we recorded $23.7 million in amortizable intangible assets and $13.2 million in goodwill. please see note 12 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. in january 2011, tpack’s primary supplier of fpgas announced it had acquired a competitor of tpack. this supplier will continue to provide fpgas for tpack’s current products and products currently under development, but not for any future products. while we were negotiating with another supplier of fpgas, they too acquired a competitor of tpack in march 2011. the increased competition from these synergistic acquisitions could adversely affect the future revenue streams from tpack as we implement a library strategy where customers can choose either fpga supplier. the financial forecasts and other assumptions used to evaluate the acquisition that is included as part of the overall reporting unit may not materialize as expected. in april 2012, the company amended its original merger agreement with veloce and proposes to acquire veloce for an initial consideration of $60.4 million with potential additional consideration that could range from $0 to $75 million, as adjusted based upon actual technical performance results. the acquisition is expected to close in june 2012. our industry and markets are subject to consolidation, which may result in stronger competitors, fewer customers and reduced demand. there has been industry consolidation among communications ic companies, network equipment companies and telecommunications companies in the past, such as the acquisition of seamicro inc. by advanced micro devices in february 2012, netlogic microsystems, inc. by broadcom corporation in february 2012 and gennum corporation by semtech corporation in march 2012. we expect this consolidation to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their positions in evolving markets. consolidation may result in stronger competitors, fewer customers and reduced demand, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our operating results are subject to fluctuations because we rely heavily on international sales. international sales account for a significant part of our revenues and may account for an increasing portion of our future revenues. the revenues we derive from international sales may be subject to certain risks, including:     •   foreign currency exchange fluctuations;   26 table of contents   •   changes in regulatory requirements;     •   tariffs, rising protectionism and other barriers;     •   timing and availability of export licenses;     •   political and economic instability;     •   natural disasters;     •   increased exposure to liability under u.s and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations;     •   difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;     •   difficulties in managing distributors;     •   difficulties in obtaining governmental and export approvals for communications, processors and other products;     •   reduced or uncertain protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;     •   longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in some countries;     •   burdens of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties;     •   potentially adverse tax consequences; and     •   an uncertain economic condition that may trail any improvements in the united states. we are subject to risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products, information and technology. we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products will be implemented by the united states or other countries. because sales of our products have been denominated to date primarily in united states dollars, increases in the value of the united states dollar could increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. future international activity may result in increased foreign currency denominated sales. gains and losses on the conversion to united states dollars of accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. some of our customer purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from laws in the united states, or may require that dispute resolution occur in a foreign country. as a result, our ability to enforce our rights under such agreements may be limited compared with our ability to enforce our rights under agreements governed by laws in the united states and adjudicated in the united states. our foreign operations may subject us to risks relating to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar foreign anti-bribery regulations that may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our international operations are also subject to laws regarding the conduct of business overseas, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and similar anti-bribery regulations in foreign jurisdictions where we do business, such as china, india, vietnam and in europe. the fcpa prohibits the provision of illegal or improper inducements to foreign government officials in connection with obtaining or retaining business overseas or to secure an improper commercial advantage. the fcpa also requires us to keep accurate books and records of business transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. violations of the fcpa or other similar laws by us, any of our foreign subsidiaries, or any of our or their employees, executive officers, distributors or other agents or intermediaries could subject us and the individuals involved to significant criminal or civil liability. in recent years, the department of justice and sec have significantly stepped up their   27 table of contents investigation and prosecution of alleged fcpa violations. any such allegations of non-compliance with the fcpa or other similar laws could harm our reputation, divert management attention and result in significant expenses, and could therefore materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. our portfolio of short-term investments is exposed to certain market risks. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types of instruments and maturities. these securities are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. our investment portfolio is exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and credit ratings of the issuers, as well as to the risks of default by the issuers and lack of overall market liquidity. substantially all of these securities are subject to interest rate and credit rating risk and will decline in value if interest rates increase or one of the issuers’ credit ratings is reduced. increases in interest rates or decreases in the credit worthiness of one or more of the issuers in our investment portfolio could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2010, we recorded $4.1 million in write-downs in the carrying value of certain securities as we determined the decline in the fair value of these securities to be other-than-temporary. if there is a further deterioration in market conditions or there are additional losses incurred, we may be required to record a further decline in the carrying value of these securities resulting in further charges. at march 31, 2012, the unrealized losses on these securities that were not written down as an other-than-temporary impairment charge were approximately $1.7 million, of which substantially the entire amount has been at an unrealized loss for greater than 12 months. if the fair value of any of these securities does not recover to at least the amortized cost of such security or we are unable to hold these securities until they recover, we may be required to record a decline in the carrying value of these securities. our restructuring activities could result in management distractions, operational disruptions and other difficulties. over the past several years, we have initiated several restructuring activities in an effort to reduce operating costs and such restructuring activities are likely to continue. employees whose positions were eliminated in connection with these restructuring activities may seek employment with our competitors, customers or suppliers. although each of our employees is required to sign a confidentiality agreement with us at the time of hire, which agreement contains covenants prohibiting among other things the disclosure or use of our confidential information and the solicitation of our employees, we cannot guarantee that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment, or that our key continuing employees will not be solicited to terminate their employment with us. any additional restructuring efforts could divert the attention of our management away from our operations, harm our reputation, increase our expenses, increase the work load placed upon remaining employees and cause our remaining employees to lose confidence in the future performance of the company and decide to leave. we cannot guarantee that any additional restructuring activities undertaken in the future will be successful, or that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our previous or future restructuring plans. in addition, if we continue to reduce our workforce, it may adversely impact our ability to respond rapidly to new growth opportunities. our markets are subject to rapid technological change, so our success depends heavily on our ability to develop and introduce new products. the markets for our products are characterized by:     •   rapidly changing technologies;     •   evolving and competing industry standards;     •   changing customer needs;     •   frequent introductions of new products and enhancements;   28 table of contents   •   increased integration with other functions;     •   long design and sales cycles;     •   short product life cycles; and     •   intense competition. to develop new products for the communications or other technology markets, we must develop, gain access to and use leading technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner and continue to develop technical and design expertise. we must have our products designed into our customers’ future products and maintain close working relationships with key customers in order to develop new products that meet customers’ changing needs. we must respond to changing industry standards, trends towards increased integration and other technological changes on a timely and cost-effective basis. our pursuit of technological advances may require substantial time and expense and may ultimately prove unsuccessful. if we are not successful in adopting such advances, we may be unable to timely bring to market new products and our revenues will suffer. many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. the markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in these markets in the future. the markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we expect that domestic and international competition will increase in these markets, due in part to deregulation, rapid technological advances, price erosion, changing customer preferences and evolving industry standards. increased competition could result in significant price competition, reduced revenues, lower profit margins or loss of market share. our ability to compete successfully in our markets depends on a number of factors, including:     •   our ability to partner with oem and channel partners who are successful in the market;     •   success in designing and subcontracting the manufacture of new products that implement new technologies;     •   product quality, interoperability, reliability, performance and certification;     •   our ability to attract and retain key engineering, operations, sales and marketing employees and management;     •   customer support;     •   time-to-market;     •   price;     •   production efficiency;     •   design wins;     •   expansion of production of our products for particular systems manufacturers;     •   end-user acceptance of the systems manufacturers’ products;     •   market acceptance of competitors’ products; and     •   general economic conditions.   29 table of contents our competitors may offer enhancements to existing products, or offer new products based on new technologies, industry standards or customer requirements that are available to customers on a more timely basis than comparable products from us or that have the potential to replace or provide lower cost alternatives to our products. the introduction of enhancements or new products by our competitors could render our existing and future products obsolete or unmarketable. we expect that certain of our competitors and other semiconductor companies may seek to develop and introduce products that integrate the functions performed by our ic products on a single chip, thus eliminating the need for our products. each of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the transport communications ic markets, we compete primarily against companies such as broadcom, cortina, pmc-sierra and vitesse. in the embedded processor communications ic market, we compete with technology companies such as freescale semiconductor, cavium and intel. many of these companies may have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we have. certain of our customers or potential customers have internal ic design or manufacturing capabilities with which we compete. we may also face competition from new entrants to our target markets, including larger technology companies that may develop or acquire differentiating technology and then apply their resources to our detriment. any failure by us to compete successfully in these target markets would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operating results depend on manufacturing output and yields of our ics and printed circuit board assemblies, which may not meet expectations. the yields on wafers we have manufactured decline whenever a substantial percentage of wafers must be rejected or a significant number of die on each wafer are nonfunctional. such declines can be caused by many factors, including minute levels of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, design issues, defects in masks used to print circuits on a wafer and difficulties in the fabrication process. design iterations and process changes by our suppliers can cause a risk of defects. many of these problems are difficult to diagnose, are time consuming and expensive to remedy and can result in shipment delays. we estimate yields per wafer and final packaged parts in order to estimate the value of inventory. if yields are materially different than projected, work-in-process inventory may need to be re-valued. we may have to take inventory write-downs as a result of decreases in manufacturing yields. we may suffer periodic yield problems in connection with new or existing products or in connection with the commencement of production using a new design geometry or at a new manufacturing facility. we must develop or otherwise gain access to improved ic process technologies. our future success will depend upon our ability to access new ic process technologies. in the future, we will be required to transition one or more of our ic products to process technologies with smaller geometries, other materials or higher speeds in order to reduce costs or improve product performance. we may not be able to gain access to new process technologies in a timely or affordable manner or products based on these new technologies may not achieve market acceptance. the complexity of our products may lead to errors, defects and bugs, which could negatively impact our reputation with customers and result in liability. products as complex as ours may contain errors, defects and bugs when first introduced or as new versions are released. our products have in the past experienced such errors, defects and bugs. delivery of products with production defects or reliability, quality or compatibility problems could significantly delay or hinder market acceptance of the products or result in a costly recall and could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. errors, defects or bugs could cause problems with device functionality, resulting in interruptions, delays or cessation of sales to our customers.   30 table of contents we may also be required to make significant expenditures of capital and resources to resolve such problems. we cannot assure you that problems will not be found in new products after commencement of commercial production, despite testing by us, our suppliers or our customers. any such problems could result in:     •   additional development costs;     •   loss of, or delays in, market acceptance;     •   diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts;     •   claims by our customers or others against us; and     •   loss of credibility with our current and prospective customers. any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into which we ship out products could levy fines or restrict our ability to export products. a significant portion of our sales are made outside of the u.s. through the exporting and re-exporting of products. in addition to local jurisdictions’ export regulations, our u.s.-manufactured products and products based on u.s. technology are subject to u.s. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports. these laws and regulations include, but not limited to, the foreign corrupt practices act, the export administration regulations (“ear”), and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the u.s. department of the treasury, office of foreign assets control (“ofac”). licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries as well as for the transfer of certain information and technology to certain foreign countries, foreign nationals or other prohibited persons within the united states or abroad. a determination by the u.s. or local government that we have failed to comply with these or other export or anti-bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, fines, civil and criminal penalties and seizure of products. such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our ability to meet our sales and earnings forecasts. further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to export to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties. any one or more of these sanctions or a change in laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. potential u.s. tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could materially and adversely impact our business and financial results. currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the u.s. and a substantial portion of our employees are located outside the u.s. present u.s. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for our non–u.s. subsidiaries, because such earning are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. if our internal control over financial reporting is not considered effective, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on form 10-k for that fiscal year. section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s   31 table of contents objectives will be met. further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of control must be considered relative to their costs. because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of internal control can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud involving a company have been, or will be, detected. the design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. over time, our internal control over financial reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. our management has concluded, and our independent registered public accounting firm has attested, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of march 31, 2012. we cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report our internal control over financial reporting as ineffective. if our internal control over financial reporting is not considered effective, we may experience a restatement like we have in the past of our financial statements and/or a loss of public confidence, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. our future success depends in part on the continued service of our key senior management, design engineering, sales, marketing, and manufacturing personnel, our ability to identify, hire and retain additional, qualified personnel and successful succession planning. our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our senior management and engineering personnel and successful succession planning. the loss of key senior executives or engineers could have a material adverse effect on our business. there is intense competition for qualified personnel in the semiconductor industry, in particular design, product and test engineers. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain engineers or other qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business, or to replace engineers or other qualified personnel who may leave our employment in the future. we also face the risks associated with our former employees assisting their new employers to recruit our key talent, in violation of their contractual non-solicitation and confidentiality covenants to us. for example, in december 2010 we commenced a lawsuit in the california superior court in santa clara county against two former appliedmicro employees — one of whom was a former company officer — and their new employer for causes of action including, among other things, breach of the employees’ contractual non-solicitation covenants to us in connection with their efforts to recruit key appliedmicro engineers to join their new company. in august 2011, following the results of our discovery in that action, we amended our complaint to add an additional defendant and additional causes of action, including breach of fiduciary duty and new breach of contract and contract interference claims. in such action, which is not yet scheduled for trial, we are seeking damages, including exemplary and punitive damages, injunctive relief and costs of suit. in addition, while we encourage our employees to abide by all contractual and legal obligations owed to their former employers, there can be no assurance that we will not be the target of allegations made by other companies that we have, directly or indirectly, unlawfully solicited their employees to join us. there are significant costs associated with recruiting, hiring and retaining personnel, as well as significant actual and potential losses to our business arising from the delays in or cancellation of technology development, product completion and roll-out, customer design wins and product orders, and sales revenues caused by the departure of key engineering resources. to manage our operations effectively, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management systems and to successfully hire, train, motivate, and manage our employees. also, the integration of future business acquisitions would require significant additional management, technical and administrative resources. we cannot guarantee that we would be able to manage our expanded operations effectively.   32 table of contents periods of contraction in our business may also inhibit our ability to attract and retain our personnel. as we respond to declining revenues and/or implement additional cost improvement measures such as reductions in force, our remaining key employees may lose confidence in the future performance of the company and decide to leave. loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key design engineers or other technical and management personnel could be significantly detrimental to our product development or other aspects of our business. our ability to supply a sufficient number of products to meet demand could be severely hampered by a shortage of water, electricity or other supplies or by natural disasters or other catastrophes or by the effects of war, acts of terrorism or global threats. the manufacture of our products requires significant amounts of water. previous droughts have resulted in restrictions being placed on water use by manufacturers. in the event of a future drought, reductions in water use may be mandated generally and our external foundries’ ability to manufacture our products could be impaired. several of our facilities, including our principal executive offices, are located in california. california has experienced prolonged energy alerts and blackouts caused by disruption in energy supplies. as a consequence, businesses and other energy consumers in california continue to experience substantially increased costs of electricity and natural gas. we are unsure whether energy alerts and blackouts will reoccur or how severe they may become in the future. many of our customers and suppliers are also headquartered or have substantial operations in california. if we or any of our major customers or suppliers located in california experience a sustained disruption in energy supplies, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. a significant portion of our manufacturing operations are located in asia. these areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes or floods, like japan and thailand. we do not have earthquake insurance for these facilities, because adequate coverage is not offered at economically justifiable rates. a significant natural disaster or other catastrophic event could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. the effects of war, acts of terrorism or global threats, including, but not limited to, the outbreak of epidemic disease, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to local and global economies and create further uncertainties. to the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we could incur substantial fines or litigation costs associated with our storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials. we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. any failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines, the suspension of production or a cessation of operations. these regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations or clean up prior discharges. since 1993, we have been named as a potentially responsible party (“prp”) along with more than 100 other companies that used omega chemical corporation waste treatment facility in whittier, california (the “omega site”). the u.s. environmental protection agency (“epa”) has alleged that the omega site failed to properly treat and dispose of certain hazardous waste material. we are a member of a large group of prps that has agreed to fund certain on-going remediation efforts at the omega site and with respect to the regional groundwater allegedly contaminated thereby.   33 table of contents in 2007, the prps were sued by a chemical company located downstream from the omega site, seeking a judicial determination that the omega prps are responsible for some or all of the plaintiff’s potential liability to clean up groundwater contamination beneath plaintiff’s site; that action has been stayed since march 2008 to allow for further delineation of the regional groundwater. in september 2011, epa issued an interim remedial action proposal, designed to arrest the further spread of groundwater contamination; in the next few months epa is expected to notify the prps with requests to implement the interim remedial action. in 2010, a toxic tort litigation was commenced against omega and the prp group by individuals alleging injuries caused by the omega site; trial in such action has been scheduled for november 2012. based on currently available information, we have a loss accrual for the omega site that is not material and we believe that the actual amount of costs and liabilities will not be materially different from the amount accrued. however, proceedings are ongoing and the eventual outcome of the clean-up efforts and the pending litigation matters is uncertain at this time. based on currently available information, we do not believe that any eventual outcome will have a material adverse effect on our operations but we cannot guarantee this result. in 2009, the u.s. supreme court decided u.s. v. burlington northern & santa fe railway co., 129 s.ct. 1870, which determined that hazardous substance cleanup liability need not be joint and several in all cases. as a result of this decision, the liability is potentially divisible among the prps at an earlier stage in superfund cases such as omega. at this time we do not know and cannot predict the full impact of this decision on our liability. in november 2011, a significant member of the prp group withdrew from the group. in january 2012, as a result of the prp group’s modification of its allocation formulae and group member withdrawal, our proportional allocation of responsibility among the prps for the current remediation space increased. any future increases to our proportional allocation of responsibility among the prps or the future reduction of parties participating in the prp group due to additional member withdrawals could materially increase our potential liability relating to the omega site. although we believe that we have been and currently are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that we are or will be in material compliance with these laws or regulations or that our future obligations to fund any remediation efforts, including those at the omega site, or expenses and potential liabilities relating to the pending litigation matters, will not have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. customers demands and new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act may require disclosure of use of “conflict” minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries and efforts to prevent the use of such minerals. in the semiconductor industry, these minerals are most commonly found in metals. as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” metals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary metals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. also, since our supply chain is complex and some suppliers will not share their confidential supplier information, we may face challenges with our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are “conflict free.” some customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier and we may have to write off inventory in the event that it becomes unsalable as a result of these regulations. environmental laws and regulations could cause a disruption in our business and operations. we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making manufacturers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including various european union (“eu”) member countries. for example, the eu has enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (“rohs”) and the waste electrical and   34 table of contents electronic equipment (“weee”) directives. rohs prohibits the use of lead and other substances in semiconductors and other products put on the market after july 1, 2006. the weee directive obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment on the market in the eu to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to eu member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take back and properly dispose of the equipment. there can be no assurance that similar programs will not be implemented in other jurisdictions resulting in additional costs, possible delays in delivering products, and even the discontinuance of existing and planned future product replacements if the cost were to become prohibitive. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property adequately. we rely in part on patents to protect our ip. we cannot assure you that our pending patent applications or any future applications will be approved, or that any issued patents will adequately protect the ip in our products and processes, will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties or that if challenged, any such patents will be found to be valid or enforceable. others may independently develop similar products or processes, duplicate our products or processes or design around any patents we currently hold or that may be issued to us. to protect our ip, we also rely on the combination of mask work protection under the federal semiconductor chip protection act of 1984, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements. despite these efforts, we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent ip or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or ip, or disclose such ip or trade secrets, or that we can meaningfully protect our ip. a failure by us to meaningfully protect our ip could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers, customers and strategic partners. we also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. despite these efforts, parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors and we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. additionally, former employees or third parties could attempt to penetrate our network to misappropriate our proprietary information or interrupt our business. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. as a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated, particularly in foreign countries where laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states. we could be harmed by litigation involving patents, proprietary rights or other claims. litigation may be necessary to enforce our ip rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation. the semiconductor industry is characterized by substantial litigation regarding patent and other ip rights. currently the company is not a named defendant in any ip infringement lawsuits. nevertheless, as our products and ip become instantiated in more and more customer products and applications, and as patent infringement litigation brought by our competitors, non-practicing entities (also known as “patent trolls”) and patent-licensing companies is on the rise, we are at an increased risk of being named as a defendant in such litigation. due in part to the factors described above, the company has been or currently is subject to the following:     •   having information about our products and technologies subpoenaed in patent litigation between other third parties;     •   demands that we enter into expensive licenses of third party patent portfolios in order to avoid being named as a defendant in future ip infringement suits; and   35 table of contents   •   claims demanding that we indemnify customers or end users of our products with respect to their potential liability, including without limitation defense costs, arising from third party ip infringement claims brought against them. such claims, demands and litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, including the attention of our management and technical personnel, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be accused of infringing on or misappropriating the ip rights of third parties. in addition, we have contractual indemnification obligations to some of our customers, and other customers or end users may assert we have duties to indemnify them, with respect to claims that our products infringe third-party ip rights. for example, in connection with the patent infringement lawsuit previously brought by broadcom corporation against emulex corporation in the united states district court in the central district of california, emulex has demanded that several of its components suppliers, including appliedmicro, indemnify emulex from and against certain legal expenses and other potential liabilities arising from the lawsuit. although we are a supplier of components used by emulex in certain products accused in the broadcom litigation, we do not currently believe we have any obligations under the terms of our existing supply agreement with emulex to indemnify it with respect to the broadcom litigation. notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that ip infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, or additional claims for indemnification by customers or end users resulting from infringement claims against them, will not be asserted in the future, or that any such existing or future assertions will not harm our business. any litigation relating to the ip rights of third parties would at a minimum be costly and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. in the event of any adverse ruling in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacturing, use and sale of infringing products, discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain a license under the ip rights of the third party claiming infringement. a license might not be available on reasonable, economic and other terms or at all. from time to time, we may be involved in litigation relating to other claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business. the ultimate outcome of any such litigation matters could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. our stock price is volatile. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. in the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general economic and market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in:     •   our anticipated or actual operating results;     •   announcements or introductions of new products by us or our competitors;     •   anticipated or actual operating results of our customers, peers or competitors;     •   technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors;     •   conditions in the semiconductor, communications or information technology markets;     •   the commencement or outcome of litigation or governmental investigations;     •   changes in ratings and estimates of our performance by securities analysts;     •   announcements of merger or acquisition transactions;     •   management changes;     •   our inclusion in certain stock indices; and     •   other events or factors.   36 table of contents the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many high technology companies, particularly semiconductor companies. in some instances, these fluctuations appear to have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. whether or not our stock is part of one or more index funds could have a significant impact on our stock. we cannot assure you that our stock will be part of any index fund. in addition, the current decline of the financial markets and related factors beyond our control, including the credit and mortgage crisis in both the u.s. and worldwide, may cause our stock price to decline rapidly and unexpectedly. delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. provisions in our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and our bylaws, as amended and restated, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our directors and management. these provisions include the following:     •   the ability of the board of directors to issue up to 2.0 million shares of “blank check” preferred stock with terms designed to prevent or delay a takeover attempt, as described further below;     •   the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;     •   the requirement for advance notice for nominations of directors for election to the board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting;     •   the ability of the board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval;     •   the requirement that any stockholder derivative actions and certain other intra-corporate disputes be litigated solely and exclusively in delaware state court:     •   the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors: and     •   the prohibition of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders. our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 2.0 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. the issuance of preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control, as the terms of the preferred stock that might be issued could potentially prohibit our consummation of any merger, reorganization, sale of substantially all of our assets, liquidation or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of the holders of the outstanding shares of preferred stock. the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions may prohibit, restrict or significantly delay large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. although we believe these provisions in our charter and bylaws and under delaware law collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. in any event, these provisions may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. any such delay or prevention could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.   37 table of contents if we issue additional shares of stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. we have a significant number of authorized and unissued shares of our common stock available. these shares will provide us with the flexibility to issue our common stock for proper corporate purposes, which may include making acquisitions (including without limitation, our proposed acquisition of veloce) through the use of stock, adopting additional equity incentive plans and raising equity capital. any issuance of our common stock may result in immediate dilution of our stockholders.   item 1b. unresolved