item 1a. risk factors the factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this annual report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. our business depends on a limited number of large and sophisticated customers, and a substantial reduction in sales to one or more of these customers could significantly impact our operating results. a relatively limited number of customers account for a large percentage of our total net sales. our top ten customers accounted for 51% of our sales for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2013. sales to staples, our largest customer, during the same period amounted to approximately 13% of our 2013 sales. giving effect to the recently completed merger between office depot and officemax, as if the merger and the sale of its joint venture, office depot de mexico, had both occurred on january 1, 2013, our sales to the combined companies and their subsidiaries would have represented approximately 13% of our 2013 sales. no other customers accounted for more than 10% of our sales for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2013. our large customers have the ability to obtain favorable terms, to directly source their own private label products and to create and support new and competing suppliers. the loss of, or a significant reduction in, business from one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our customers may further consolidate, which could adversely impact our sales and margins. our customers have steadily consolidated over the last two decades. in the fourth quarter of 2013, two of our large customers, office depot and officemax, completed their previously announced merger. management currently expects the combined companies will take actions to harmonize pricing from their suppliers, close retail outlets and rationalize their supply chain which will negatively impact our sales and margins and adversely affect our business and results of operations. these adverse affects are expected to take several years to be fully realized. there can be no assurance that following consolidation these and other large customers will continue to buy from us across different product segments or geographic regions, or at the same levels as prior to consolidation, which could negatively impact our financial results. further, if the industry consolidation trend continues, it is likely to result in further pressures that could reduce our margins and sales and have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. challenges related to the highly competitive business segments in which we operate could have a negative effect on our ongoing operations, revenues, results, cash flows or financial position. we operate in highly competitive business segments that face a number of challenges, including competitors with strong brands or brand recognition, significant private label producers, imports from a range of countries, low entry barriers, sophisticated and large buyers of office products, and potential substitution from a range of products and services including electronic, digital or web-based products that can replicate or render obsolete or less desirable some of the products we sell. in particular, our business is likely to be affected by: (1) the decisions and actions of our major customers, including their decisions on whether to increase their purchases of private label products or otherwise change product assortments; (2) decisions of current and potential suppliers of competing products on whether to take advantage of low entry barriers to expand their production or lower prices; and (3) the decisions of end-users of our products to expand their use of lower priced, substitute or alternative products and, in particular, to shift their use of time management and planning products toward electronic and other substitutes. in addition, our competitive position depends on continued investment in innovation and product development, manufacturing and sourcing, quality standards, marketing and customer service and support. our success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers and end-users in a market where many of our product categories are affected by continuing improvements in technology and shortened product lifecycles and others are experiencing secular declines. we may not have sufficient resources to make the investments that may be necessary to anticipate or react to the changing needs, and we may not identify, develop and market products successfully or otherwise be successful in maintaining our competitive position. finally, our customers also operate in a very competitive environment. more recently, new outlets, including drug store chains and e-tailers have surfaced as meaningful competitors to certain of the company's large customers and the market share of the office products superstores is contracting. the loss of market share by one or more of our large customers or the shift of market share away from the traditional office product superstores and office product resellers towards mass merchandisers, online merchants and other competitors (with whom we may do a smaller volume of business) could adversely affect our sales and margins and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 6 the market for products sold by our computer products group is rapidly changing and highly competitive. our computer products group faces additional competitive challenges due to the nature of its business which is characterized by rapid change, including changes in technology, short product life cycles and a dependency on the introduction by third party manufacturers of new equipment which drives demand for accessories sold by the company. in order to compete successfully, we need to anticipate and bring to market innovative new accessories in a timely and effective way which requires significant skills and investment. we may not have sufficient market intelligence, talent or resources to successfully meet these challenges. additionally, the short product life cycle increases the risk of product obsolescence. rapid changes in technology, the market or demand for pcs and mobile devices as well as a delay in the introduction of new technology and our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes and delays could materially and adversely affect the demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of our computer products group segment. sales of our products may be adversely affected by issues that affect business, commercial and consumer spending decisions during periods of economic uncertainty or weakness. sales of our products can be very sensitive to uncertain economic conditions, particularly in categories where we compete against private label, other branded and/or generic products that compete on price, quality, service or other grounds. in periods of economic uncertainty or weakness, the demand for our products may decrease, as businesses and consumers may seek or be forced to purchase more lower cost, private label or other economy brands, may more readily switch to electronic, digital or web-based products serving similar functions, or may forgo certain purchases altogether. as a result, adverse changes in economic conditions or sustained periods of economic uncertainty or weakness particularly in the u.s. and in other geographies where we operate could negatively affect our earnings and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. if we fail to realize the sales synergies and other revenue growth opportunities we anticipated in connection with the acquisition of mead c&op, we may not achieve the financial results that we expected as a result of the merger. among the factors considered in connection with our acquisition of mead c&op were the opportunities for sales synergies and other revenue growth. we cannot predict with certainty if or when these sales synergies and growth opportunities may occur, or the extent to which they actually will be achieved. realization of any synergies could be adversely affected by number of factors beyond our control, including, without limitation, deteriorating or anemic economic conditions, increased operating costs, increased competition and regulatory developments. if we fail to realize the sales synergies and other revenue growth opportunities we anticipated, we may not achieve the financial results that we expected as a result of the merger. we have identified a material weakness in our information technology general controls over financial reporting that, if not properly remediated, could materially adversely affect our operations and result in material misstatements of our financial statements. as described in "item 9a. controls and procedures" of this report, we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective as of december 31, 2013 because a material weakness existed in the information technology general controls related to the enterprise resource planning application for our recently acquired u.s. and canadian mead c&op businesses. the integration and transition associated with the acquisition of mead c&op, including those related to changes to, or implementation of critical information technology systems, required modifications to our internal control systems, processes and information technology systems. failure to successfully complete the integration and transition could adversely affect our internal control over financial reporting, our disclosure controls and procedures and our ability to effectively and timely report our financial results. if we are unable to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner or are unable to remedy our existing material weakness, avoid future material weaknesses, and conclude that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are effective, our business, results of operation and financial condition, investor, supplier and customer confidence in our reported financial information, the market perception of our company and/or the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. 7 we rely extensively on information technology systems to operate, transact and otherwise manage our business. any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology or its infrastructure could materially adversely affect our business, results of operation or financial condition. we rely extensively on our information technology systems, most of which are managed by third-party service providers, across our operations. our ability to effectively manage our business and execute the production, distribution and sale of our products as well as our ability to manage and report our financial results and run other support functions depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems and our third-party service providers. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in the security of these systems could disrupt service to our customers, negatively impact our ability to report our financial results in a timely and accurate manner and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our information technology general controls are an important aspect of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. failure to successfully execute our it general controls could adversely affect our internal control over financial reporting, our disclosure controls and procedures and our ability to effectively and timely report our financial results. if we are unable to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner or to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are effective, our business, results of operation and financial condition, investor, supplier and customer confidence in our reported financial information, the market perception of our company and/or the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. our growth strategy includes increased concentration in our emerging market geographies, which could create greater exposure to unstable political conditions, civil unrest or economic volatility. an increasing percentage of the company's sales are derived from emerging markets such as latin america and asia. moreover, the profitable growth of our business in emerging markets is key to our long term growth strategy. if we are unable to successfully expand our businesses in emerging markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect as a result of our investments, our financial performance could be adversely affected. factors that could adversely affect our business results in these developing and emerging markets include: regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, which, from time to time, result in significant cash balances in foreign countries and limitations on the repatriation of funds; currency hyperinflation or devaluation; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems; and increased costs of business due to compliance with complex foreign and united states laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. in addition, disruption in these markets due to adverse economic conditions, political instability or civil unrest could result in a decline in consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products or otherwise having a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation. in connection with our may 1, 2012 acquisition of mead c&op we assumed all of the tax liabilities for the acquired foreign operations. in december of 2012, the federal revenue department of the ministry of finance of brazil ("frd") issued a tax assessment against our newly acquired indirect subsidiary, tilibra produtos de papelaria ltda. ("tilibra"), which challenged the tax deduction of goodwill from tilibra's taxable income for the year 2007. a second assessment challenging the deduction of goodwill from tilibra's taxable income for the years 2008, 2009 and 2010 was issued by frd in october 2013. the assessments seek payment of approximately r95.2 million ($40.4 million based on current exchange rates) of tax, penalties and interest. tilibra is disputing both of the tax assessments through established administrative procedures. we believe we have meritorious defenses and intend to vigorously contest these matters; however, there can be no assurances that we will ultimately prevail. we are in the early stages of the process to challenge the frd's tax assessments, and the ultimate outcome will not be determined until the brazilian tax appeal process is complete, which is expected to take a number of years. in addition, tilibra's 2011-2012 tax years remain open and subject to audit, and there can be no assurances that we will not receive additional tax assessments regarding the goodwill deducted for the tilibra acquisition for one or more of those years. if the frd's initial position is ultimately sustained, the amount assessed would adversely affect our cash flow in the year of settlement. because there is no settled legal precedent on which to base a definitive opinion as to whether we will ultimately prevail, the company considers the outcome of this dispute to be uncertain. since it is not more likely than not that we will prevail, in the fourth quarter of 2012, we recorded a reserve in the amount of $44.5 million in consideration of this contingency, of which $43.3 million was recorded as an adjustment to the purchase price and included the 2008-2012 tax years plus interest and penalties through december 2012. in addition, the company will continue to accrue interest related to this contingency until such time as 8 the outcome is known or until evidence is presented that we are more likely than not to prevail. during 2013 and 2012, the company accrued additional interest as a charge to current tax expense of $1.8 million and $1.2 million, respectively. there are various other claims, lawsuits and pending actions against us incidental to our operations. it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, we can make no assurances that we will ultimately be successful in our defense of any of these matters. risks associated with outsourcing the production of certain of our products could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we outsource certain manufacturing functions to suppliers in china and other asia-pacific countries. outsourcing generates a number of risks, including decreased control over the manufacturing process potentially leading to production delays or interruptions, inferior product quality control and misappropriation of trade secrets. in addition, performance issues with these suppliers could result in cost overruns, delayed deliveries, shortages, quality and compliance issues or other problems. moreover, if one or more of our suppliers becomes insolvent, is unable or unwilling to continue to provide products of acceptable quality, at acceptable cost or in a timely manner, or if customer demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current suppliers, or others, on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. any of these events could negatively affect our ability to deliver our products and services to our customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. all of our suppliers must comply with our design and product content specifications, applicable laws, including product safety, security, labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our and our customers' supplier codes of conduct. in addition, as we expect our suppliers to comply with, be responsive to our audits, and conform to our and our customers' expectations with respect to product safety, product quality and social responsibility, any failure to do so may result in our having to cease contracting with such supplier or cease production at a particular facility. any need to identify and qualify substitute suppliers or facilities due to compliance issues could result in unforeseen operational problems, production delays and additional costs. substitute suppliers might not be available or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to offer products on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. if our suppliers are unable to meet our and our customers' compliance and other requirements and otherwise comply with applicable laws our ability to deliver products and services to our customers could be severely impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. some of our suppliers are dependent upon other industries for raw materials and other products and services necessary to produce and provide the products they supply to us. any adverse impacts to those industries could have a ripple effect on these suppliers, which could adversely impact their ability to supply us at levels we consider necessary or appropriate for our business, or at all. any such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. decline in the use of paper-based dated time management and productivity tools could adversely affect our business. a number of our products and brands consist of paper-based time management and productivity tools that historically have tended to be higher-margin products. however, consumer preference for technology-based solutions for time management and planning continues to grow worldwide. many consumers use or have access to electronic tools that may serve as substitutes for traditional paper-based time management and productivity tools. accordingly, the continued introduction of new digital software applications and web-based services by companies offering time management and productivity solutions could adversely impact the revenue and profitability of our largely paper-based portfolio of time management products. material disruptions at one of our or at one of our suppliers' major manufacturing or distribution facilities could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. a material operational disruption in one of our or at one of our supplier's major facilities could negatively impact production and customer deliveries. such a disruption could occur as a result of any number of events including but not limited to a major equipment failure, labor stoppages, transportation failures affecting the supply and shipment of materials and finished goods, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, civil unrest, war or terrorism and disruptions in utility services, and bankruptcy. any such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operation or financial condition. 9 we have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2013, we had $920.9 million of outstanding debt. this indebtedness could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operating activities to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, potential strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. in addition, approximately $420 million of our outstanding debt is subject to floating interest rates, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates. our significant indebtedness also may increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in certain activities that may be in our long-term best interests. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain financial and other covenants that limit our ability to engage in certain activities and restrict our operational flexibility. among other things, these covenants restrict or limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur certain liens on our assets, issue preferred stock or certain disqualified stock, pay cash dividends, make restricted payments, including investments, sell our assets or merge with other companies, and enter into certain transactions with affiliates. we are also required to maintain specified financial ratios under certain conditions and satisfy financial condition tests. these covenants, ratios and tests may limit or prohibit us from engaging in certain activities and transactions that may be in our long-term best interests, and could place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with our debt covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. our ability to comply with the covenants and financial ratios and tests under the agreements governing our indebtedness may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to continue to meet those covenants, ratios and tests. our ability to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors. our breach of any of these covenants, ratios or tests, or any inability to pay interest on, or principal of, our outstanding debt as it becomes due, could result in an event of default, in which case our lenders could declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. if our lenders accelerate our indebtedness, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness and any other indebtedness that would become due as a result of such acceleration and, if we were unable to obtain replacement financing or any such replacement financing was on terms that were less favorable than the indebtedness being replaced, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. see “part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources." our business is subject to risks associated with seasonality, which could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition. historically, our business experiences higher volume in the third and fourth quarters of the calendar year. two principal factors have contributed to this seasonality: the office products industry's customers and our product line. we are major suppliers of products related to the “back-to-school” season, which occurs principally from june through september for our north american business and from november through january for our australian and brazilian businesses. our product line also includes a number of products that lend themselves to calendar year-end purchase timing and our computer products segment has higher sales in the fourth quarter driven by traditionally strong fourth quarter sales of personal computers, tablets and smartphones. as a result, we historically have generated, and expect to continue to generate, most of our earnings in the second half of the year and much of our cash flow in the first, third and fourth quarters as receivables are collected. if these typical seasonal increases in sales of certain portions of our product line do not materialize, it may have an outsized impact on our business, which could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. risks associated with currency volatility could harm our sales, profitability, cash flows and results of operations. with approximately 46% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2013 arising from foreign sales, fluctuations in currency exchange rates can have a material impact on our results of operations. our risk exposure is primarily related to the british pound, the euro, the australian dollar, the canadian dollar, the brazilian real, the mexican peso and japanese yen. currency fluctuations impact the results of our non-u.s. operations that are reported in u.s. dollars. as a result, a weak u.s. dollar benefits 10 us in the form of higher reported sales and a strong u.s. dollar reduces the dollar-denominated sales contributions from foreign operations. additionally approximately half of the products we sell are sourced from china and other asia-pacific countries and are paid for in u.s. dollars based on prevailing currency exchange rates. thus, movements in the value of local currencies relative to the u.s. dollar in countries where we source our products affect our cost of goods sold, with a stronger dollar decreasing costs of goods sold and a weaker dollar increasing costs of goods sold. we cannot predict the rate at which the u.s. dollar will trade against other currencies in the future. if the u.s. dollar were to substantially strengthen, making the dollar significantly more valuable relative to other currencies in the global market, such an increase could harm our ability to compete or competitively price in those markets, and therefore, materially and adversely affect our sales, profitability, cash flows and results of operations. the raw materials and labor costs we incur are subject to price increases that could adversely affect our profitability. the primary materials used in the manufacturing of many of our products are resin, plastics, polyester and polypropylene substrates, paper, steel, wood, aluminum, melamine, zinc and cork. in general, our gross profit may be affected from time to time by fluctuations in the prices of these materials because our customers require advance notice and negotiation to pass through raw material price increases. this gives rise to a delay before cost increases can be passed to our customers. we attempt to reduce our exposure to increases in these costs through a variety of measures, including periodic purchases, future delivery contracts and longer-term price contracts together with holding our own inventory; however, these measures may not always be effective. inflationary and other substantial increases in costs of materials and labor have occurred in the past and may recur, and raw materials may not continue to be available in adequate supply in the future. shortages in the supply of any of the raw materials we use in our products and other factors, such as inflation, could result in price increases that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our pension costs could substantially increase as a result of volatility in the equity markets or interest rates. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets impact the funded status of these plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of these plans. the company's cash contributions to pension and defined benefit plans totaled $14.7 million in 2013; however the exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, including the investment returns on pension plan assets. a significant increase in our pension funding requirements could have a negative impact on our cash flow, results from operations and financial condition. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we have recorded significant amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets, which increased substantially as a result of our acquisition of mead c&op. due to the recent acquisition of mead c&op, the fair values of certain indefinite-lived trade names are not substantially above their carrying values. in 2008, we recorded significant goodwill and other asset impairment charges that adversely affected our financial results. future events may occur that may also adversely affect the reported value of our assets and require impairment charges, which could further adversely affect our financial results. such events may include, but are not limited to, a sustained decline in our stock price or in sales of one or more of our branded product lines, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base or a material adverse change in our relationship with significant customers. our suppliers could change our payment terms. we purchase products for resale under credit arrangements with our suppliers. in weak global markets, suppliers may seek credit insurance to protect against non-payment of amounts due to them. during any period of declining operating performance, or should we experience severe liquidity challenges, suppliers may demand that we accelerate our payment for their products. also, credit insurers may curtail or eliminate coverage to the suppliers. if suppliers begin to demand accelerated payment of amounts due to them or if they begin to require advance payments or letters of credit before goods are shipped to us, these demands could have a significant adverse impact on our operating cash flows and result in a severe drain on our liquidity. 11 a bankruptcy of one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. our concentrated customer base increases our customer credit risk. were any of our major customers to make a bankruptcy filing, we could be adversely impacted due to not only a reduction in future sales but also losses associated with the potential inability to collect any outstanding accounts receivable from such customer. such a result could negatively impact our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to global environmental regulation and environmental risks as well as product content and product safety laws and regulations. we and our operations, both in the u.s. and abroad, are subject to national, state, provincial and/or local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations and prohibitions on the discharge and emission of, and establish standards for the use, disposal and management of, certain materials and waste. we are also subject to laws regulating the content of toxic chemicals and materials in the products we sell as well as laws, directives and self-regulatory requirements related to the safety of our products. environmental and product content and product safety laws and regulations can be complex and may change often. capital and operating expenses required to comply with environmental and product content laws and regulations can be significant, and violations may result in substantial fines, penalties and civil damages. the costs of complying with environmental and product content and product safety laws and regulations and any claims concerning noncompliance, or liability with respect to contamination in the future could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. any inability to secure, protect and maintain rights to intellectual property could have material adverse impact on our business. we own and license many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to our business. the loss of any individual patent or license may not be material to us taken as a whole, but the loss of a number of patents or licenses that represent principal portions of our business could have a material adverse effect on our business. we could also incur substantial costs to pursue legal actions relating to the unauthorized use by third parties of our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. if our brands become diluted, if our patents are infringed or if our competitors introduce brands and products that cause confusion with our brands in the marketplace, the value that our consumers associate with our brands may become diminished, which could negatively impact our sales. if third parties challenge the validity or enforceability of our intellectual property rights and we cannot successfully defend these challenges, or our intellectual property is invalidated, we could lose our ability to use the technology, brand names or other intellectual property that were the subject of those challenges, which, if such intellectual property is material to the operation of our business or our financial results, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results from operations and financial condition. we may also become involved in defending intellectual property claims being asserted against us that could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the efforts of our management, and require us to pay substantial damages or require us to obtain a license, which might not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our end-user brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments and penalties which could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or the value of our end-user brands. we also could be required to recall and possibly discontinue the sale of possible defective or unsafe products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured deductible or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. 12 we are unable to take certain significant actions following the merger because such actions could adversely affect the tax-free status of the distribution or the merger. in certain circumstances, we may be obligated to indemnify meadwestvaco corporation (“mwv”) for any payment of united states federal income taxes by mwv that result from our taking or failing to take certain actions in connection with the distribution and the merger. in connection with (i) the transfer by mwv of mead c&op (the “separation”) to a subsidiary we acquired pursuant to the merger (“monaco spinco”); (ii) the distribution by mwv of monaco spinco shares to mwv stockholders (the “distribution”); and (iii) the merger (the separation, the distribution, the merger and certain related financing transactions being collectively referred to as the “transactions”), mwv received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (the “irs”) as to the tax-free nature of the transactions, mwv and monaco spinco received an opinion from mwv's counsel as to the tax-free nature of the distribution, and we, mwv and monaco spinco received certain legal opinions from our respective counsel as to the tax-free nature of the merger. the opinions of counsel were based on, among other things, the irs ruling as to the matters addressed by the ruling, current law and certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by us, mwv and our respective subsidiaries. in connection with the transactions, we entered into a tax matters agreement with mwv (the “tax matters agreement”). the tax matters agreement prohibits us from taking certain actions prior to may 1, 2014 that could cause the distribution or the merger to be taxable. these prohibited actions include certain mergers, asset sales and transactions involving our capital stock. if we wish to take any such restricted action, we are required to cooperate with mwv in obtaining a supplemental irs ruling or an unqualified tax opinion. under the tax matters agreement, in certain circumstances and subject to certain limitations, we are required to indemnify mwv against any taxes on the distribution that arise if we or our subsidiaries take certain actions or fail to take certain actions, or as a result of certain changes in the ownership of our stock following the merger, that adversely affect the tax-free status of the distribution or the merger. moreover, if we do not carefully monitor our compliance with the tax matters agreement and relevant irs rules, we might inadvertently trigger our obligation to indemnify mwv. if we are required to indemnify mwv in the event the distribution is taxable, this indemnification obligation would be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management personnel. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel necessary for the development, manufacture and sale of our products, and key employees may not remain with us in the future. if we fail to retain our key employees, we may experience substantial disruption in our businesses. the loss of key management personnel or other key employees or our potential inability to attract such personnel may adversely affect our ability to manage our overall operations, successfully implement our business strategy, and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. additionally, we rely to a significant degree on compensating our officers and key employees with incentive awards that pay out only if specified performance goals have been met. to the extent these performance goals are not met and the incentive awards do not pay out, or pay out less than the targeted amount, as has occurred in recent years, it may motivate certain officers and key employees to seek other opportunities. item 1b. unresolved