item 1a. risk factors the factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. risks related to our business sales of our products may be adversely affected by issues that affect business, commercial and consumer spending decisions during periods of economic uncertainty or weakness. sales of our products can be very sensitive to uncertain u.s. and global economic conditions, particularly in categories where we compete against private label, other branded and/or generic products that are competitive on price, quality, service or other grounds. in periods of economic uncertainty or weakness, the demand for our products may be adversely affected, as businesses and consumers may seek or be forced to purchase more lower cost, private label or other economy brands, may more readily switch to electronic, digital or web-based products serving similar functions, or may forego certain purchases altogether. as a result, adverse changes in the u.s. or global economy or sustained periods of economic uncertainty or weakness could negatively affect our earnings and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. challenges related to the highly competitive business segments in which we operate could have a negative effect on our ongoing operations, revenues, results, cash flows or financial position. we operate in highly competitive business segments that face a number of challenges, including competitors with strong brands or brand recognition, significant private label producers, imports from a range of countries, low entry barriers, sophisticated and large buyers of office products, and potential substitution from a range of products and services including electronic, digital or web-based products that can replicate or render obsolete or less desirable some of the products we sell. in particular, our business is likely to be affected by: (1) the decisions and actions of our major customers, including their decisions on whether to increase their purchases of private label products; (2) decisions of current and potential suppliers of competing products on whether to take advantage of low entry barriers to expand their production; and (3) the decisions of end-users of our products to expand their use of substitute products and, in particular, to shift their use of time management and planning products toward electronic and other substitutes. in addition, our competitive position depends on continued investment in innovation and product development, manufacturing and sourcing, quality standards, marketing and customer service and support. our success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in a market where many of our product categories are affected by continuing improvements in technology and shortened product lifecycles. we may not have sufficient resources to make the investments that may be necessary to anticipate those changing needs and may not anticipate, identify, develop and market products successfully or otherwise be successful in maintaining their competitive position. our business depends on a limited number of large and sophisticated customers, and a substantial reduction in sales to these customers could significantly impact our operating results. the office products industry is characterized by a small number of major customers, principally office products superstores (which combine contract stationers, retail and mail order), office products resellers and mass merchandisers. a relatively limited number of customers account for a large percentage of our total net sales. our top ten customers accounted for 51% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2011. sales to staples, inc. and office depot, inc. and subsidiaries during the same period amounted to approximately 13% and 11%, respectively, of our 2011 net sales. our large customers have the ability to obtain favorable terms, to directly source their own private label products and to create and support new and competing suppliers. the loss of, or a significant reduction in, business from one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   7 table of contents our substantial indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt, prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2011, we had $669.0 million of outstanding debt. this indebtedness could have negative consequences to us, such as:     •   requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, potential strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;     •   limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, working capital or capital expenditures, or to fulfill debt service requirements or other cash requirements;     •   increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market conditions;     •   limiting our operational flexibility due to the covenants contained in our debt agreements;     •   placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt;     •   to the extent that our debt is subject to floating interest rates, increasing our vulnerability to fluctuations in market interest rates; and     •   limiting our ability to buy back our stock or pay cash dividends the agreements governing our indebtedness contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. our ability to meet our expense and debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in customer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. should our sales decline, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay our debt service obligations when due. if we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or should we fail to comply with our financial and other restrictive covenants, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt (in all likelihood on terms less favorable than our current terms), sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices or borrow more money. we may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us or at all. the inability to refinance our debt could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results from operations. our failure to comply with certain restrictive debt covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. certain covenants we have made in connection with our existing borrowings restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, incur certain liens on our assets, issue preferred stock or certain disqualified stock, pay dividends on capital stock, make other restricted payments, including investments, sell our assets, and enter into consolidations or mergers or other transactions with affiliates. our asset-based revolving credit facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios under certain conditions and satisfy financial condition tests. our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests and otherwise comply with our financial covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to continue to meet those ratios, tests and covenants. our ability to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. a breach of any of these covenants, ratios, tests or restrictions, as applicable, or any inability to pay interest on, or principal of, our outstanding debt as it becomes due could result in an event of default under any of the agreements governing any   8 table of contents of our debt obligations, in which case our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. if the lenders accelerate the payment of any of our indebtedness, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness and any other indebtedness that would become due as a result of such acceleration and, if we were unable to obtain replacement financing or any such replacement financing was on terms that were less favorable than the indebtedness being replaced, our liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. see “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—liquidity and capital resources.” we require a significant amount of cash to service our debt. our ability to meet our cash requirements and service our debt could be impacted by many factors that are outside our control, including global economic conditions and access to credit markets. our future operating performance is dependent on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. worsening global economic conditions would adversely impact commercial spending and our sales would likely decline or become increasingly concentrated in lower margin products, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. the impact of any negative global economic conditions and the ability of our suppliers and customers to access credit markets is also unpredictable, and may create additional risks for us, both directly and indirectly. the inability of suppliers to access financing or the insolvency of one or more of our suppliers could lead to disruptions in our supply chain, which could adversely impact our sales and/or increase our costs. our suppliers may require us to pay cash in advance or obtain letters of credit for their benefit as a condition to selling us their products and services. if one or more of our principal customers were to file for bankruptcy, our sales could be adversely impacted and our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable from any such customer could be limited. any of these risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. our operating performance and ability to comply with covenants under our borrowing arrangements are dependent on our continued ability to access funds under our credit and loan agreements, including under our asset-based revolving credit facility, and from cash on hand, maintain sales volumes, drive profitable growth, realize cost savings and generate cash from operations. the financial institutions that fund our asset-based revolving credit facility are also impacted by any volatility in the credit markets, and if one or more of them cannot fulfill our revolving credit requests, our operations may be adversely impacted. during the third quarter of 2009, the company completed a series of transactions to refinance its indebtedness. these transactions resulted in both an increased amount of indebtedness as well as an increase to the weighted average interest rate on our indebtedness. as such, these transactions have increased the cost of servicing our debt, which has negatively impacted our results of operations and cash flows. despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. this could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future because the terms of our existing indebtedness do not prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so, within certain limits. based on our borrowing base, as of december 31, 2011 our revolving credit facility permitted borrowing of up to an additional $165.5 million. if new indebtedness is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. failure to maintain our credit ratings could limit our access to the capital markets, adversely affect the cost and terms upon which we are able to obtain additional financing and negatively impact our business. although we believe existing cash, funds generated by operations and amounts available under our asset-based revolving credit facility will collectively provide adequate resources to fund our ongoing operating   9 table of contents requirements, we may be required to seek additional financing to compete effectively in our market. in light of the current difficulties in the financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings. we have experienced downgrades in the past and may experience further downgrades. failure to maintain these credit ratings could, among other things, limit our access to the capital markets and adversely affect the cost and terms upon which we are able to obtain additional financing, including any financing from our suppliers, which could negatively impact our business. a bankruptcy of one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our concentrated customer base increases our customer credit risk. were any of our major customers to make a bankruptcy filing, we could be adversely impacted due to not only a reduction in future sales but also losses associated with the potential inability to collect any outstanding accounts receivable from such customer. such a result could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. our pension costs could substantially increase as a result of volatility in the equity markets or interest rates. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets impact the funded status of these plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of these plans. the exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, including the investment returns on pension plan assets, and a significant increase in our pension funding requirements could have a negative impact on our cash flow and financial condition. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in prior years we have recorded significant amounts of goodwill and other asset impairment charges adversely affecting financial results. future events may occur that may also adversely affect the reported value of our assets and require impairment charges, which could further adversely affect our financial results. such events may include, but are not limited to, a sustained decline in our stock price, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base or a material adverse change in our relationship with significant customers. our customers may further consolidate, which could adversely impact our margins and sales. customers within our customer base have steadily consolidated over the last two decades. if that trend continues, it is likely to result in further pricing pressures on us that could result in reduced margin and sales. further, there can be no assurance that following consolidation large customers will continue to buy from us across different product segments or geographic regions, which could negatively impact our financial results. our business is subject to risks associated with seasonality, which could adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition or results of operations. our business, as it concerns both historical sales and profit, has experienced higher sales volume in the third and fourth quarters of the calendar year. two principal factors have contributed to this seasonality: the office products industry’s customers and our product line. we are major suppliers of products related to the “back-to-school” season, which occurs principally during june, july, august and september for our north american business and november, december and january for our australian business; and our product line includes several products that lend themselves to calendar year-end purchase timing. if either of these typical seasonal increases in sales of certain portions of our product line does not materialize, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   10 table of contents the raw materials and labor costs we incur are subject to price increases that could adversely affect our profitability. the primary materials used in the manufacturing of many of our products are resin, plastics, polyester and polypropylene substrates, paper, steel, wood, aluminum, melamine, zinc and cork. in general, our gross profit may be affected from time to time by fluctuations in the prices of these materials because our customers require advance notice and negotiation to pass through raw material price increases, giving rise to a delay before cost increases can be passed to our customers. we attempt to reduce our exposure to increases in these costs through a variety of measures, including periodic purchases, future delivery contracts and longer-term price contracts together with holding our own inventory; however, these measures may not always be effective. inflationary and other increases in costs of materials and labor have occurred in the past and may recur, and raw materials may not continue to be available in adequate supply in the future. shortages in the supply of any of the raw materials we use in our products and other factors, such as inflation, could result in price increases that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to supplier credit and order fulfillment risk. we purchase products for resale under credit arrangements with our vendors. in weak global markets, vendors may seek credit insurance to protect against non-payment of amounts due to them. during any period of declining operating performance, or should we experience severe liquidity challenges, vendors may demand that we accelerate our payment for their products. also, credit insurers may curtail or eliminate coverage to the vendors. if vendors begin to demand accelerated payment of amounts due to them or if they begin to require advance payments or letters of credit before goods are shipped to us, these demands could have a significant adverse impact on our operating cash flow and result in a severe drain on our liquidity. in addition, if our vendors are unable to access liquidity or become insolvent, they could be unable to supply us with product. also, some of our vendors are dependent upon other industries for raw materials and other products and services necessary to produce and provide the products they supply to us. any adverse impacts to those industries could have a ripple effect on these vendors, which could adversely impact their ability to supply us at levels we consider necessary or appropriate for our business, or at all. any such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flow. risks associated with currency volatility could harm our sales, profitability and cash flows. approximately 53% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2011 were from foreign sales. while the recent relative volatility of the u.s. dollar to other currencies has impacted our businesses’ sales, profitability and cash flows as the results of non-u.s. operations have increased when reported in u.s. dollars, we cannot predict the rate at which the u.s. dollar will trade against other currencies in the future. if the u.s. dollar were to substantially strengthen, making the dollar significantly more valuable relative to other currencies in the global market, such an increase could harm our ability to compete, and therefore, materially and adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. more specifically, a significant portion of the products we sell are sourced from china and other asia-pacific countries and are paid for in u.s. dollars. thus, movements of their local currency to the u.s. dollar have the same impacts as raw material price changes in addition to the currency translation impact noted above. risks associated with outsourcing the production of certain of our products could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. historically, we have outsourced certain manufacturing functions to third-party service providers in china and other asia-pacific countries. outsourcing generates a number of risks, including decreased control over the manufacturing process potentially leading to production delays or interruptions, inferior product quality control and misappropriation of trade secrets. in addition, performance problems by these third-party service providers   11 table of contents could result in cost overruns, delayed deliveries, shortages, quality issues or other problems, which could result in significant customer dissatisfaction and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if one or more of these third-party service providers becomes insolvent or unable or unwilling to continue to provide services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs, in a timely manner or any combination thereof, our ability to deliver our products to our customers could be severely impaired. furthermore, the need to identify and qualify substitute service providers or increase our internal capacity could result in unforeseen operational problems and additional costs. substitute service providers might not be available or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to offer services on acceptable terms. moreover, if customer demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current service providers, or others, on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. any inability to secure, protect and maintain rights to intellectual property could have material adverse impact on our business. we own and license many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to our business. the loss of any individual patent or license may not be material to us taken as a whole, but the loss of a number of patents or licenses that represent principal portions of our business, or expenses related to defending or maintaining the patents or licenses, could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may become involved in intellectual property claims being asserted against us that could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the efforts of our management, and require us to pay substantial damages or require us to obtain a license, which might not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. we could also incur substantial costs to pursue legal actions relating to the unauthorized use by third parties of our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. if our brands become diluted, if our patents are infringed or if our competitors introduce brands and products that cause confusion with our brands in the marketplace, the value that our consumers associate with our brands may become diminished, which could negatively impact our sales. if third parties assert claims against our intellectual property rights and we are not able to successfully resolve those claims, or our intellectual property becomes invalidated, we could lose our ability to use the technology, brand names or other intellectual property that were the subject of those claims, which, if such intellectual property is material to the operation of our business or our financial results, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management personnel. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel necessary for the development, manufacture and sale of our products, and key employees may not remain with us in the future. if we fail to retain our key employees, we may experience substantial disruption in our businesses. the loss of key management personnel or other key employees or our potential inability to attract such personnel may adversely affect our ability to manage our overall operations and successfully implement our business strategy. we are subject to global environmental regulation and environmental risks. we and our operations, both in the u.s. and abroad, are subject to national, state, provincial and/or local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations and prohibitions on the discharge and emission of, and establish standards for the use, disposal and management of, certain materials and waste. we are also subject to laws regulating the content of toxic chemicals and materials in the products we sell. environmental and product content laws and regulations can be complex and may change often. capital and operating expenses required to comply with environmental and product content laws and regulations can be significant, and violations may result in substantial fines, penalties and civil damages. the costs of complying with   12 table of contents environmental and product content laws and regulations and any claims concerning noncompliance, or liability with respect to contamination in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our end-user brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or the value of our end-user brands. we also could be required to recall and possibly discontinue the sale of possible defective or unsafe products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured deductible or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. we may not consummate our acquisition of the mead c&op business or realize the anticipated benefits if we do complete the acquisition. our proposed acquisition of the mead c&op business may not be consummated in a timely manner or at all. if we are unable to complete the proposed acquisition, we will have incurred substantial expenses and diverted significant management time and resources from our ongoing business. even if we consummate the proposed acquisition, we will still have incurred substantial expenses but may not realize the anticipated cost synergies and other benefits of the acquisition. given the size and significance of the acquisition, we may encounter difficulties in the integration of the operations of the mead c&op business, which could adversely affect our combined business and financial performance. if the proposed transaction is not completed the price of the our common stock may decline to the extent that the market price of the company’s common stock reflects positive market assumptions that the proposed acquisition will be completed and the related anticipated benefits will be realized. we also may be subject to additional risks if the proposed transaction is not completed, including, depending on the reasons for termination of the merger agreement, the requirement that we pay meadwestvaco corporation a termination fee of $15.0 million or reimburse meadwestvaco corporation for their expenses in connection with the transactions in an amount up to $5.0 million.   item 1b. unresolved