item 1a. risk factors   because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.   risks related to our business and industry.   the ongoing volatility of the solar and semiconductor equipment industry may negatively impact our business and results of operations and our corresponding ability to efficiently budget our expenses. the solar and semiconductor equipment industries are highly cyclical. as such, demand for, and the profitability of, our products can change significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors, including, but not limited to, changes in: • global and regional economic conditions; • changes in capacity utilization and production volume of manufacturers of solar cells, semiconductors, silicon wafers and mems; • the profitability and capital resources of those manufacturers; and • the shift of solar and semiconductor production to asia, where there often is increased price competition. for these and other reasons, our results of operations for past periods may not necessarily be indicative of future operating results.  12 since our business has historically been subject to cyclical industry conditions, we have experienced significant fluctuations in our quarterly new orders and net revenue, both within and across years. demand for solar, semiconductor and silicon wafer manufacturing equipment and related consumable products has also been volatile as a result of sudden changes in solar and semiconductor supply and demand and other factors in both semiconductor devices and wafer fabrication processes. our orders tend to be more volatile than our revenue, as any change in demand is reflected immediately in orders booked, which are net of cancellations, while revenue tends to be recognized over multiple quarters as a result of procurement and production lead times and the deferral of certain revenue under our revenue recognition policies. customer delivery schedules on large system orders can also add to this volatility since we generally recognize revenue for new product sales on the date of customer acceptance or the date the contractual customer acceptance provisions lapse. as a result, the fiscal period in which we are able to recognize new product revenue is typically subject to the length of time that our customers require to evaluate the performance of our equipment after shipment and installation, which could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. the purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on their capacity utilization, which changes when new facilities are put into production, and with the level of demand for solar cells and semiconductors. purchasing decisions are also impacted by changes in the economies of the countries which our customers serve, as well as the state of the worldwide solar and semiconductor industries. the timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the solar and semiconductor equipment industries are difficult to predict. the cyclical nature of our marketplace affects our ability to accurately budget our expense levels, which are based in part on our projections of future revenue. when cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results are adversely affected. cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. during a down cycle, we must be able to make timely adjustments to our cost and expense structure to correspond to the prevailing market conditions; effectively manage the supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees. in addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand, which may require additional liquidity. we can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to the industry cycles. our failure to timely and effectively respond to these cyclical changes could have a material adverse effect on our business.   the company is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the solar industry. a significant portion of the company's business is to supply the solar market, which, in addition to the general industry changes described above, is characterized by ongoing changes specific to the solar industry, including: • the varying energy policies of governments around the world and their influence on the rate of growth of the solar photovoltaic (pv) market, including the availability and amount of government incentives for solar power such as tax credits, feed-in tariffs, rebates, renewable portfolio standards that require electricity providers to sell a targeted amount of energy from renewable sources, and goals for solar installations on government facilities; • the need to continually decrease the cost-per-watt of electricity produced by solar pv products to or below competing sources of energy by, among other things, reducing operating costs and increasing throughputs for solar pv manufacturing, and improving the conversion efficiency of solar pv; • the impact on demand for solar pv products arising from the cost of electricity generated by solar pv compared to the cost of electricity from the existing grid or other energy sources; • the growing number of solar pv manufacturers and increasing global production capacity for solar pv, primarily in china as a result of increased solar subsidies and lower manufacturing costs; • trade tensions with china and potential retaliatory actions; • the varying levels of operating and industry experience among solar pv manufacturers and the resulting differences in the nature and extent of customer support services requested from the company; • challenges associated with marketing and selling manufacturing equipment and services to a diverse and diffuse customer base; • the cost of polysilicon and other materials; • access to affordable financing and capital by customers and end-users; and • an increasing number of local equipment and parts suppliers based in asia with certain cost and other advantages over suppliers from outside asia. in addition, current projections for global solar pv production exceed anticipated near-term end-use demand, which is heavily dependent on installed cost-per-watt, government policies and incentives, and the availability of affordable  13 capital. an oversupply of solar pv may lead customers to delay or reduce investments in manufacturing capacity and new technology, and adversely impact the sales and/or profitability of our products. if the company does not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the solar industry, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the solar and semiconductor equipment industries are competitive and because we are relatively small in size and have fewer resources compared to our competitors, we may not be able to compete successfully with them. our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully in these markets. some of our competitors are diversified companies having substantially greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support capabilities than we can provide. we face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer. these competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products. in addition, we face competition from smaller emerging semiconductor equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer often at a lower price than ours and use innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. furthermore, we face competition from chinese equipment manufacturers, including 48th institute and sevenstar electronics, which may receive greater support from chinese customers and governmental agencies because they are locally based. loss of competitive position could impair our prices, customer orders, revenue, gross margin and market share, any of which would negatively affect our financial position and results of operations. our failure to compete successfully with these other companies would seriously harm our business. there is a risk that larger, better-financed competitors will develop and market more advanced products than those that we currently offer, or that competitors with greater financial resources may decrease prices thereby putting us under financial pressure. the occurrence of any of these events could have a negative impact on our revenue. because we depend on revenue from international customers, our business may be adversely affected by changes in the economies and policies of the countries or regions in which we do business.   during fiscal 2012, 87% of our net revenue came from customers outside of north america. during fiscal 2013, 80% of our net revenue came from customers outside of north america as follows: • asia - 64% (including china - 39% and taiwan - 14%) • europe – 16%. each region in the global solar and semiconductor equipment market exhibits unique characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. our business and results of operations could be negatively affected by periodic local or international economic downturns, trade balance issues and political, social and military instability in countries such as china, india, south korea, taiwan and possibly elsewhere. in addition, we face competition from a number of suppliers based in asia that have certain advantages over suppliers from outside of asia. these advantages include lower operating, shipping and regulatory costs, proximity to customers, favorable tariffs and other government policies that favor local suppliers. our business may be adversely affected by significant exchange rate fluctuations and changes in foreign laws. we incurred net foreign currency transaction losses of less than $0.1 million in each of the fiscal years ending september 30, 2013 and 2012. while our business generally has not been materially affected in the past by currency fluctuations, there is a risk that it may be materially adversely affected in the future, especially as we continue to expand operations into other countries. such risk includes possible losses due to currency exchange rate fluctuations, possible future prohibitions against repatriation of earnings, or proceeds from disposition of investments. our wholly-owned subsidiary, tempress systems, has conducted its operations in the netherlands since 1995. in october 2007 we completed our acquisition of r2d, a french company. in february 2011, we completed our acquisition of kingstone. as a result of these acquisitions in europe and asia, the risk associated with foreign currency translation gains and losses has increased. operations of these companies are subject to the taxation policies, employment and labor laws, transportation regulations, import and export regulations and tariffs, possible foreign exchange restrictions and international monetary  14 fluctuations. changes in such laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and costs. we are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. we could be adversely affected by violations of applicable anti-corruption laws or violations of our internal policies designed to ensure ethical business practices. we are exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy. uncertain global economic conditions and slowing growth in china, europe and the united states, along with difficulties in the financial markets, national debt concerns in various regions and government austerity measures, pose challenges to the industries in which we operate. economic uncertainty and related factors, including unemployment, inflation and fuel prices, exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause our customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for equipment or services. this may, in turn, reduce our net sales, reduce backlog, and affect our ability to convert backlog to sales. uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other manufacturers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales and/or additional inventory or bad debt expense for us. these conditions may similarly affect key suppliers, impairing their ability to deliver parts and potentially causing delays or added costs for delivery of our products. in addition, these conditions may lead to strategic alliances by, or consolidation of, other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. uncertainty about future economic and industry conditions also makes it more challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect our businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, and/or modify our business model, which may adversely affect our ability to capitalize on opportunities in a market recovery. if we do not timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the uncertain macroeconomic environment and industry conditions, or to difficulties in the financial markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. natural disasters, terrorist attacks and threats or actual war may negatively impact all aspects of our operations, revenue, costs and stock price. natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, severe weather conditions or other catastrophic events may severely affect our operations or those of our suppliers and customers. such catastrophic events or future disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business. acts of terrorism, as well as events occurring in response or connection to them, including potential future terrorist attacks, rumors or threats of war, actual military conflicts or trade disruptions impacting our domestic or foreign customers or suppliers of parts, components and subassemblies, may negatively impact our operations by causing, among other things, delays or losses in the delivery of supplies or finished goods and decreased sales of our products. more generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the worldwide financial markets and economy. they could also result in economic recession. any of these occurrences could have a significant adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. our reliance on sales to a few major customers and granting credit to those customers places us at financial risk.   we currently sell to a relatively small number of customers, and we expect our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers for the foreseeable future. our operating results, therefore, depend on the ability of these customers to sell products that require our equipment in their manufacture. yingli accounted for 20%, 7% and 15% of our net revenues in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. many of our customer relationships have been developed over a short period of time and certain customers are in their early stages of development. the loss of sales to any of these customers would have a significant negative impact on our business. our agreements with these customers may be canceled if we fail to meet certain product specifications, materially breach the agreement, or in the event of bankruptcy, and our customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. we cannot be certain that these customers will generate significant revenue for us in the future nor that these customer relationships will continue to develop. if our relationships with other customers do not continue to develop, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenue.    15 as of september 30, 2013, two customers individually represented 18% and 13% of accounts receivable. as of september 30, 2012 two customers individually represented 14% and 12% of accounts receivable. yingli accounted for 18% and 14% of our accounts receivable balance as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively. a significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any of our customers that purchase large systems could have a material impact on the collectability of our accounts receivable and our future operating results. a concentration of our receivables from one or a small number of customers places us at risk. we attempt to manage this credit risk by performing credit checks, by requiring significant partial payments prior to shipment where appropriate and by actively monitoring collections. we also require letters of credit of certain customers depending on the size of the order, type of customer or its creditworthiness and its country of domicile. our major customers may seek, and on occasion, may receive pricing, payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that are less favorable to the company. if any one or more of our major customers does not pay us it could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. if any of our customers cancels or fails to accept a large system order, our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our backlog includes orders for large systems, such as our diffusion furnaces, with system prices of up to and in excess of $1.0 million, depending on the system configuration, options and any special requirements of the customer. because our orders are typically subject to cancellation or delay by the customer, our backlog at any particular point in time is not necessarily representative of actual sales for succeeding periods, nor is backlog any assurance that we will realize revenue or profit from completing these orders. our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected should any large systems order be canceled prior to shipment, or not be accepted by the customer. cancellations may result in inventory that we may not be able to sell or reuse if those products have been tailored for a specific customer's requirements and cannot then be sold without significant incremental cost. we have experienced cancellations in the past. our backlog does not provide any assurance that we will realize revenue or profit from those orders or indicate in which period net revenue will be recognized, if ever. if demand declines for horizontal diffusion furnaces and related equipment, or for other solar industry products, our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the revenue of our solar and semiconductor equipment business is comprised primarily of sales of horizontal diffusion furnaces and our automation products. our automation products are useable almost exclusively with horizontal diffusion furnaces. a significant part of our growth strategy involves expanding our sales to the solar industry. the solar industry is subject to risks relating to industry shortages of polysilicon, (which we discuss further below), the continuation of government incentives, the availability of specialized capital equipment, global energy prices and rapidly changing technologies offering alternative energy sources and manufacturing processes. if the demand for solar industry products declines, the demand by the solar industry for our products would also decline and our financial position and results of operations would be harmed. there is a trend in the semiconductor industry, related to the trend to produce smaller chips on larger wafers, towards the use in semiconductor manufacturing facilities of newer technology, such as vertical diffusion furnaces. vertical diffusion furnaces are more efficient than horizontal diffusion furnaces in certain manufacturing processes for smaller chips on larger wafers. to the extent that the trend to use vertical diffusion furnaces over horizontal diffusion furnaces continues, our revenue may decline and our corresponding ability to generate income may be adversely affected. we may not be able to manage the business successfully through severe business cycles. we may be unable to successfully expand or contract our business to meet fluctuating demands. market fluctuations place significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. in fiscal years 2010 and 2011, we purchased additional equipment and real estate to significantly expand our manufacturing capacity and hired additional employees to support an increase in manufacturing, field service, research and development and sales and marketing efforts. during fiscal years 2012 and 2013, the rapid decline in demand has caused us to reduce headcount in manufacturing and field service and to reduce certain research and development costs. to successfully manage our growth, we believe we must effectively: • maintain the appropriate number and mix of permanent, part-time, temporary and contract employees to meet the fluctuating demand for our products;  16 • train, integrate and manage personnel, particularly process engineers, field service engineers, sales and marketing personnel, and financial and information technology personnel to maintain and improve skills and morale; • retain key management and augment our management team, particularly if we lose key members; • continue to enhance our customer resource and manufacturing management systems to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction and efficiencies, including inventory control; • implement and improve existing and new administrative, financial and operations systems, procedures and controls; • expand and upgrade our technological capabilities; and • manage multiple relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. we may encounter difficulties in effectively managing the budgeting, forecasting and other process control issues presented by rapidly changing cycles. if we are unable to manage these cycles effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new technologies for the production of solar cells and other products, satisfy customer requirements, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures.   if governmental subsidies decline or if demand for solar energy declines, our company may not be able to continue making substantial investments in our organization to develop new products for the solar industry which may have a material adverse effect on our business. the solar energy sector is dependent upon governmental subsidies, some of which have been scaled back and are not guaranteed to continue. a further decline in these subsidies could reduce our ability to make investments in our company and grow our business in this market. the solar industry is currently facing overcapacity in production. this overcapacity has a significant adverse impact on the demand for the capital equipment we supply to this industry. as a result of these risks there is no assurance that we will realize a return on these investments which may have a material effect on our business. we are dependent on key personnel for our business and product development and sales, and any loss of our key personnel to competitors or other industries could dramatically impact our ability to continue operations. historically, our product development has been accomplished through cooperative efforts with key customers. our relationships with some customers are substantially dependent on personal relations and other contacts established by either our executive chairman or our president and chief executive officer. our relationships with major european customers that are strategically important to the development and testing of our n-type technology solar diffusion furnace and pecvd equipment are substantially dependent upon our president and chief executive officer, mr. fokko pentinga. while there can be no assurance that such relationships will continue, such cooperation is expected to continue to be a significant element in our future development efforts. furthermore, it may not be feasible for any successor to maintain the same business relationships that our executive chairman, mr. j.s. whang, has established. even though we are the beneficiary of life insurance policies on the life of mr. whang, in the amount of $2.0 million, there is no assurance that such amount will be sufficient to cover the cost of finding and hiring a suitable replacement for mr. whang. if we were to lose the services of either mr. whang or mr. pentinga for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. we also depend on the management efforts of our officers and other key personnel and on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. during times of strong economic growth, competition is intense for highly skilled employees. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel or that we can avoid increased costs in order to do so. there can be no assurance that employees will not leave amtech or compete against us. our failure to attract additional qualified employees, or to retain the services of key personnel, could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations.  we may not be able to keep pace with the rapid change in the technology needed to meet customer requirements. success in the solar and semiconductor equipment industries depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. for example, the solar industry continues to develop new technologies to increase the efficiencies and lower the costs of solar cells. also, the semiconductor industry continues  17 to shrink the size of semiconductor devices. these and other evolving customer needs require us to continually respond with new product developments. technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate professional staffing. our future business success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products, or new uses for existing products, that successfully address changing customer needs and win market acceptance. we must also manufacture these new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. to realize future growth through technical innovations in the solar and semiconductor industries, we must either acquire the technology through product development, merger and acquisition activity or through the licensing of products from our technology partners. potential disruptive technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business if we do not successfully develop and introduce new products, technologies or uses for existing products in a timely manner and continually find ways of reducing the cost to produce them in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements.   acquisitions can result in an increase in our operating costs, divert management's attention away from other operational matters and expose us to other risks associated with acquisitions. we continually evaluate potential acquisitions and consider acquisitions an important part of our future growth strategy. in the past, we have made acquisitions of, or significant investments in, other businesses with synergistic products, services and technologies and plan to continue to do so in the future. acquisitions, including our acquisition of r2d and kingstone, involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of geographically diverse personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired companies; • diversion of management's attention from other operational matters; • the potential loss of our key employees and the key employees of acquired companies; • lack of synergy, or inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition; • the risk that the issuance of our common stock, if any, in an acquisition or merger could be dilutive to our shareholders, if anticipated synergies are not realized; and • acquired assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company. our financial position and results of operations may be materially harmed if our r&d investments do not result in timely new products that can be sold at favorable prices and obtain market acceptance. the rapid change in technology in our industry requires that we continue to make investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance, functionality and cost of ownership of our products to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands for improved performance, features and functionality. there can be no assurance that revenue from future products or enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products or enhancements, or that we will be able to secure the financial resources necessary to fund future development. research and development costs are typically incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. we cannot ensure that products or enhancements will receive market acceptance, or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. in addition, from time to time we receive funding from government agencies for certain strategic development programs to increase our research and development resources and address new market opportunities. as a condition to this government funding, we may be subject to certain record-keeping, audit, intellectual property rights-sharing and/or other obligations. if we do not successfully manage risks resulting from diversification and entry into new markets and industries, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if we fail to maintain optimal inventory levels, our inventory obsolescence costs could increase, our liquidity could be significantly reduced or our revenue could decrease, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully and meet our customers' demands, accumulating excess inventory may have a significant unfavorable impact on our operating results and financial condition. changing customer demands, supplier lead-times and uncertainty surrounding new product launches expose us to risks associated with excess inventory or shortages. demand for products can change rapidly and  18 unexpectedly. our products are manufactured using a wide variety of purchased parts and raw materials and we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to meet the demand for the products we sell. during peak years in the solar and semiconductor industries, increases in demand for capital equipment results in longer lead-times for many important system components. future increases in demand could cause delays in meeting shipments to our customers. because of the variability and uniqueness of customer orders, we try to avoid maintaining an extensive inventory of materials for manufacturing. however, long lead-times for important system components during industry upturns sometimes require us to carry higher levels of inventory and make larger purchase commitments than we would otherwise make. we may be unable to sell sufficient quantities of products in the event that market demand changes, resulting in increased risk of excess inventory that could lead to obsolescence or reduced liquidity as we fulfill our purchase commitments. on the other hand, if we do not have a sufficient inventory of a product to fulfill customer orders, we may lose orders or customers, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure that we can accurately predict market demand and events to avoid inventory shortages or inventories and purchase commitments in excess of our current requirements. supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality issues or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products. we use a wide range of materials and services in the production of our products including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers of materials. although we make what we believe are reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, this may not always be practical or possible. accordingly, some key parts are being procured from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. key vendors include suppliers of controllers, quartz and silicon carbide for our diffusion systems, two steel mills capable of producing the types of steel to the tolerances needed for our wafer carriers, an injection molder that molds plastic inserts into our steel carriers, an adhesive manufacturer that supplies the critical glue and a pad supplier that produces a unique material used in the manufacture of our polishing templates. we also rely on third parties for certain machined parts, steel frames and metal panels and other components used particularly in the assembly of solar and semiconductor production equipment. because the selling price of some of our systems exceeds $1.0 million, the delay in the shipment of even a single system could cause significant variations in our quarterly revenue. in the event of supplier capacity constraints, production disruptions, or failure to meet our requirements concerning quality, cost or performance factors, we may transfer our business to alternative sourcing which could lead to further delays, additional costs or other difficulties. if, in the future, we do not receive, in a timely and cost-effective manner, a sufficient quantity and quality of parts to meet our production requirements, our financial position and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain access to external financing necessary to fund and expand our operations as planned. cash flows may be insufficient to provide adequate working capital in the future and we may require additional financing for further implementation of our growth plans. there is no assurance that any additional financing will be available if and when required, or, even if available, that it would not materially dilute the ownership percentage of the then existing shareholders, result in increased expenses or result in covenants or special rights that would restrict our operations. we may incur impairment charges to goodwill or long-lived assets. we have acquired, and may acquire in the future, goodwill and other long-lived intangible assets. goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually, typically during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. the review compares the fair value for each of our reporting units to its associated carrying value, including goodwill. factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include adverse industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, declines in the market price of our common stock, changes in our strategies or product portfolio, and restructuring activities. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and projections of future operating performance. we may be required to record a charge to earnings during the period in which an impairment of goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined to exist, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  19 most of our production, storage, and administrative facilities are located in close proximity to one another in the netherlands. any damage or disruption at these facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our production, storage and administrative facilities are located in close proximity to one another in the netherlands. a natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophic event, including flood, power interruption, and war, could significantly disrupt our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business. if any of our productions facilities or equipment were to experience any significant damage or downtime, we would be unable to meet our production targets, our business would suffer, and it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  if third parties violate our proprietary rights, in which we have made significant investments, such events could result in a loss of value of some of our intellectual property or costly litigation. our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. we own various united states and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies. protecting and defending our patents domestically, and especially internationally, is costly. in addition, the process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive. therefore, we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or design around the patents we own or license. we also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. however, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld or will successfully deter infringement by third parties. the patent covering technology that we license and use in our manufacture of insert carriers has expired, which may have the effect of diminishing or eliminating any competitive advantage we may have with respect to this manufacturing process. we attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. we also maintain exclusive and non-exclusive licenses with third parties for the technology used in certain products. however, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. in addition, the laws of certain territories, such as china, in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. we may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and could result in our loss of significant rights and the assessment of treble damages. from time to time, we have received communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent rights or other intellectual property rights that they believe cover certain of our products, processes, technologies or information. in such cases, we evaluate our position and consider the available alternatives, which may include seeking licenses to use the technology in question on commercially reasonable terms or defending our position. we cannot ensure that licenses can be obtained, or if obtained will be on acceptable terms, or that litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur. some of these claims may lead to litigation. we cannot assure that we will prevail in these actions, or that other actions alleging misappropriation or misuse by us of third-party trade secrets, infringement by us of third-party patents and trademarks or the validity of our patents, will not be asserted or prosecuted against us. intellectual property litigation, regardless of outcome, is expensive and time-consuming, could divert management's attention from our business and have a material negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. if there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we were to be found to have willfully infringed a third party's patent) to the party claiming infringement, incur costs to develop non-infringing technology, stop selling or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property or, enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or commercially practical terms, if at all. our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business. parties making infringement claims on future issued patents may be able to obtain an injunction that would prevent us from selling or using our technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could harm our business.  20 if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. as a result, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a negative impact on our business and the price of our common stock. to maintain compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 we have assessed, strengthened and tested our system of internal controls. despite our conclusion that our system of internal controls was effective as of september 30, 2013, we must continue to maintain our processes and systems and adapt them to changes in our business as it evolves. this continuous process of maintaining and adapting our internal controls and complying with section 404 is expensive, time-consuming and requires significant management attention. we cannot be certain that our internal control measures will continue to provide adequate control over our financial reporting processes and ensure compliance with section 404. furthermore, as our business changes, our internal controls may become more complex and we may require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. in addition, if we reduce a portion of our workforce, as we have done recently, our ability to adequately maintain our internal controls may be adversely impacted. failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify material weaknesses, the disclosure of that fact may result in negative investor perceptions of our company and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock.   we face the risk of product liability claims or other litigation, which could be expensive and may divert management's attention from running our business. the manufacture and sale of our products, which, in our customers' operations, involve toxic materials and robotic machinery, involve the risk of product liability claims. in addition, a failure of one of our products at a customer site could interrupt the business operations of our customer. our existing insurance coverage limits may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities that we might incur in connection with the manufacture and sale of our products if a successful product liability claim or series of product liability claims were brought against us. we may also be involved in other legal proceedings or claims and experience threats of legal action from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. where appropriate, we intend to vigorously defend all claims. however, any actual or threatened claims, even if not meritorious or material, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. the continued defense of these claims and other types of lawsuits could divert management's attention away from running our business. in addition, required amounts to be paid in settlement of any claims, and the legal fees and other costs associated with their defense or also settlement, cannot be estimated and could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our financial condition. we may also experience higher than expected warranty claims. we are subject to environmental regulations, and our inability or failure to comply with these regulations could result in significant costs or the suspension of our ability to operate portions of our business. we are subject to environmental regulations in connection with our business operations, including regulations related to manufacturing and our customers' use of our products. from time to time, we receive notices regarding these regulations. it is our policy to respond promptly to these notices and to take any necessary corrective action. our failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development, manufacturing or use of certain of our products or facilities, each of which could damage our financial position and results of operations. breaches or failures of our information technology systems may have a negative impact on our operating results and our reputation. we may be subject to breaches or failures of our information technology systems caused by computer viruses, unauthorized access, sabotage, vandalism, terrorism or accident. compromise of our information technology networks could result in unauthorized release of our confidential or proprietary information, or that of our customers and suppliers, as well as employee personal data. breach of our information systems’ security or failure of our systems may also cause a disruption in our manufacturing systems and other operations, and may cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations.  21 the company's income taxes are subject to variables beyond our control. the company's net income and cash flow may be adversely affected by conditions affecting income taxes which are outside the company's control. examples of the potential uncontrollable circumstances that could affect our tax rate: • the company sells and operates globally in the united states, europe and asia. disagreement could occur on the jurisdiction of income and taxation among different governmental tax authorities. potential areas of dispute may include transfer pricing, intercompany charges and intercompany balances. • tax rates may increase and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows.   item 1b. unresolved