item 1a. risk factors   because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.   risks related to our business and industry.   the ongoing volatility of the solar and semiconductor equipment industry may negatively impact our business and results of operations and our corresponding ability to efficiently budget our expenses. the solar and semiconductor equipment industries are highly cyclical. as such, demand for and the profitability of our products can change significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors, including, but not limited to, changes in: • global and regional economic conditions; • changes in capacity utilization and production volume of manufacturers of solar cells, semiconductors, silicon wafers and mems; • the profitability and capital resources of those manufacturers and 11 • the shift of semiconductor production to asia, where there often is increased price competition. for these and other reasons, our results of operations for past periods may not necessarily be indicative of future operating results. since our business has historically been subject to cyclical industry conditions, we have experienced significant fluctuations in our quarterly new orders and net revenue, both within and across years. demand for solar, semiconductor and silicon wafer manufacturing equipment and related consumable products has also been volatile as a result of sudden changes in solar and semiconductor supply and demand and other factors in both semiconductor devices and wafer fabrication processes. our orders tend to be more volatile than our revenue, as any change in demand is reflected immediately in orders booked, which are net of cancellations, while revenue tends to be recognized over multiple quarters as a result of procurement and production lead times and the deferral of certain revenue under our revenue recognition policies. customer delivery schedules on large system orders can also add to this volatility since we generally recognize revenue for new product sales on the date of customer acceptance or the date the contractual customer acceptance provisions lapse. as a result, the fiscal period in which we are able to recognize new product revenue is typically subject to the length of time that our customers require to evaluate the performance of our equipment after shipment and installation, which could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. the purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on their capacity utilization that changes with the level of demand for solar cells and semiconductors and also reflect changes in the economies of both their domestic and foreign markets of the worldwide solar and semiconductor industries. the timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the solar and semiconductor equipment industries are difficult to predict. the cyclical nature of our marketplace affects our ability to accurately budget our expense levels, which are based in part on our projections of future revenue. when cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. during a down cycle, we must be able to make timely adjustments to our cost and expense structure to correspond to the prevailing market conditions. in addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand, which may require additional liquidity. we can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to changes within the industry cycles. our failure to respond to these cyclical changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. we do not have long-term volume production contracts with our customers and we do not control the timing or volume of orders placed by our customers. whether and to what extent our customers place orders for any specific products and the mix and quantities of products included in those orders are factors beyond our control. insufficient orders would result in under-utilization of our manufacturing facilities and infrastructure and will negatively affect our financial position and results of operations.   if demand declines for horizontal diffusion furnaces and related equipment, or for solar industry products, our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the revenue of our solar and semiconductor equipment business is comprised primarily of sales of horizontal diffusion furnaces and our automation products. our automation products are useable almost exclusively with horizontal diffusion furnaces. there is a trend in the semiconductor industry, related to the trend to produce smaller chips on larger wafers, towards the use in semiconductor manufacturing facilities of newer technology, such as vertical diffusion furnaces. vertical diffusion furnaces are more efficient than the horizontal diffusion furnaces in certain manufacturing processes for smaller chips on larger wafers. to the extent that the trend to use vertical diffusion furnaces over horizontal diffusion furnaces continues, our revenue may decline and our corresponding ability to generate income may be adversely affected. a significant part of our growth strategy involves expanding our sales to the solar industry. the solar industry is subject to risks relating to industry shortages of polysilicon, (which we discuss further below), the continuation of government incentives, the availability of specialized capital equipment, global energy prices and rapidly changing technologies offering alternative energy sources and manufacturing processes. if the demand for solar industry products declines, the demand by the solar industry for our products would also decline and our financial position and results of operations would be harmed.   we may not be able to increase or sustain our recent growth rate, and we may not be able to manage our future growth effectively. we may be unable to successfully expand our business or manage future growth. our recent acquisition of kingstone and our recent expansion of operations has placed and any future expansion will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. in the past two years, we purchased additional equipment and real estate to significantly expand our manufacturing capacity and we have hired additional employees to support an increase in manufacturing, field service, research 12 and development and sales and marketing efforts. to successfully manage our growth, we believe we must effectively: • hire, train, integrate and manage additional process engineers, field service engineers, sales and marketing personnel, and financial and information technology personnel; • retain key management and augment our management team, particularly if we lose key members; • continue to enhance our customer resource management and manufacturing management systems; • implement and improve existing and new administrative, financial and operations systems, • procedures and controls; • expand and upgrade our technological capabilities; and • manage multiple relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. we may encounter difficulties in effectively managing the budgeting, forecasting and other process control issues presented by rapid growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new solar cells and other products, satisfy customer requirements, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures.   the company makes substantial investments in its organization to develop new products for the solar industry. sales of our products to the solar industry are subject to substantial risks. the solar energy sector is dependent upon governmental subsidies that are not guaranteed to continue. a decline in these subsidies would reduce our ability to grow our business in this market.  the company is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the solar industry. a significant portion of the company's business is to supply the solar market, which, in addition to the general industry changes described above, is characterized by ongoing changes specific to the solar industry, including: • the varying energy policies of governments around the world and their effect in influencing the rate of growth of the solar pv market, including the availability and amount of government incentives for solar power such as tax credits, feed-in tariffs, rebates, renewable portfolio standards that require electricity providers to sell a targeted amount of energy from renewable sources, and goals for solar installations on government facilities; • the need to continually decrease the cost-per-watt of electricity produced by solar photovoltaic (pv) products to or below grid parity by, among other things, reducing operating costs and increasing throughputs for solar pv manufacturing, and improving the conversion efficiency of solar pv; • the impact on demand for solar pv products arising from the cost of electricity generated by solar pv compared to the cost of electricity from the existing grid or other energy sources; • the growing number of solar pv manufacturers and increasing global production capacity for solar pv, primarily in china as a result of increased solar subsidies and lower manufacturing costs; • the varying levels of operating and industry experience among solar pv manufacturers and the resulting differences in the nature and extent of customer support services requested from the company; • challenges associated with marketing and selling manufacturing equipment and services to a diverse and diffuse customer base; • the cost of polysilicon and other materials; • access to affordable financing and capital by customers and end-users; and • an increasing number of local equipment and parts suppliers based in asia with certain cost and other advantages over suppliers from outside asia. in addition, current projections for global solar pv production exceed anticipated near-term end-use demand, which is heavily dependent on installed cost-per-watt, government policies and incentives, and the availability of affordable capital. an oversupply of solar pv may lead customers to delay or reduce investments in manufacturing capacity and new technology, and adversely impact the sales growth rates and/or profitability of our products. sales of our solar products are also affected by those factors described in the following risk factor related to the semiconductor equipment industry. if the company does not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the solar industry, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the semiconductor equipment industry is competitive and we are relatively small in size and have fewer resources in comparison with our competitors. 13 our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully in the semiconductor market. some of our competitors are diversified companies having substantially greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support capabilities than we can provide. we face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer. these competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products. in addition, we face competition from smaller emerging semiconductor equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer at often a lower price than ours, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. loss of competitive position could impair our prices, customer orders, revenue, gross margin and market share, any of which would negatively affect our financial position and results of operations. our failure to compete successfully with these other companies would seriously harm our business. there is a risk that larger, better-financed competitors will develop and market more advanced products than those that we currently offer, or that competitors with greater financial resources may decrease prices thereby putting us under financial pressure. the occurrence of any of these events could have a negative impact on our revenue.   we are dependent on key personnel for our business and product development and sales, and any loss of our key personnel to competitors or other industries could dramatically impact our ability to continue operations. historically, our product development has been accomplished through cooperative efforts with key customers. our relationship with some customers is substantially dependent on personal relations and other contacts established by our chairman and chief executive officer. furthermore, our relationship with a major european customer that has been instrumental in the development of our small batch vertical furnace is substantially dependent upon our president. while there can be no assurance that such relationships will continue, such cooperation is expected to continue to be a significant element in our future development efforts thereby continuing our reliance on certain of our key personnel. we are the beneficiary of life insurance policies on the life of our chairman and chief executive officer, mr. j. s. whang, in the amount of $2.0 million, but there is no assurance that such amount will be sufficient to cover the cost of finding and hiring a suitable replacement for mr. whang. it may not be feasible for any successor to maintain the same business relationships that mr. whang has established. if we were to lose the services of mr. whang for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. we also depend on the management efforts of our officers and other key personnel and on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. during times of strong economic growth, competition is intense for highly skilled employees. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel or that we can avoid increased costs in order to do so. there can be no assurance that employees will not leave amtech or compete against us. our failure to attract additional qualified employees, or to retain the services of key personnel, could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations.  we may not be able to keep pace with the rapid change in the technology we use in our products. success in the solar and semiconductor equipment industries depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. for example, the semiconductor industry continues to shrink the size of semiconductor devices. these and other evolving customer needs require us to respond with continued development programs. technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate professional staffing. our future business success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products, or new uses for existing products, that successfully address changing customer needs, win market acceptance of these new products or uses and manufacture any new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. to realize future growth through technical innovations in the solar and semiconductor industries, we must either acquire the technology through merger and acquisition activity or through the licensing of products from our technology partners. potential disruptive technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business if we do not successfully develop and introduce new products, technologies or uses for existing products in a timely manner and continually find ways of reducing the cost to produce them in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, .   acquisitions can result in an increase in our operating costs, divert management's attention away from other operational matters and expose us to other risks associated with acquisitions. we continually evaluate potential acquisitions and consider acquisitions an important part of our future growth strategy. in the past, we have made acquisitions of, or significant investments in, other businesses with synergistic products, services and technologies and plan to continue to do so in the future. acquisitions, including our acquisition of r2d and kingstone, involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: 14 • difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of geographically diverse personnel, • operations, technologies and products of acquired companies; • diversion of management's attention from other operational matters; • the potential loss of our key employees and the key employees of acquired companies; • lack of synergy, or inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition; • the risk that the issuance of our common stock, if any, in an acquisition or merger could be dilutive to our • shareholders, if anticipated synergies are not realized; and • acquired assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company. our financial position and results of operations may be materially harmed if our r&d investments do not result in timely, new products that can be sold at favorable prices and obtain market acceptance. the rapid change in technology in our industry requires that we continue to make investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance and functionality of our products, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands for improved performance, features and functionality. there can be no assurance that revenue from future products or enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products or enhancements, or that we will be able to secure the financial resources necessary to fund future development. research and development costs are typically incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. in addition, we cannot ensure that products or enhancements will receive market acceptance, or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. if we are unable to sell our products at favorable prices, or if our products are not accepted by the markets in which we operate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.  if third parties violate our proprietary rights, in which we have made significant investments, such events could result in a loss of value of some of our intellectual property or costly litigation. our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. we own various united states and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies. protecting and defending our patents domestically and especially internationally is costly. in addition, the process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive. therefore, we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or design around the patents we own or license. we also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. however, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld or will successfully deter infringement by third parties. recently, the patent covering technology that we license and use in our manufacture of insert carriers has expired, which may have the effect of diminishing or eliminating any competitive advantage we may have with respect to this manufacturing process. while patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. we attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. we also maintain exclusive and non-exclusive licenses with third parties for the technology used in certain products. however, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. in addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. we may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and could result in our loss of significant rights and the assessment of treble damages. from time to time, we have received communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent rights or other intellectual property rights that they believe cover certain of our products, processes, technologies or information. in such cases, we evaluate our position and consider the available alternatives, which may include seeking licenses to use the technology in question on commercially reasonable terms or defending our position. we cannot ensure that licenses can be obtained, or if obtained will be on acceptable terms, or that litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur. some of these claims may lead to litigation. we cannot assure you that we will prevail in these actions, or that other actions alleging misappropriation or misuse by us of third-party trade secrets, infringement by us of third-party patents and trademarks or the 15 validity of our patents, will not be asserted or prosecuted against us. intellectual property litigation, regardless of outcome, is expensive and time-consuming, could divert management's attention from our business and have a material negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. if there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we were to be found to have willfully infringed a third party's patent) to the party claiming infringement, incur costs to develop non-infringing technology, stop selling or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or commercially practical terms, if at all. our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business. parties making infringement claims on future issued patents may be able to obtain an injunction that would prevent us from selling or using our technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could harm our business.   our reliance on sales to a few major customers and granting credit to those customers places us at financial risk.   we currently sell to a relatively small number of customers, and we expect our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers for the foreseeable future, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that require our equipment in their manufacture. yingli accounted for 15%, 28% and 4% of our net revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. yingli accounts for 33% and 25% of our accounts receivable balance as of september 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. many of our customer relationships have been developed over a short period of time and certain customers are in their early stages of development. the loss of sales to any of these customers would have a significant negative impact on our business. our agreements with these customers may be canceled if we fail to meet certain product specifications, materially breach the agreement or in the event of bankruptcy, and our customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. we cannot be certain that these customers will generate significant revenue for us in the future nor that these customer relationships will continue to develop. if our relationships with other customers do not continue to develop, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenue.   as of september 30, 2011 one customer represented 33% of accounts receivable. as of september 30, 2010 three customers individually represented 25%, 11% and 11% of accounts receivable. yingli accounts for 33% and 25% of our accounts receivable balance as of september 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. a concentration of our receivables from one or a small number of customers places us at risk. our major customers may seek, and on occasion, may receive pricing, payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that are less favorable to the company. in addition, if any one or more of our major customers does not pay us it could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. we attempt to manage this credit risk by performing credit checks, by requiring significant partial payments prior to shipment where appropriate and by actively monitoring collections. we also require letters of credit of certain customers depending on the size of the order, type of customer or its creditworthiness and its country of domicile.   if any of our customers cancels or fails to accept a large system order, our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our backlog includes orders for large systems, such as our diffusion furnaces, with system prices of up to and in excess of $1.0 million depending on the system configuration, options included and any special requirements of the customer. because our orders are typically subject to cancellation or delay by the customer, our backlog at any particular point in time is not necessarily representative of actual sales for succeeding periods, nor is backlog any assurance that we will realize revenue or profit from completing these orders. our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected should any large systems order be canceled prior to shipment, or not be accepted by the customer. we have experienced cancellations in the past. a significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any of our customers that purchase large systems could have a material impact on the collectability of our accounts receivable and our future operating results. our backlog does not provide any assurance that we will realize revenue or profit from those orders or indicate in which period net revenue will be recognized, if ever. our business might be adversely affected by a decline in our sales to foreign customers, significant exchange rate fluctuations and foreign laws.   during fiscal 2010, 93% of our net revenue came from customers outside of north america. during fiscal 2011, 94% of our net revenue came from customers outside of north america as follows: • asia – 88% (includes 69% to china and 16% to taiwan); and • europe – 6%. 16 because of our significant dependence on revenue from international customers, our operating results could be negatively affected by a decline in the economies of any of the countries or regions in which we do business. each region in the global solar and semiconductor equipment market exhibits unique characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. periodic local or international economic downturns, trade balance issues, political instability and fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates could negatively affect our business and results of operations. in addition, we face competition from a number of suppliers based in asia that have certain advantages over suppliers from outside of asia. these advantages include lower operating and regulatory costs, proximity to customers and favorable tariffs. we incurred net foreign currency transaction losses of $0.2 million and $0.4 million in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. while our business generally has not been materially affected in the past by currency fluctuations, there is a risk that it may be materially adversely affected in the future, especially as we continue to expand operations into other countries. such risk includes possible losses due to currency exchange rate fluctuations, possible future prohibitions against repatriation of earnings, or proceeds from disposition of investments, and from possible social and military instability in the case of china, india, south korea, taiwan and possibly elsewhere. our wholly-owned subsidiary, tempress systems, has conducted its operations in the netherlands since 1995. in october 2007 we completed our acquisition of r2d, a french company. in february 2011, we completed our acquisition of kingstone. as a result of these acquisitions in europe and asia, the risk associated with foreign currency translation gains and losses has increased. operations of these companies are subject to the taxation policies, employment and labor laws, transportation regulations, import and export regulations and tariffs, possible foreign exchange restrictions, international monetary fluctuations, and other political, economic and legal policies of their respective country and the countries in which they do business. changes in such laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and costs. we are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. if we fail to maintain optimal inventory levels, our inventory obsolescence costs could increase, our liquidity could be significantly reduced or our revenue could decrease, any of which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully and meet our customers' demands, we must avoid accumulating excess inventory. changing customer demands, supplier lead-times and uncertainty surrounding new product launches expose us to risks associated with excess inventory or shortages. demand for products can change rapidly and unexpectedly. our products are manufactured using a wide variety of purchased parts and raw materials and we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to meet the demand for the products we sell. during peak years in the solar and semiconductor industries, increases in demand for capital equipment results in longer lead-times for many important system components. future increases in demand could cause delays in meeting shipments to our customers. because of the variability and uniqueness of customer orders, we try to avoid maintaining an extensive inventory of materials for manufacturing. however, long lead-times for important system components during industry upturns sometimes require us to carry higher levels of inventory and make larger purchase commitments than we would otherwise make. we may be unable to sell sufficient quantities of products in the event that market demand changes, resulting in increased risk of excess inventory that could lead to obsolescence or reduced liquidity as we fulfill our purchase commitments. on the other hand, if we do not have a sufficient inventory of a product to fulfill customer orders, we may lose orders or customers, which may adversely effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure that we can accurately predict market demand and events and avoid inventory shortages or inventories and purchase commitments in excess of our current requirements. supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality issues or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products. we use a wide range of materials and services in the production of our products including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers of materials key vendors include suppliers of controllers, quartz and silicon carbide for our diffusion systems, two steel mills capable of producing the types of steel to the tolerances needed for our wafer carriers, an injection molder that molds plastic inserts into our steel carriers, an adhesive manufacturer that supplies the critical glue used in the production of the semiconductor polishing templates and a pad supplier that produces a unique material used in the manufacture of the polishing template. we also rely on third parties for certain machined parts, steel frames and metal panels and other components used particularly in the assembly of solar and semiconductor production equipment. although we make what we believe are reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, this is not always practical or possible. accordingly, some key parts are being procured from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. because the selling price of some of our systems exceeds $1.0 million, the delay in the shipment of even a single system could cause significant variations in our quarterly revenue. there can be no assurance that our financial position and results of operations will not be materially and adversely affected if, in the future, we do not receive in a timely and cost-effective manner a sufficient 17 quantity and quality of parts to meet our production requirements. in the event of supplier capacity constraints, production disruptions, or failure to meet our requirements concerning quality, cost or performance factors, we may transfer our business to alternative sourcing which could lead to further delays, additional costs or other difficulties.   we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain access to external financing necessary to fund and expand our operations as planned. we believe that current cash balances, cash flows generated from our operations and additional available financing will provide adequate working capital for at least the next twelve months. however, cash flows may be insufficient for such purposes in the future and we may require additional financing for further implementation of our growth plans. there is no assurance that any additional financing will be available if and when required, or, even if available, that it would not materially dilute the ownership percentage of the then existing shareholders, result in increased expenses or result in covenants or special rights that would restrict our operations. we may incur impairment charges to goodwill or long-lived assets. we have acquired, and may acquire in the future, goodwill and other long-lived intangible assets. goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually, typically during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. the review compares the fair value for each of our reporting units to its associated carrying value, including goodwill. factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include adverse industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, declines in the market price of our common stock, changes in our strategies or product portfolio, and restructuring activities. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and projections of future operating performance. we may be required to record a charge to earnings during the period in which an impairment of goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined to exist, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.   we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate their internal control over financial reporting. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. we have incurred increased expense and have devoted additional management resources to section 404 compliance and we expect that increased expense and use of management resources will continue in the future. a control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the controls system are met. because of the inherent limitations in all controls systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. if, in the future, our ceo, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions of our company may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock.   terrorist attacks and threats or actual war may negatively impact all aspects of our operations, revenue, costs and stock price. the 2001 terrorist attacks in the united states, as well as events occurring in response or connection to them, including future terrorist attacks against the united states, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the united states or its allies or military or trade disruptions impacting our domestic or foreign customers or suppliers of parts, components and subassemblies, may impact our operations, including, among other things, by causing delays or losses in the delivery of supplies or finished goods and decreased sales of our products. more generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the united states and worldwide financial markets and economy. they could also result in economic recession in the united states or abroad. any of these occurrences could have a significant adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.   we face the risk of product liability claims or other litigation, which could be expensive and divert management from running our business. the manufacture and sale of our products, which in operation involve toxic materials and robotic machinery, involve the risk of 18 product liability claims. in addition, a failure of one of our products at a customer site could interrupt the business operations of our customer. our existing insurance coverage limits may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities that we might incur in connection with the manufacture and sale of our products if a successful product liability claim or series of product liability claims were brought against us. we may also be involved in other legal proceedings or claims and experience threats of legal action from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. where appropriate, we intend to vigorously defend all claims. however, any actual or threatened claims, even if not meritorious or material, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. the continued defense of these claims and other types of lawsuits could divert management's attention away from running our business. in addition, required amounts to be paid in settlement of any claims, and the legal fees and other costs associated with their defense or also settlement, cannot be estimated and could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our financial condition. we may also experience higher than expected warranty claims. we are subject to environmental regulations, and our inability or failure to comply with these regulations could result in significant costs or the suspension of our ability to operate portions of our business. we are subject to environmental regulations in connection with our business operations, including regulations related to manufacturing and our customers' use of our products. from time to time, we receive notices regarding these regulations. it is our policy to respond promptly to these notices and to take any necessary corrective action. our failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development, manufacturing or use of certain of our products or facilities, each of which could damage our financial position and results of operations. the company's income taxes are subject to variables beyond our control. the company's net income and cash flow may be adversely affected by conditions affecting income taxes which are outside the company's control. examples of the potential uncontrollable circumstances that could effect our tax rate: • the company sells and operates globally in the united states, europe and asia. disagreement could occur on the jurisdiction of income and taxation among different governmental tax authorities. potential areas of dispute may include transfer pricing, intercompany charges and intercompany balances. • tax rates may increase and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. most of our production, storage, and administrative facilities are located in close proximity to one another in the netherlands. any damage or disruption at these facilities would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our production, storage and administrative facilities are located in close proximity to one another in the netherlands. a natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophic event, including flood, power interruption, and war, could significantly disrupt our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business. if any of our productions facilities or material equipment were to experience any significant damage or downtime, we would be unable to meet our production targets and our business would suffer.   item 1b. unresolved