item 1a. risk factors   investing in our securities involves risk. in evaluating the company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report. each of these risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. in addition, the ''forward-looking statements’’ located in this form 10-k, and the forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference herein describe additional uncertainties associated with our business that should be carefully evaluated prior to making a decision to invest in our securities.   13       we need a strategic partner to assist in developing, manufacture and taking the baccel™ system to market. in may 2008 we began a technical development project with funding from bd. as part of the project agreement, bd also obtained an option to purchase a royalty-bearing global exclusive license for commercial product development, manufacturing, and marketing of the baccel™ system and its technology for application in human infectious diseases. bd declined to exercise its option on september 24, 2009. in 2010 we entered into the evaluation agreement and letter of intent with novartis. the evaluation agreement with novartis expired on september 30, 2011 without novartis exercising its option for licensing the company’s baccel™ system intellectual property. as a result, we will not be receiving any additional technical development fees from novartis. if we are unable to locate a new strategic partner, we may be unable to complete the development of, to manufacture and to bring the baccel™ system to market. failure of the company to obtain a new strategic partner will have a material adverse effect upon the company, its results of operations and an investment in our common stock.    	continuing economic weakness may adversely affect the company. the company, its ability to find a new strategic partner and its ability to continue to conduct operations may be adversely impacted by the current economic conditions.   there has been an erosion of consumer confidence from concerns over declining asset values, price instability, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations. these concerns slowed global economic growth and resulted in a recession in many countries, including in the u.s. the global economic weakness has negatively impacted our operating results since 2008.  while there are signs that the overall economic situation is stabilizing, any recovery in the economy may be weak or short-lived. recessionary conditions may return. if any of these potential negative economic conditions occur, a number of material adverse effects on our business could occur and could have a negative impact upon our results of operations.  further, slower overall growth of the chinese economy may have a material adverse effect upon the company and its results of operations.   dependence on key employees. our success depends to a significant extent upon certain members of management and technical personnel, the loss of one or more of whom could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we carry key man life insurance in the amount of $5 million on thomas v. geimer. the board of directors has adopted resolutions under which one-half of the proceeds of any such insurance will be dedicated to a beneficiary designated by the insured. there can be no assurance that the proceeds from such life insurance would be sufficient to compensate us for the loss of mr. geimer, and these policies do not provide any benefits to the company if mr. geimer becomes disabled or is otherwise unable to render services to the company. further, the loss of david howson, president of the company, may have a material adverse effect upon the company and its business. we believe that our continued success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to develop and market our products, develop new products and to conduct our operations successfully.   14       limited revenues from our products and no assurance of future revenues. we have received limited revenue from sales based on products using our optichem® technology. we have received technical development fees from two strategic partners in connection with our development of the baccel™ system but have conducted no sales. while we have received limited revenues from sales of our optichem® products and license agreements for certain of these products, there is no assurance that we will be successful in marketing our optichem® products in the future or will receive any revenue from such products. further, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in marketing the baccel™ system or will receive any revenues from it. further, there is no assurance we will receive any additional technical development fees in the future. we have experienced losses from operations, however we have had several periods in which we generated positive cash flow from operations. if we are unsuccessful in obtaining revenue from sales of our optichem® technology or to license the baccel™ system to a third party for further development, manufacturing, and marketing, we will likely continue to experience losses from operations and negative cash flow as we have in the past, which may have a material adverse effect upon the company, its results of operations and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected.   our success depends partly on our ability to successfully introduce and the market acceptance of our current and new products. in a market primarily driven by the need for innovative products, our revenue growth will depend on overcoming various technological challenges to successfully introduce our current and new products, including but not limited to the baccel™ system or other technology based upon the intellectual property included in the baccel™ system into the marketplace in a timely manner. in addition, we must continue to develop new applications for our existing technologies, including but not limited to additional commercial applications for the baccel™ system proprietary technology. market acceptance of these products will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, demonstrating that our technologies perform as intended and are superior to other technologies and products that are currently available or may become available in the future.   if we are unable to successfully develop new products or if the market does not accept our products, or even if we experience difficulties or delays in the development of our products, including the baccel™ system, we may be unable to attract additional customers for our products or license our products to other strategic partners, which would seriously harm our business and future growth prospects.   if we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to prevent infringement. our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for the technology underlying our products, especially that used in the baccel™ system, both in the united states and in other countries. we cannot assure you that any of the presently pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, or that any patents issued to us or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated or held unenforceable. further, we cannot guarantee that any patents issued to us will provide us with a significant competitive advantage.   15       if we fail to successfully enforce our proprietary technology or otherwise maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property with respect to our significant current and proposed products, our competitive position, our ability to complete the development of the baccel™ system and future sales or license of this product or technology could suffer, which would have a material adverse effect upon the company and its results of operations.   notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal to or superior to our technology and products without infringing on any of our intellectual property rights or design around our proprietary technologies. if customers prefer these alternative technologies as compared to our technology, it may have a material adverse effect upon the company, its results of operations and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected.   our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. due to the significant number of u.s. and foreign patents issued to, and other intellectual property rights owned by entities operating in the industry in which we operate, we believe that there is a significant risk of litigation arising from infringement of these patents and other rights. third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us or our licensees. we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, for past infringement if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe on a third party's proprietary rights. in addition, even if such claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit may result in substantial expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel.   we may also be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of some of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues. furthermore, claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to enter into royalty or license agreements with third parties, and we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on commercially acceptable terms, if at all.   third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent issued patents owned by or licensed to us or claim that our products and operations infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition to our patents, we possess an array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how and we license intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the measures that we employ to protect this technology and these rights may not be adequate.   we may incur significant expense in any legal proceedings to protect our proprietary rights or to defend infringement claims by third parties. in addition, claims of third parties against us could result in awards of substantial damages or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or abroad.   16       competition. the industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological changes, and we do and may face competition for our products. we may also face competition from non-medical device companies, including pharmaceutical companies that may offer alternatives to our products. many of our competitors have greater research and development, financial, manufacturing, marketing and sales resources than we do. in addition, some of our competitors may, individually or together with companies affiliated with them, have greater human and scientific resources than we do. our competitors could develop technologies and methods that render our technologies and methodologies less competitive. accordingly, if competitors introduce products that are more effective than our current and proposed technologies, including but not limited to the baccel™ system, it could have a material adverse effect upon the company, its results of operations and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected.   ability to respond to technological change. our future success will depend significantly on our ability to enhance our current products and develop or acquire and market new products that keep pace with technological developments and evolving industry standards as well as respond to changes in customer needs. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing or acquiring product enhancements or new products to address changing technologies and customer requirements adequately, that we can introduce such products on a timely basis or that any such products or enhancements will be successful in the marketplace. our delay or failure to develop or acquire technological improvements or to adapt our products to technological change would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   shares eligible for future sale. as of july 31, 2011, we had reserved 1,500,000 shares of common stock for issuance upon exercise of options which have been or may be granted pursuant to our stock option plans. as of july 31, 2011, 759,000 options had been granted pursuant to the qualified plan with 317,500 of these options exercised, 231,500 options that expired, leaving 172,500 available for grant and 370,000 options had been granted pursuant to the non-qualified plan with 185,000 of these options exercised, 80,000 options that expired, 50,000 that were cancelled and 60,000 available for grant. as of july 31, 2010, 620,000 options had been granted pursuant to the omnibus plan with 5,000 of these options exercised, 130,000 expired leaving 10,000 available for grant.   the 1,129,110 warrants exercised by mr. geimer were exercised at $0.24 per share on october 14, 1997 and contributed to a rabbi trust. under the terms of the rabbi trust, we will hold the shares in the trust, and carry them as treasury stock. the rabbi trust provides that upon mr. geimer's death, disability or termination of his employment, the shares will be released ratably over the subsequent ten (10) years, unless the board of directors determines otherwise. see note 7 to the financial statements for further information. sales of common stock underlying plan options or sold if released from the rabbi trust may adversely affect the price of the common stock.   17       we use hazardous materials in some of our research, development and manufacturing processes. our research activities sometimes involve the controlled use of various hazardous materials. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. we could be held liable for any damages that might result from any accident involving such materials. any such liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products.   we have a single research and development facility and we may lose revenue and be unable to continue to conduct our research and development and product development activities if we lose this facility. we conduct all of our research and development and product development activities in our existing facility in denver, colorado which lease expires in september 2012. if the lease term is not extended or if for whatever reason we were unable to use this facility to conduct our research and development and product development activities, we would have no other means of conducting such activities until we were able to restore such capabilities at our facility or develop an alternative facility. further, in such an event, we may lose revenue and significant time during which we might otherwise have conducted research and development and product development activities. further, we may not be able to maintain our relationships with our licensees, customers or any future strategic development partners. while we carry a nominal amount of business interruption insurance to cover lost revenue and profits, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. in addition, our business interruption insurance would not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact on relations with our licensees, customers or any future strategic development partners. the loss of facility may have a material adverse effect upon the company and its results of operations.   our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of intellectual property. as of july 31, 2011, our total assets of $6,264,338 included $2,788,009 of intellectual property. these assets have historically been amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. intangible assets to be held and used by the company are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. we continuously evaluate the recoverability of these items based on estimated future cash flows from and estimated fair value of such assets, and provide for impairment if such undiscounted cash flows are insufficient to recover the carrying amount of the asset. future impairment testing may result in additional intangible asset write-offs, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.   18       our business strategy approach may be adversely affected by additional healthcare reform and changes in managed healthcare. our vision is to develop and commercialize the baccel™ system, an innovative, integrated system for rapid identification of bacterial and its antibiotic resistance in critically ill patients. healthcare reform and the growth of managed care organizations have been considerable forces in the medical diagnostics industry and in recent political discussions. these forces continue to and are expected in the future to place constraints on the levels of overall pricing and thus could have a material adverse effect on our future profit margins of our products or the amounts that we are able to receive from third parties for the licensing of such products. such continuing changes in the united states healthcare market could also force us to alter our approach to selling, marketing, distributing and servicing our products and customer base. in and outside the united states, changes to government reimbursement policies could reduce the funding that healthcare service providers have available for diagnostic product expenditures, which could have a material adverse impact on the use of the products we are developing and our future sales, license and royalty fees and /or profit margin.   we make significant investments in research and development, but there is no guarantee that any of these investments will ultimately result in a commercial product that will generate revenues. the baccel™ system integrates several of our component products, systems and processes. for the year ended july 31, 2011, we spent $454,997 and during the fiscal year ended july 31, 2010 we spent $501,600 on research and development expenses. notwithstanding these investments, we anticipate that we will have to spend additional funds in the research and development of the baccel™ system. there can be no assurance that the baccel™ system will be successful, or even if it is successful will be accepted in the marketplace. further, we might also encounter substantial delays in getting products to market in a timely fashion. there can be no assurance that we will complete the development of the baccel system, will bring it to market or will generate revenues from licensing or sales.   our future success, profitability and continued existence is dependent in large part upon the successful development of the baccel™ system. our future success, profitability and continued existence is dependent in large part on our successful development of the baccel™ system. we have spent a significant amount of resources developing the baccel™ system and there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop the baccel™ system. if we are not successful in the development of the baccel™ system or if we are unable to sell it into the marketplace or license it to a third party strategic partner for its development, manufacturing and marketing, it would have a material adverse effect upon the company’s revenues and results of operations, it could lead to impairment of certain of our intellectual property and would likely have a material adverse effect upon the price of the our common stock, our results of operations and may result in us having to cease operations.   19       changes in our business strategy or plans may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. if our business strategy or plans change, whether in response to changes in economic conditions or developments in the diagnostics industry, or otherwise, we may be required to expend significantly more resources than planned to develop the baccel™ system or other new products. the expense of such change could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.   compliance costs with recently enacted changes in the securities laws and regulations pursuant to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 will increase our costs. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 that became law in july 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure, accounting and compliance practices. in response to the requirements of that act, the securities and exchange commission and the nyse amex equities have promulgated rules on a variety of subjects. compliance with these rules as well as the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 has increased our legal, financial and accounting costs, and we expect the cost of compliance with these new rules to continue to increase and to be permanent. further, the new rules may increase the expenses associated with our director and officer liability insurance.   section 404 of the sarbanes oxley act of 2002 compliance. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (“section 404”) requires us to include management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report on form 10-k. a material weakness is defined as a significant deficiency or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented by our internal control over financial reporting. a significant deficiency means a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects our ability to initiate, record, process or report financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of our financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected by our internal control over financial reporting.   in the event that we find material weaknesses in the future and do not adequately remedy these material weaknesses, and if we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls in future periods, we could become subject to potential review by the nyse amex equities, the securities and exchange commission or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources, could result in our delisting from the nyse amex equities and could compromise our ability to run our business effectively, could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and could have a material adverse effect upon the company and could result in a reduction in the price of our common stock.   our stock price has been volatile and may continue to be volatile; dividend policy. the trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile, in large part attributable to developments and circumstances related to factors identified in "forward-looking statements" and "risk factors" and the markets response to our operations and financial condition. the market value of your investment in our common stock may rise or fall sharply at any time because of this volatility, and also because of significant short positions that may be taken by investors from time to time in our stock. during the fiscal year ended july 31, 2011, the closing sale price for our common stock ranged from $0.67 to $7.17 per share. the market prices for securities of medical technology companies historically have been highly volatile, and the market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. further, we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.   20       colorado law and our articles of incorporation may protect our directors from certain types of lawsuits. colorado law provides that our directors will not be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for all but certain types of conduct as directors. our articles of incorporation permit us to indemnify our directors and officers against all damages incurred in connection with our business to the fullest extent provided or allowed by law. the exculpation provisions may have the effect of preventing stockholders from recovering damages against our directors caused by their negligence, poor judgment or other circumstances. the indemnification provisions may require us to use our limited assets to defend our directors and officers against claims, including claims arising out of their negligence, poor judgment, or other circumstances.   we will require additional capital in the future and we cannot assure you that capital will be available on reasonable terms, if at all, or on terms that would not cause substantial dilution to your stock holdings. the company’s continued operations will require either a strategic partner that will make an investment in the company or funds its operations contractually and the development of the baccel™ system and sell it into the marketplace or license it to a third party strategic partner for its development, manufacturing and marketing or raising additional capital in the immediate future. as of the date of this annual report, we do not have a long term strategic partner that has agreed to do this. we have historically relied upon our existing cash balance, revenues, including development fees, and capital from the sale of our securities to fund our operating losses and we expect that we will continue to incur operating losses until we are able to complete the development of the baccel™ system and sell it into the marketplace or license it to a third party strategic partner for its development, manufacturing and marketing. if capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional capital sooner than expected. there can be no assurance that such capital will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. further, any sale of a substantial number of additional shares will cause dilution to an investment in our common stock and could also cause the market price of our common stock to decline.   we have the authority to issue up to 19,000,000 shares of common stock (of which, as of october 19, 2011, 11,103,367 shares were outstanding) and to issue shares of our common stock upon the exercise of options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. issuances of additional shares of our stock in the future could dilute existing shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   21       glossary   antibody: a specialized protein (immunoglobulin) produced by the immune response that binds to a particular molecular surface that has previously been presented to certain cells in the organism's blood. the end-product of the "humoral" component of the immune response. key component of immunoassays detecting as the analyte-specific detection agent. antigen: the material used to stimulate immune antibody production in an organism.   assay, qualitative: a chemical test in which the result is expressed as the presence or absence of an analyte. also referred to as "detection," as opposed to measuring the amount of material.   assay, quantitative: a test in which the result is expressed as the quantity of analyte in a sample. quantitative assays may be used to determine whether the amount of analyte is above or below a "cut-point" that distinguishes an acceptable level of the analyte, such as a food pathogen, from an unacceptable level.   culturing (bacterial): the analytical process of growing bacteria from a patient specimen (blood, sputum, etc.) to a quantity suitable for isolation and analysis.   dna: the nucleic acid biomolecules that carry an organism's genetic code. the famous "double helix" molecular model of watson and crick.   gene: a sequence of dna or rna that produces a functional protein product when translated by the normal biosynthetic route.   genomics: the study, including sequencing, of molecules that carry an organism's genetic code (nucleic acids, dna and rna).   genotype: the dna gene sequence makeup that distinguishes one type of organism from another. genotype differences may or may not directly correlate with phenotypes (see definition below).   immunoassay: any type of biochemical assay that uses antigen-antibody affinity as the assay basis of selection and detection.   isolation (bacterial): the technique of growing bacterial cultures on selective media in such a way that only particular species grow successfully, thereby isolating colonies of the species for further analysis   microarray: a regular geometric array (matrix or grid pattern) of individual reactive chemical probes affixed to a physical substrate such as a microscope slide. used in assays to conduct thousands of analyses at one time on sample materials presented to the microarray. the high-density evolution of the microtiter plate.   22       microtiter plate: a multi-well plate (typically 96 wells) of standard dimensions in which individual reactions occur near-simultaneously with different reagents. analyzed visually or by automated optical plate readers. currently the most widely-used standard laboratory assay format.   nucleic acid: dna (deoxyribo-nucleic acid) or rna (ribo-nucleic acid). polymeric chains of nucleotides whose particular sequence constitutes an organism's genetic code (dna and genomic rna) or that participate in the biosynthesis of new protein molecules (other types of rna such as messenger rna, transfer rna, and ribosomal rna).   pathogen: an infectious organism (bacteria, viruses, molds and fungi, prions) that when invading a host causes a disease. pathogens may be transmitted through food, water, air, and/or contact with infected individuals or their biological fluids.   phenotype: for microorganisms, the functional responses or observable characteristics that differentiate one set of organisms from another within the same species. the basis for strain differentiation based on observable behavior or properties other than those expressed in the genotype.   protein: biological polymeric macromolecules formed by long chains of amino acids (twenty in humans) and which provide the mechanism for cellular physiology and metabolism. all life functions are carried out through the mediation of proteins (typically enzymes).   sensitivity: the smallest quantity of analyte that the assay can detect. same as "limit of detection." statistically, the proportion of false negatives reported for a population sample.   strain (bacterial): variants or phenotypes of a bacterial species that exhibit significant characteristics that allow discrimination of one strain from another. in clinical application usually distinguished on the basis of disease severity, toxic products, antibiotic resistance, and other medically relevant properties.   surface chemistry: the chemistry of materials that provide a barrier or contact surface. in the context of biochemical assays, the chemistry of all exposed surface area that may come into contact with assay reagents.   ventilator associated pneumonia (vap): a version of hospital-acquired pneumonia whose symptoms first appear at least 48 hours after starting mechanical ventilation.   23       item 1b. unresolved