item 1a.  risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of future operations.  these risks are not the only ones we face.  our business operations could also be impaired by additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. we are dependent on our management and other personnel, and the failure to attract and retain such individuals could adversely affect our operations. we have recently experienced significant changes in our executive leadership.  on march 28, 2011, john a. meyer resigned as the chief executive officer, president and a director of the company.  the board of directors appointed jerry d. gramaglia, a member of the company’s board of directors, as interim chief executive officer and president of the company, while the board conducts a search for a permanent replacement for mr. meyer.  additionally, christopher w. wolf intends to resign as the chief financial officer of the company effective june 1, 2011.   changes in key leadership positions within the company, such as the addition of new personnel and the departure of existing personnel, can be disruptive, might lead to additional departures of existing personnel, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial results and internal controls over financial reporting. failure to keep up with rapidly changing technologies and marketing practices could cause our products and services to become less competitive. the complexity and uncertainty regarding the development of new technologies affect our business greatly, as does the loss of market share through competition, and the extent and timing of market acceptance of innovative products and technology.  we are also potentially affected by:   ·   longer sales cycles for our solutions due to the nature of that technology as an enterprise-wide solution; ·   the introduction of competent, competitive products or technologies by other companies; ·   changes in the consumer and/or business information industries and markets, including the decline in the use of direct mail marketing and the ever-increasing use of alternative marketing channels such as online advertising, which could result in lower profit margins for the company; ·   the ability to protect our proprietary information and technology or to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms; and ·   the impact of changing legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, cultural and consumer environments in the geographies where our products and services are deployed. maintaining technological competitiveness in our data products, processing functionality, software systems and services is key to our continued success.  our ability to continually improve our current processes and to develop and introduce new products and services is essential in order to maintain our competitive position and meet the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our clients.  if we fail to do so, we could lose clients to current or future competitors, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share.     13   changes in legislative, judicial, regulatory, cultural or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use data. there could be a material adverse impact on our business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, the issuance of judicial interpretations, or simply a change in customs, arising from the increasing public concern over consumer privacy issues.  in the u.s., both the congress and the legislatures of various states have recently focused their attention on matters concerning the collection and use of consumer data.  in most of the non-u.s. locations in which we do business, legislation restricting the collection and use of personal data already exists.  many times restrictions are placed on the use of data upon the occurrence of unanticipated events that rapidly drive the adoption of legislation or regulation.  restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information, which could result in a material increase in the cost of collecting some kinds of data.  in the u.s. the general data collection regime provides that non-sensitive data is usable so long as the person does not affirmatively “opt-out” of the collection of such data.  in europe the reverse is true.  if the european model were adopted in the u.s. it would lead to less data being available and at a higher cost.  it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could in turn materially adversely affect our ability to meet our clients’ requirements, potentially resulting in decreased revenues, net income, and earnings per share. we could experience a breach of the confidentiality of the information we hold or of the security of our computer systems. we operate extremely complex computer systems that contain personally identifiable data.  unauthorized third parties could attempt to gain entry to such systems for the purpose of stealing data or disrupting the systems.  we believe that we have taken adequate measures to protect them from intrusion, but in the event that our efforts are unsuccessful we could suffer significant harm.  further, we handle large quantities of personally identifiable information that must be maintained on a confidential basis.  in the event the confidentiality of such information was compromised, we could suffer significant harm. data suppliers might withdraw data from us, leading to our inability to provide products and services to our clients which could lead to decreases in our operating results. much of the data that we use is either purchased or licensed from third parties.  we compile the remainder of the data that we use from public record sources.  we could suffer a material adverse effect if owners of the data we use were to withdraw the data from us.  data providers could withdraw their data from us if there is a competitive reason to do so, or if legislation is passed restricting the use of the data, or if judicial interpretations are issued restricting use of data.  if a substantial number of data providers were to withdraw their data, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. the nature and volume of our customer contracts may affect the predictability of our revenues. while a significant amount of our total revenue is currently derived from clients who have long-term contracts (defined as contracts with initial terms of two years or more), these contracts have been entered into at various times and therefore some of them are in the latter part of their terms and are approaching their originally scheduled expiration dates.  if renewed by the customer, the terms of the renewal contract may not have a term as long as, or may otherwise be on terms less favorable than, the original contract.  revenue from customers with long-term contracts is not necessarily “fixed” or guaranteed as portions of the revenue from these customers is volume-driven or project-related.  with respect to the portion of our business that is not under long-term contract, revenues are less predictable and are almost completely volume-driven or project-related.  therefore, we must engage in continual sales efforts to maintain revenue stability and future growth with these customers.  in addition, if a significant customer fails to renew a contract, our business could be negatively impacted if additional business is not obtained to replace the business which was lost.   14   our operations outside the u.s. subject us to risks normally associated with international operations.   during the last fiscal year, we received approximately 14% of our revenues from business outside the united states.  as part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to pursue opportunities outside the u.s. and in order to do this we must continue to strengthen our foreign operations, hire additional personnel, and continue to identify and execute beneficial strategic alliances.  to the extent that we are unable to do these things in a timely manner, our growth, if any, in non-u.s. revenues will be limited and our operating results could be materially adversely affected. in general, each of our foreign locations is expected to fund its own operations and cash flows, although periodically funds may be loaned or invested from the u.s. to the foreign subsidiaries.  therefore, exchange rate movements of foreign currencies may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from foreign investments.  we have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  from time to time we enter geographical markets where the types of products and services we offer have not been generally available. as a result of having to educate and condition those markets, it is very difficult to predict the success of such entry. additional risks inherent in our non-u.s. business activities generally include, among others, potentially longer accounts receivable payment cycles, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, potentially adverse tax consequences, and greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights.  the various risks which are inherent in doing business in the united states are also generally applicable to doing business outside of the united states and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. loss of data center capacity or interruption of telecommunication links could adversely affect our business. our business is heavily dependent upon highly complex data processing capability.  our ability to protect our data centers against damage or interruption from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other disasters is critical to our future.  the online services we provide are dependent on links to telecommunication providers.  we believe we have taken reasonable precautions to protect our data centers and telecommunication links from events that could interrupt our operations.  any damage to our data centers or any failure of our telecommunications links that causes interruptions in our operations could materially adversely affect our ability to meet our clients' requirements, which could result in decreased revenues, net income, and earnings per share. failure to favorably negotiate or effectively integrate acquisitions or alliances could adversely affect our business. as part of our growth strategy we may continue to acquire other complementary businesses, products and technologies or enter into joint ventures or similar strategic relationships.  while we believe we will be able to successfully integrate recently acquired businesses into our existing operations, there is no certainty that future acquisitions or alliances will be consummated on acceptable terms or that we will be able to integrate successfully the services, content, products and personnel of any such transaction into our operations.  in addition, any future acquisitions, joint ventures or similar relationships may cause a disruption in our ongoing business and distract our management.  there is also no assurance that we would derive the revenue improvements, cost savings and other intended benefits of any such transaction.  the occurrence of any of these events could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. our traditional direct marketing business could be negatively affected by rising postal costs, the green movement and the shift to alternative marketing channels, including online communications.  postal rate increases are now expected to occur every year.  the most recent increase in the u.s. became effective in april 2011.   as postal rates rise, we expect to see increased pressure on direct mailers to leverage digital and other forms of online communication and to mail fewer pieces. those in the traditional direct mail business, as well as the postal service, are under growing pressure to reduce their impact on the environment.  it is uncertain at this time what either marketers or the postal service will do to lessen their impact.  from a postal service perspective, the actions to be taken may involve changing certain aspects of mail service that would negatively affect direct marketers.  from a marketer’s perspective, such actions could have the same effect as increased rates, thereby causing them to mail fewer pieces.  we are actively investing in multichannel marketing services in addition to maintaining our ability to continue servicing traditional direct mail customers and expect to offset some of the declining revenues associated with regular mail.  this dual focus could, however, result in the loss of business with some direct mailers, thereby negatively affecting us by decreasing the amount of processing services our clients purchase from us, which could result in lower revenues, net income and earnings per share.   15   industry consolidations could result in increased competition for our products and services. our industry has experienced a variety of business combinations that have consolidated our competitors.  the possibility of the consolidation or merger of companies who might combine forces to create a single-source provider of multiple services to the marketplace in which we compete could result in increased price competition for us which would negatively affect our business results.  we currently compete against numerous providers of a single service or product in several separate market spaces.  (see the discussion above under “competition.”)  since we offer a larger variety of services than many of our current competitors, we have been able to successfully compete against them in most instances.  however, the dynamics of the marketplace could be significantly altered if some of the single-service providers were to combine with each other to provide a wider variety of services. processing errors or delays in completing service level requirements for our clients could result in negative financial consequences. processing errors could result in the issuance of credits to clients, the re-performance of work, and/or the payment of damages.  likewise, the failure to meet contractual service level requirements or to meet specified goals with contractual timeframes could result in monetary penalties or lost revenue. our engagements with certain clients, particularly those with long-term, fixed-priced agreements, may not be profitable. the pricing and other terms of our client contracts, particularly our long-term it outsourcing agreements, require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. these estimates reflect our best judgments regarding the nature of the engagement and our expected costs to provide the contracted services.  any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse affect on our profit margin.  our exposure to this risk increases generally in proportion to the scope of the client contract and is higher in the early stages of such a contract.  in addition, a majority of our it outsourcing contracts contain some fixed-price, incentive-based or other pricing terms that condition our fee on our ability to meet defined goals.  our failure to meet a client's expectations in any type of contract may result in an unprofitable engagement which could adversely affect our operating results. our ability to recover significant up-front capital investments required by certain client contracts is subject to risks. a few of our client contracts require significant investment in the early stages which is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the contract.  these contracts often involve the construction of new computer systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of new technologies.  substantial performance risk exists in each contract with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these contracts are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction and deployment phases.  failure to recover such capital investments could materially adversely affect our operating results. deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions.  any such changes could adversely affect our customers’ desire and ability to engage our services, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. the recent disruptions in credit and other financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions, could, among other things:   16     ·   make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future;   ·   cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any technical or other waivers under our credit agreements to the extent we may seek them in the future;   ·   impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers, thereby increasing customer bad debts;   ·   decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities; and   ·   impair the financial viability of our insurers. item 1b.  unresolved