item 1a.  risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of future operations.  these risks are not the only ones we face.  our business operations could also be impaired by additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. continued management and key employee turnover or failure to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel could adversely affect our operations. we have recently experienced significant changes in our executive leadership.  in 2011, we announced the resignations of our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, and executive vice president - sales, marketing & consulting.  we have since appointed a new chief executive officer, scott howe, in july 2011; a new chief financial officer, warren jenson, in january 2012; a new chief revenue officer, nada stirratt, also in january 2012; and a new chief product and engineering officer, phil mui, in may 2012. continuing or unexpected turnover in key leadership positions within the company may adversely impact our ability to manage the company efficiently and effectively.  furthermore, such turnover can be disruptive and distracting to management, may lead to additional departures of existing personnel, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial results and internal controls over financial reporting. failure to keep up with rapidly changing technologies and marketing practices could cause our products and services to become less competitive or obsolete, which could result in loss of market share and decreased revenues and net income. maintaining the technological competitiveness of our data products, processing functionality, software systems and services is key to our continued success.  however, the complexity and uncertainty regarding the development of new technologies and the extent and timing of market acceptance of innovative products and services create difficulties in maintaining this competiveness.  consumer needs and the business information industry as a whole are in a constant state of change.  for example, in recent years, we have seen a decline in the use of direct mail marketing and an increase in the use of alternative marketing channels such as on-line advertising.  our ability to continually improve our current processes and products in response to changes in technology and to develop new products and services are essential in maintaining our competitive position, preserving our market share and meeting the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our clients.  if we fail to enhance our current products and services or fail to develop new products in light of emerging technologies and industry standards, we could lose clients to current or future competitors, which could result in impairment of our growth prospects, loss of market share and decreased revenues.   14   new products and pricing strategies introduced by our competitors in the markets where our products and services are offered could decrease our market share or cause us to lower our prices in a manner that reduces our operating margin and the profitability of our products. the resources we allocate to each market in which we compete vary, just as do the number and size of our competitors across these markets.  in any given market, our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources allocated to serving customers.  these competitors may be in a better position to develop new products and pricing strategies that more quickly and effectively respond to changes in customer requirements in these markets.  such introduction of competent, competitive products, pricing strategies or other technologies by our competitors that are superior to or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services could adversely affect our business.  in such event, we could experience a decline in market share and be forced to reduce our prices, resulting in lower profit margins for the company. changes in legislative, judicial, regulatory, cultural or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may limit our ability to collect and use data.  such developments could cause revenues to decline and adversely affect the demand for our products. there could be a material adverse impact on our business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, the issuance of judicial interpretations, or simply a change in customs, arising from the increasing public concern over consumer privacy issues.  in the u.s., both congress and the legislatures of various states have recently focused their attention on matters concerning the collection and use of consumer data.  in all of the non-u.s. locations in which we do business, legislation restricting the collection and use of personal data already exists or is being contemplated.  restrictions are often placed on the use of data upon the occurrence of unanticipated events that rapidly drive the adoption of legislation or regulation.  restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information, which could result in a material increase in the cost of collecting certain kinds of data.  in the u.s., non-sensitive data is generally usable under current rules and regulations so long as the person does not affirmatively “opt-out” of the collection of such data.  in europe the reverse is true.  if the european model were to be adopted in the u.s. it would lead to less data being available and at a higher cost.  the increased costs and decreased availability of information could adversely affect our ability to meet our clients’ requirements and could result in decreased revenues.  additionally, legislative, regulatory or cultural change could negatively influence, change or reduce our current and prospective clients’ demand for our products and services, which could also adversely affect our results of operations. a significant breach of the confidentiality of the information we hold or of the security of our computer systems could be detrimental to our business, reputation and results of operations. we operate complex computer systems that contain personally identifiable data, much of which must be maintained on a confidential basis.  unauthorized third parties could attempt to gain entry to our systems for the purpose of stealing data or disrupting the systems.  we believe that we have taken adequate measures to protect our systems from intrusion, but we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities in our systems and attempts to exploit those vulnerabilities, physical system or facility break-ins and data thefts or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting our systems and the information we possess.  in the event that our protection efforts are unsuccessful and we experience an unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or the security of such information or our systems is compromised, we could suffer substantial harm.  such a security breach could result in operation disruptions that impair our ability to meet our clients’ requirements, which could result in decreased revenues.  also, our reputation could suffer irreparable harm, causing our current and prospective clients to reject our products and services in the future.  further, we could be forced to expend significant company resources in response to a security breach, including repairing system damage, increasing cyber security protection costs by deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, and litigating and resolving legal claims, all of which could divert the attention of our management and key personnel away from our business operations.  in any event, a significant security breach could result in significant harm to our business, financial condition and operating results.   15   significant system disruptions, loss of data center capacity or interruption of telecommunication links could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our business is heavily dependent upon highly complex data processing capability.  our ability to protect our data centers against damage or interruption from fire, flood, tornadoes, power loss, telecommunications or equipment failure or other disasters and events beyond our control is critical to our future.  the online services we provide are dependent on links to telecommunication providers.  we believe we have taken reasonable precautions to protect our data centers and telecommunication links from events that could interrupt our operations.  any damage to our data centers or any failure of our telecommunications links that causes loss of data center capacity or otherwise causes interruptions in our operations, however, could materially adversely affect our ability to quickly and effectively respond to our clients’ requirements, which could result in loss of their confidence, adversely impact our ability to attract new clients and force us to expend significant company resources to repair the damage.  such events could result in decreased revenues, net income, and earnings per share. data suppliers may withdraw data that we have previously collected or withhold data from us in the future, leading to our inability to provide products and services to our clients which could lead to a decrease in our operating results. much of the data that we use is either purchased or licensed from third-party data suppliers, and we are dependent upon our ability to obtain necessary data licenses on commercially reasonable terms.  we compile the remainder of the data that we use from public record sources.  we could suffer material adverse consequences if our data suppliers were to withhold their data from us, which could occur either because we fail to maintain sufficient relationships with the suppliers or if they decline to provide (or are prohibited from providing) such data to us due to legal, contractual, privacy, competition or other economic concerns.  for example, data suppliers could withhold their data from us if there is a competitive reason to do so, if we breach our contract with a supplier, if they are acquired by one of our competitors, if legislation is passed restricting the use of the data they provide, or if judicial interpretations are issued restricting use of such data.  furthermore, we could terminate relationships with our data suppliers if they fail to adhere to our data quality standards.  if a substantial number of data suppliers were to withdraw or withhold their data from us, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. if the customer contracts upon which we rely for a significant portion of our revenues are cancelled or if the terms of these contracts were to materially change, or if these customers are negatively impacted by current or future economic conditions, our operating results could suffer.   while a significant amount of our total revenue is currently derived from clients who have long-term contracts (defined as contracts with initial terms of two years or more), these contracts have been entered into at various times, and some of them are in the latter part of their terms and are approaching their originally scheduled expiration dates.  in addition, many of these contracts contain provisions allowing the client to terminate prior to the end of the term upon giving advance notice.  there is no guarantee that these clients will renew their contracts upon expiration or will not terminate prior to then.  even if renewed by these clients, the terms of the renewal contracts may not have a term as long as, or may otherwise be on terms less favorable than, the original contract.  revenue from customers with long-term contracts is not necessarily “fixed” or guaranteed as portions of the revenue from these customers is volume-driven or project-related.  with respect to the portion of our business that is not under long-term contract, revenues are even less predictable than with long-term contracts and are almost completely volume-driven or project-related.  therefore, we must engage in continual sales efforts to maintain revenue stability and future growth with all of our clients and customers or our operating results will suffer.  if a significant customer fails to renew a contract, or renews the contract on terms less favorable to us than before, our business could be negatively impacted if additional business were not obtained to replace or supplement that which was lost. our products and services have long and variable sales cycles due to their nature as enterprise-wide solutions.  failure to accurately predict these sales cycles could impair our ability to forecast operating results, which could result in a decline in the market value of our stock. because we have longer sales cycles for our products and solutions, revenues and operating results may vary significantly from period to period.  as purchasers of our products and services, our clients and prospective customers are often faced with a significant commitment of capital, integrating new software and/or hardware platforms and changes in operational procedures, all of which result in long sales cycles and delays in completing transactions.  as a       16   result, it is often difficult to accurately forecast our revenues on a quarterly basis as it is not always possible for us to predict the quarter in which sales will actually be completed.  our difficulty in predicting revenue, combined with the revenue fluctuations we may experience from quarter to quarter, can adversely affect our stock price. our operations outside the u.s. are subject to risks that may harm the company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. during the last fiscal year, we received approximately 14% of our revenues from business outside the united states.  as a result of recent dispositions of operations in certain foreign countries, we expect that our revenues from business outside the united states could account for a smaller portion of our revenues in future years. the cost of executing our business plan in non-u.s. locations is increasingly expensive.  in those non-u.s. locations where legislation restricting the collection and use of personal data currently exists, less data is available and at a much higher cost.  in some foreign markets, the types of products and services we offer have not been generally available and thus are not fully understood by prospective customers.  upon entering these markets, we have to educate and condition the markets, increasing the cost and difficulty of successfully executing our business plan in these markets.  additionally, each of our foreign locations is generally expected to fund its own operations and cash flows, although periodically funds may be loaned or invested from the u.s. to the foreign subsidiaries.  as a result of such loan or investment, exchange rate movements of foreign currencies may have an impact on our future costs of, or future cash flows from, foreign investments, and we have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. additional risks inherent in our non-u.s. business activities generally include, among others, potentially longer accounts receivable payment cycles, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, potentially adverse tax consequences, and greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights.  the various risks which are inherent in doing business in the u.s. are also generally applicable to doing business outside of the u.s., but such risks may be exaggerated by factors normally associated with international operations, such as differences in culture, laws and regulations, especially restrictions on collection, management, aggregation and use of information.  failure to effectively manage the risks facing our non-u.s. business activities could materially adversely affect our operating results. failure to favorably negotiate or effectively integrate acquisitions or alliances could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. from time to time, we may continue to acquire other complementary businesses, products and technologies and enter into joint ventures or similar strategic relationships.  while we believe we will be able to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into our existing operations, there is no certainty that future acquisitions or alliances will be consummated on acceptable terms or that we will be able to integrate successfully the services, content, products and personnel of any such transaction into our operations.  in addition, any future acquisitions, joint ventures or similar relationships may cause a disruption in our ongoing business and distract our management.  further, we may be unable to realize the revenue improvements, cost savings and other intended benefits of any such transaction.  the occurrence of any of these events could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. the decline in direct mail business -- which could be negatively affected by rising postal costs, uncertainty regarding the future of the united states postal service, the green movement, and the on-going shift to alternative marketing channels -- could occur more rapidly than we are able to offset with new revenues from investments in new products and services, which could, in turn, negatively impact revenue, net income and profit margins.  postal rate increases are expected to continue to increase from time to time based on the rate of inflation.  the most recent increase in the u.s. was announced in october 2011 and became effective in 2012.  as postal costs continue to rise, we expect to see increased pressure on direct mailers to leverage digital and other forms of online communication and to mail fewer pieces.   17   the concerns of direct mailers are further exacerbated by the on-going financial struggles of the united states postal service (“usps”).  in recent years, the usps has incurred significant financial losses and may, as a result, implement significant changes to the breadth or frequency of its mail delivery.  the usps recently announced its plan to cut billions of dollars in operating costs by 2015 in hopes of returning to profitability.  the proposed cuts include, among other things, closing approximately half of its mail processing centers across the united states.  these changes are expected to increase mail processing time and slow delivery frequency, which in turn may decrease marketers and the general public’s willingness to continue to use traditional mail, which may negatively impact our direct mail customers and thus the company’s revenue derived from our traditional direct marketing business. additionally, those in the traditional direct mail business, as well as the usps, are under growing pressure to reduce their impact on the environment.  it is uncertain at this time what either marketers or the usps will do to lessen their impact.  from a postal service perspective, the actions to be taken may involve changing certain aspects of mail service that would negatively affect direct marketers.  from a marketer’s perspective, such actions could have the same effect as increased rates, thereby causing them to mail fewer pieces, which may negatively impact the company’s revenue derived from our traditional direct marketing business.  industry consolidations may increase competition for our products and services, which could negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. we primarily compete against numerous providers of a single service or product in several separate markets.  (see the discussion above under “competition.”)  since we offer a larger variety of products and services than most of our competitors, we have been able to successfully compete against them in most instances.  however, the dynamics of the marketplace would be significantly altered if several of these providers were to combine with each other to offer a wider variety of products and services that more directly compete with our portfolio of products and services. if our competitors were to combine forces to create a single-source provider of multiple products and services to the markets in which we compete, we could experience increased price competition, lower demand for our products and services, and loss of market share, each of which could negatively affect our operating results. processing errors or delays in completing service level requirements could result in loss of client confidence, harm to our reputation and negative financial consequences. processing errors, or significant errors and defects in our products, can be harmful to our business and result in increases in operating costs.  such errors may result in the issuance of credits to clients, re-performance of work, payment of damages, future rejection of our products and services by current and prospective customers and irreparable harm to our reputation.  likewise, the failure to meet contractual service level requirements or to meet specified goals within contractual timeframes could result in monetary penalties or lost revenue.  taken together, these issues could result in loss of revenue and decreases in profit margins as service and support costs increase. engagements with certain clients, particularly those with long-term, fixed price agreements, may prove to be more costly than anticipated, thereby adversely impacting future operating results. the pricing and other terms of our client contracts, particularly our long-term it outsourcing agreements, are based on estimates and assumptions we make at the time we enter into these contracts.  these estimates reflect our best judgments regarding the nature of the engagement and our expected costs to provide the contracted services and could differ from actual results.  any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse effect on our profit margin.  our exposure to this risk increases generally in proportion to the scope of the client contract and is higher in the early stages of such a contract.  in addition, a majority of our it outsourcing contracts contain some fixed-price, incentive-based or other pricing terms that condition our fee on our ability to meet defined goals.  our failure to meet a client's expectations in any type of contract may result in an unprofitable engagement which could adversely affect our operating results.   18   failure to recover significant, up-front capital investments required by certain client contracts could be harmful to the company’s financial condition and operating results. certain of our client contracts require significant investment in the early stages, which we expect to recover through billings over the life of the contract.  these contracts may involve the construction of new computer systems and communications networks or the development and deployment of new technologies.  substantial performance risk exists in each contract with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these contracts are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction and deployment phases.  failure to successfully meet our contractual requirements under these contracts over their life increases the possibility that we may not recover our capital investments in these contracts.  failure to recover our capital investments could be detrimental to the profitability of the particular engagement as well as the company’s operating results.     item 1b.  unresolved