item 1a. risk factors worldwide economic conditions and credit tightening could have a material adverse impact on our business. our business may be adversely impacted by changes in united states or global economic conditions, including inflation, deflation, interest rates, availability of capital, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs, and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. volatility in financial markets and the deterioration of national and global economic conditions could materially adversely impact our operations, financial results and/or liquidity including as follows:     •   the financial stability of our customers or suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for us or non-performance by suppliers;     •   one or more of the financial institutions syndicated under our senior secured credit facility may cease to be able to fulfill their funding obligations, which could adversely impact our liquidity;     •   it may become more costly or difficult to obtain financing or refinance our debt in the future;     •   the value of our assets held in pension plans may decline; and/or     •   our assets may be impaired or subject to write down or write off. uncertainty about global economic conditions may cause consumers of our products to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values. this could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. a deterioration of economic conditions would likely exacerbate these adverse effects and could result in a wide-ranging and prolonged impact on general business conditions, thereby negatively impacting our operations, financial results and/or liquidity. our business is dependent on construction activity. downturns in construction activity could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our businesses have greater sales opportunities when construction activity is strong and, conversely, have fewer opportunities when such activity declines. the cyclical nature of commercial and residential construction activity tends to be influenced by prevailing economic conditions, including favorable interest rates, strong government spending, consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control. prolonged downturns in construction activity could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, and the carrying value of assets. our indebtedness may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, make payments on our indebtedness and declare dividends on our capital stock. our level of indebtedness and degree of leverage could:     •   make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;     •   make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;     •   limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;     •   place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and therefore more able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting;   10   •   limit our ability to refinance existing indebtedness or borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes;     •   restrict our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock; and     •   adversely affect our credit ratings. we may also incur additional indebtedness, which could exacerbate the risks described above. in addition, to the extent that our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates, our sensitivity to interest rate fluctuations will increase. any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the agreements that govern our indebtedness contain a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. the agreements that govern our indebtedness include covenants that, among other things, may restrict our ability to:     •   incur additional debt;     •   pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt or make certain other restricted payments;     •   make certain acquisitions;     •   sell certain assets;     •   consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and     •   create liens on certain assets to secure debt. under the terms of our senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain a specified leverage ratio. our ability to meet such ratio could be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that we will meet such ratio. a breach of any of the restrictive covenants or leverage ratio would result in a default under the senior secured credit facility. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility may be able to elect to declare all outstanding borrowings under such facilities, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, or enforce their security interest, any of which would result in an event of default under the notes. the lenders may also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. we require a significant amount of liquidity to fund our operations, and borrowing has increased our vulnerability to negative unforeseen events. our liquidity needs vary throughout the year. if our business experiences materially negative unforeseen events, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our needs, maintain sufficient liquidity to operate and remain in compliance with our debt covenants, which could result in reduced or delayed planned capital expenditures and other investments and adversely affect our future revenue prospects.   11 if the availability of raw materials or energy decreases, or the costs increase, and we are unable to pass along increased costs, our operating results could be adversely affected. the cost and availability of raw materials, packaging materials, energy and sourced products are critical to our operations. for example, we use substantial quantities of natural gas, petroleum-based raw materials, hardwood lumber and mineral fiber in our manufacturing operations. the cost of some of these items has been volatile in recent years and availability has been limited at times. we source some materials from a limited number of suppliers, which, among other things, increases the risk of unavailability. limited availability could cause us to reformulate products or limit our production. decreased access to raw materials and energy or significant increased production cost differentials and any corresponding inability to pass along such costs through price increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. our markets are highly competitive. competition can reduce demand for our products or cause us to lower prices. failure to compete effectively by meeting consumer preferences and maintaining market share would adversely affect our results. our customers consider our products’ performance, product styling, customer service and price when deciding whether to purchase our products. shifting consumer preference in our highly competitive markets, from residential vinyl products to other flooring products, for example, styling preferences or inability to offer new competitive performance features could have an adverse effect on our sales. in addition, excess industry capacity exists for certain products in several geographic markets, which tends to increase price competition, as does competition from overseas competitors with lower cost structures. sales fluctuations to key customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profits. some of our businesses are dependent on a few key customers. the loss of sales to one of these major customers, or any adverse change in our business relationship with any one of them, could have an adverse affect on both our revenues and profits. our plant construction projects may adversely impact our results. we are in various stages of building new manufacturing plants. there can be no assurance that the actual cost of these facilities will not exceed our projections. in addition, we may experience delays in the construction of these facilities for many reasons, including unavailability of materials, labor or equipment, regulatory matters or inclement weather. economic and competitive advantages expected from these projects may not materialize as a result of delays, cost overruns or changes in market conditions. we are subject to risks associated with our international operations in both established and emerging markets. legislative, political, regulatory and economic volatility, as well as vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions, could have an adverse effect on our business. a significant portion of our products move in international trade, particularly among the u.s., canada, europe and asia markets. approximately 30% of our 2011 revenues are from operations outside the u.s. our international trade is subject to currency exchange fluctuations, trade regulations, import duties, logistics costs, delays and other related risks. our international operations are also subject to variable tax rates, credit risks in emerging markets, political risks, uncertain legal systems, high costs in repatriating profits to the u.s. from some countries, and loss of sales to local competitors following currency devaluations in countries where we import products for sale. in addition, our international growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in certain emerging markets. however, some emerging markets have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than established markets. in many countries outside of the u.s., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act or similar   12 local anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. as we continue to expand our business globally, including in emerging markets, we may have difficulty anticipating and effectively managing these and other risks that our international operations may face, which may adversely impact our business outside the united states and our financial condition and results of operations. our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products or brands, which could adversely impact our business. we rely on our proprietary intellectual property, including numerous patents and registered trademarks, as well as our licensed intellectual property. we monitor and protect against activities that might infringe, dilute, or otherwise harm our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property and rely on the patent, trademark and other laws of the united states and other countries. however, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization. in addition, the laws of some non-united states jurisdictions, particularly those of certain emerging markets, provide less protection for our proprietary rights than the laws of the united states. to the extent we cannot protect our intellectual property, unauthorized use and misuse of our intellectual property could harm our competitive position and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our restructuring actions and lean initiatives may not achieve expected savings in our operating costs or improved operating results. we aggressively look for ways to make our operations more efficient and effective. we reduce, move and expand our plants and operations as needed. such actions involve substantial planning, often require capital investments and may result in charges for fixed asset impairments or obsolescence and substantial severance costs. we are committed to augmenting margin expansion through further cost elimination. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our desired level of cost savings. even if we achieve our targeted savings, there is no assurance that our net operating results in the future will improve by this amount. planning and executing delays or challenges could adversely affect our customer service and result in unplanned costs. adverse judgments in regulatory actions, product claims, environmental claims and other litigation could be costly. insurance coverage may not be available or adequate in all circumstances. while we strive to ensure that our products comply with applicable government regulatory standards and internal requirements, and that our products perform effectively and safely, customers from time to time could claim that our products do not meet warranty or contractual requirements, and users could claim to be harmed by use or misuse of our products. these claims could give rise to breach of contract, warranty or recall claims, or claims for negligence, product liability, strict liability, personal injury or property damage. they could also result in negative publicity that could harm our sales and operating results. the building materials industry has been subject to claims relating to silicates, mold, pcbs, pvc, formaldehyde, toxic fumes, fire-retardant properties and other issues, as well as for incidents of catastrophic loss, such as building fires. product liability insurance coverage may not be available or adequate in all circumstances to cover these claims. we are parties to several legal proceedings involving environmental matters (see note 30 to the consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k), and we have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations. it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future. we are also subject to regulatory requirements regarding protection of the environment. current and future environmental laws and regulations, including those proposed concerning climate change, could   13 increase our cost of compliance, cost of energy, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, claims and investigations may arise related to patent infringement, environmental matters, distributor relationships, commercial contracts, antitrust or competition law requirements, employment and employee benefits issues, and other compliance and regulatory matters. while we have processes and policies designed to mitigate these risks and to investigate and address such claims as they arise, we cannot predict or, in some cases, control the costs to defend or resolve such claims. increased costs of labor, labor disputes, work stoppages or union organizing activity could delay or impede production and reduce sales and profits. increased costs of u.s. and international labor, including the costs of employee benefits plans, could affect our financial results and operations. as the majority of our manufacturing employees are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, there are also costs attributable to our periodic renegotiation of those agreements. throughout 2011, we renegotiated collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 1,500 employees at six plants. during the second half of 2012, collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 500 employees at two plants are scheduled to expire. we are also subject to the risk that strikes or other types of conflicts with organized personnel may arise or that we may become the subject of union organizing activity at our facilities that do not have union representation. prolonged negotiations, conflicts or related activities could lead to increased costs and work stoppages, which could adversely affect production, revenues, profits and customer relations. our principal shareholders could significantly influence our business and our affairs. the armstrong world industries, inc. asbestos personal injury settlement trust (“asbestos pi trust”), formed in 2006 as part of awi’s emergence from bankruptcy, and armor tpg holdings llc (“tpg”) together hold more than 60% of our outstanding shares and have entered into a shareholders’ agreement pursuant to which the asbestos pi trust and tpg have agreed to vote their shares together on certain matters. such a large percentage of ownership could result in below average equity market liquidity and affect matters that require approval by our shareholders. we are outsourcing our information technology infrastructure and certain finance and accounting functions, which will make us more dependent upon third parties. in an effort to make our it, finance and accounting functions more efficient, increase related capabilities, as well as generate cost savings, we began to outsource a significant portion of our it infrastructure and certain finance and accounting functions to separate third party service providers during the fourth quarter of 2011. as a result, we rely on third parties to ensure that our related needs are sufficiently met. this reliance subjects us to risks arising from the loss of control over certain processes, changes in pricing that may affect our operating results, and potentially, termination of provisions of these services by our supplier. a failure of our service providers to perform may have a significant adverse effect on our business. item 1b. unresolved