item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k, for information regarding the possible effects that compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have on our businesses and operating results. website we maintain a website at http://www.armstrong.com. information contained on our website is not incorporated into this document. reference in this form 10-k to our website is an inactive text reference only. annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, all amendments to those reports and other information about us are available free of charge through this website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with the sec. these materials are also available from the sec’s website at www.sec.gov.   10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors worldwide economic conditions and credit tightening could have a material adverse impact on our business. our business may be adversely impacted by changes in united states or global economic conditions, including inflation, deflation, interest rates, availability of capital, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs, and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. volatility in financial markets and the deterioration of national and global economic conditions could materially adversely impact our operations, financial results and/or liquidity including as follows:     • the financial stability of our customers or suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for us or non-performance by suppliers;     • one or more of the lenders under our senior secured credit facility may cease to be able to fulfill their funding obligations, which could adversely impact our liquidity;     • it may become more costly or difficult to obtain financing or refinance our debt in the future;     • the value of our assets held in pension plans may decline; and/or     • our assets may be impaired or subject to write down or write off. uncertainty about global economic conditions may cause commercial and residential consumers of our products to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values. this could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. a deterioration of economic conditions would likely exacerbate and prolong these adverse effects. our business is dependent on construction activity. downturns in construction activity could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our businesses have greater sales opportunities when construction activity is strong and, conversely, have fewer opportunities when such activity declines. the cyclical nature of commercial and residential construction activity, including construction activity funded by the public sector, tends to be influenced by prevailing economic conditions, including favorable interest rates, strong government spending, consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control. prolonged downturns in construction activity could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, and the carrying value of assets. our indebtedness may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, make payments on our indebtedness and declare dividends on our capital stock. our level of indebtedness and degree of leverage could:     • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;     • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;     • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;     • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and therefore more able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting;   11 table of contents   • limit our ability to refinance existing indebtedness or borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes;     • restrict our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock; and     • adversely affect our credit ratings. we may also incur additional indebtedness, which could exacerbate the risks described above. in addition, to the extent that our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates, our sensitivity to interest rate fluctuations will increase. any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the agreements that govern our indebtedness contain a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. the agreements that govern our indebtedness include covenants that, among other things, may restrict our ability to:     • incur additional debt;     • pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt or make certain other restricted payments;     • make certain acquisitions;     • sell certain assets;     • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and     • create liens on certain assets to secure debt. under the terms of our senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain specified leverage and interest coverage ratios. our ability to meet such ratios could be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that we will meet such ratios. a breach of any of the restrictive covenants or leverage ratio would result in a default under the senior secured credit facility. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility may be able to elect to declare all outstanding borrowings under such facilities, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, or enforce their security interest, any of which would result in an event of default under the notes. the lenders may also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. we require a significant amount of liquidity to fund our operations, and borrowing has increased our vulnerability to negative unforeseen events. our liquidity needs vary throughout the year. if our business experiences materially negative unforeseen events, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our needs or maintain sufficient liquidity to operate and remain in compliance with our debt covenants, which could result in reduced or delayed planned capital expenditures and other investments and adversely affect our future revenue prospects.   12 table of contents if the availability of raw materials or energy decreases, or the costs increase, and we are unable to pass along increased costs, our operating results could be adversely affected. the cost and availability of raw materials, packaging materials, energy and sourced products are critical to our operations. for example, we use substantial quantities of natural gas, petroleum-based raw materials, and hardwood lumber in our manufacturing operations. the cost of some of these items has been volatile in recent years and availability has been limited at times. we source some materials from a limited number of suppliers, which, among other things, increases the risk of unavailability. limited availability could cause us to reformulate products or limit our production. decreased access to raw materials and energy or significant increased production cost differentials and any corresponding inability to pass along such costs through price increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. our markets are highly competitive. competition can reduce demand for our products or cause us to lower prices. failure to compete effectively by meeting consumer preferences and maintaining market share would adversely affect our results. our customers consider our products’ performance, product styling, customer service and price when deciding whether to purchase our products. shifting consumer preference in our highly competitive markets, from residential vinyl products to other flooring products, for example, styling preferences or inability to offer new competitive performance features could have an adverse effect on our sales. in addition, excess industry capacity exists for certain products in several geographic markets, which tends to increase price competition, as does competition from overseas competitors with lower cost structures. sales fluctuations to key customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profits. some of our businesses are dependent on a few key customers. the loss of sales to one of these major customers, or any adverse change in our business relationship with any one of them, could have an adverse affect on both our revenues and profits. our plant construction projects may adversely impact our results. we are in various stages of building new manufacturing plants. there can be no assurance that the actual cost of these facilities will not exceed our projections. in addition, we may experience delays in the construction of these facilities for many reasons, including unavailability of materials, labor or equipment, regulatory matters or inclement weather. economic and competitive advantages expected from these projects may not fully materialize as a result of delays, cost overruns or changes in market conditions. adverse judgments in regulatory actions, product claims, environmental claims and other litigation could be costly. insurance coverage may not be available or adequate in all circumstances. while we strive to ensure that our products comply with applicable government regulatory standards and internal requirements, and that our products perform effectively and safely, customers from time to time could claim that our products do not meet warranty or contractual requirements, and users could claim to be harmed by use or misuse of our products. these claims could give rise to breach of contract, warranty or recall claims, or claims for negligence, product liability, strict liability, personal injury or property damage. they could also result in negative publicity that could harm our sales and operating results. the building materials industry has been subject to claims relating to raw materials such as silicates, pcbs, pvc, formaldehyde, fire-retardants and claims relating to other issues such as mold and toxic fumes, as well as claims for incidents of catastrophic loss, such as building fires. we have not received any significant claims involving our raw materials or our product performance, however, product liability insurance coverage may not be available or adequate in all circumstances to cover any such claims that may arise in the future.   13 table of contents we are parties to several legal proceedings involving environmental matters (see note 31 to the consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k), and we have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs necessary to comply with environmental laws and regulations. it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future. we are also subject to regulatory requirements regarding protection of the environment. current and future environmental laws and regulations, including those proposed concerning climate change, could increase our cost of compliance, cost of energy, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, claims and investigations may arise related to patent infringement, distributor relationships, commercial contracts, antitrust or competition law requirements, employment and employee benefits issues, and other compliance and regulatory matters. while we have processes and policies designed to mitigate these risks and to investigate and address such claims as they arise, we cannot predict or, in some cases, control the costs to defend or resolve such claims. income taxes can have an unanticipated effect on our financial results. our business is subject to income taxes in the united states and many foreign jurisdictions. because our income tax expense for any period depends heavily on the mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions, our income tax expense and reported net income may fluctuate significantly, and may be materially different than forecasted or experienced in the past. moreover, changes in, or interpretations of, tax laws and regulations (including laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings), could also have a significant adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. under provision of the internal revenue code, the utilization of a u.s. corporation’s deferred tax assets may be limited following a change in ownership, as defined in the internal revenue code. there have been no ownership changes as defined in the internal revenue code subsequent to our bankruptcy emergence. future ownership changes could have an impact on our ability to utilize the deferred tax assets. our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products or brands, which could adversely impact our business. we rely on our proprietary intellectual property, including numerous patents and registered trademarks, as well as our licensed intellectual property. we monitor and protect against activities that might infringe, dilute, or otherwise harm our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property and rely on the patent, trademark and other laws of the united states and other countries. however, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization. in addition, the laws of some non-united states jurisdictions, particularly those of certain emerging markets, provide less protection for our proprietary rights than the laws of the united states. to the extent we cannot protect our intellectual property, unauthorized use and misuse of our intellectual property could harm our competitive position and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may pursue strategic transactions that could create risks and present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. we have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, potential strategic transactions from time to time as those opportunities arise. we routinely engage in discussions with third parties regarding potential acquisitions that could be significant. any such strategic transactions involve a number of risks, including potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, difficulty with integrating personnel and operating infrastructure, and increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. strategic transactions could involve payment by us of a substantial amount of cash, incurrence of a substantial amount of debt or issuance of a substantial amount of equity. certain acquisition opportunities may not result in the consummation of a transaction or may fail to realize the intended   14 table of contents benefits and synergies. if we fail to consummate and integrate our acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our restructuring actions and lean initiatives may not achieve expected savings in our operating costs or improved operating results. we aggressively look for ways to make our operations more efficient and effective. we reduce, move and expand our plants and operations as needed. such actions involve substantial planning, often require capital investments and may result in charges for fixed asset impairments or obsolescence and substantial severance costs. we are committed to augmenting margin expansion through further productivity enhancements and cost elimination. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our desired level of profit improvement. even if we achieve our targeted goals, there is no assurance that our net operating results in the future will improve by the desired amount. planning and executing delays or challenges could adversely affect our customer service and result in unplanned costs. we are subject to risks associated with our international operations in both established and emerging markets. legislative, political, regulatory and economic volatility, as well as vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions, could have an adverse effect on our business. a significant portion of our products move in international trade, particularly among the u.s., canada, europe and asia markets. approximately 30% of our revenues were from operations outside the u.s. and canada in 2012 (see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k). our international trade is subject to currency exchange fluctuations, trade regulations, import duties, logistics costs, delays and other related risks. our international operations are also subject to variable tax rates, credit risks in emerging markets, political risks, uncertain legal systems, high costs in repatriating profits to the u.s. from some countries, and loss of sales to local competitors following currency devaluations in countries where we import products for sale. in addition, our international growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in certain emerging markets. however, some emerging markets have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than established markets. in many countries outside of the u.s., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act or similar local anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. as we continue to expand our business globally, including in emerging markets, we may have difficulty anticipating and effectively managing these and other risks that our international operations may face, which may adversely impact our business outside the united states and our financial condition and results of operations. increased costs of labor, labor disputes, work stoppages or union organizing activity could delay or impede production and reduce sales and profits. increased costs of u.s. and international labor, including the costs of employee benefits plans, could adversely affect our financial results and operations. as the majority of our manufacturing employees are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, there are also costs attributable to our periodic renegotiation of those agreements. we are also subject to the risk that strikes or other types of conflicts with organized personnel may arise or that we may become the subject of union organizing activity at our facilities that do not have union representation. prolonged negotiations, conflicts or related activities could lead to increased costs and work stoppages, which could adversely affect production, revenues, profits and customer relations.   15 table of contents we outsource our information technology infrastructure and certain finance and accounting functions, which makes us more dependent upon third parties. in an effort to make our it, finance and accounting functions more efficient, increase related capabilities, as well as generate cost savings, we outsource a significant portion of our it infrastructure and certain finance and accounting functions to separate third party service providers. as a result, we rely on third parties to ensure that our related needs are sufficiently met. this reliance subjects us to risks arising from the loss of control over certain processes, changes in pricing that may affect our operating results, and potentially, termination of provisions of these services by our suppliers. a failure of our service providers to perform may have a significant adverse effect on our business. concentration of ownership among our principal shareholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. the asbestos pi trust and tpg together own a majority of our common shares. pursuant to a shareholders’ agreement entered into by the asbestos pi trust and tpg, as amended effective as of november 5, 2012, the asbestos pi trust and tpg have agreed to vote their shares together on certain matters, including the nomination and election of twelve directors to our board of directors. of the twelve directors, the asbestos pi trust has the right to designate two directors and tpg also has the right, subject to certain share ownership thresholds, to designate two directors. furthermore, the asbestos pi trust and tpg together are able to exercise influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions and amendment of our amended and restated articles of incorporation, or the articles, and amended bylaws, or the bylaws, and have significant control over our management and policies. the interests of these shareholders may not be consistent with the interests of other shareholders. the existence of significant shareholders may also have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management or limiting the ability of our other shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of our company. in addition, our articles provide that subchapter 25f of the business corporation law of 1998 of the commonwealth of pennsylvania, or pbcl, which relate to business combinations with interested shareholders, does not apply to us. anti-takeover provisions of our organizational documents could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. certain provisions of our articles and bylaws may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. a change of control could be proposed in the form of a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common shares. in addition, these provisions could make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. for example, our articles and bylaws:     • permit special meetings of shareholders to be called only by shareholders holding at least 20% of voting shares;     • establish advance notice procedures with respect to shareholder proposals and the nomination of candidates for election of directors, other than nominations made by, or at the direction of, our board of directors or by asbestos pi trust;     • do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors;     • require affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of at least 80% of our common shares to amend, alter or repeal certain provisions of our articles regarding the number, terms of office and removal of directors, special meetings of shareholders, shareholder action by written consent and the rights of asbestos pi trust under the articles;   16 table of contents   • until no shareholder beneficially owns at least 20% of our common shares, require the affirmative vote of at least 80% of shareholders for changes to certain provisions of the bylaws, including provisions concerning director independence, shareholder voting at special meetings and action by written consent, board size and appointments to our nominating and governance committee; and     • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred shares, or “blank check” preferred shares, by our board of directors without shareholder approval. the existence of these provisions and other provisions of our organizational documents could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common shares. they could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that shareholders could receive a premium for their common shares in any acquisition. item 1b. unresolved