item 1a. risk factors global economic conditions our business is influenced by conditions in domestic and foreign economies, including inflation, deflation, interest rates, availability and cost of capital, consumer spending rates, energy availability and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. volatility in financial markets and the continued softness or further deterioration of national and global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations, including as follows:     •   the financial stability of our customers or suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for us or non-performance by suppliers;     •   commercial and residential consumers of our products may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or stagnation or further declines in income or asset values, which could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our product;     •   the net asset value of the investment funds underlying our defined benefit pension plans may decline, which could result in negative plan investment performance and additional charges which may involve significant cash contributions to such plans, to meet obligations or regulatory requirements;     •   our asset impairment assessments and underlying valuation assumptions may change, which could result from changes to estimates of future sales and cash flows that may lead to substantial impairment charges. continued or sustained deterioration of economic conditions would likely exacerbate and prolong these adverse effects. construction activity our businesses have greater sales opportunities when construction activity is strong and, conversely, have fewer opportunities when such activity declines. the cyclical nature of commercial and residential construction activity, including construction activity funded by the public sector, tends to be influenced by prevailing economic conditions, including the rate of growth in gross domestic product, prevailing interest rates, government spending patterns, business, investor and consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control. prolonged downturns in construction activity could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. raw materials the availability and cost of raw materials, packaging materials, energy and sourced products are critical to our operations. for example, we use substantial quantities of natural gas, petroleum-based raw materials and hardwood lumber in our manufacturing operations. the cost of some of these items has been volatile in recent years and availability has been limited at times. we source some materials from a limited number of suppliers, which, among other things, increases the risk of unavailability. limited availability could cause us to reformulate products or limit our production. decreased access to raw materials and energy or significant increased cost to purchase these items and any corresponding inability to pass along such costs through price increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. liquidity our liquidity needs vary throughout the year. if our business experiences materially negative unforeseen events, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our needs or maintain sufficient liquidity to operate and remain in compliance with our debt covenants, which could result in reduced or delayed planned capital expenditures and other investments and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.   11 table of contents debt covenants the agreements that govern our indebtedness include covenants that, among other things, may impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. these covenants may restrict our ability to:     •   incur additional debt;     •   pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt or make certain other restricted payments;     •   make certain acquisitions;     •   sell certain assets;     •   consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and     •   create liens on certain assets to secure debt. under the terms of our senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain specified leverage and interest coverage ratios. our ability to meet these ratios could be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that we will meet them. a breach of any of the restrictive covenants or ratios would result in a default under the senior secured credit facility. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility may be able to elect to declare all outstanding borrowings under our facilities, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, or enforce their security interest. the lenders may also have the right in these circumstances to terminate commitments to provide further borrowings. indebtedness our level of indebtedness and degree of leverage could:     •   make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;     •   make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;     •   limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;     •   place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and, therefore, more able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting;     •   limit our ability to refinance existing indebtedness or borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes;     •   restrict our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock; and     •   adversely affect our credit ratings. we may also incur additional indebtedness, which could exacerbate the risks described above. in addition, to the extent that our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates, our sensitivity to interest rate fluctuations will increase. any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.   12 table of contents competition our markets are highly competitive. competition can reduce demand for our products, negatively affect our product sales mix or cause us to lower prices. failure to compete effectively by meeting consumer preferences and maintaining market share could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. our customers consider our products’ performance, product styling, customer service and price when deciding whether to purchase our products. shifting consumer preference in our highly competitive markets, from residential vinyl products to other flooring products, for example, whether for performance or styling preferences or our inability to develop and offer new competitive performance features could have an adverse effect on our sales. in addition, excess industry capacity exists for certain products in several geographic markets, which tends to increase price competition, as does competition from overseas competitors with lower cost structures. key customers some of our business lines and markets are dependent on a few key customers. the loss, reduction, or fluctuation of sales to one of these major customers, or any adverse change in our business relationship with any one of them, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. labor increased costs of u.s. and international labor, including the costs of employee benefits plans, labor disputes, work stoppages or union organizing activity could delay or impede production and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. as the majority of our manufacturing employees are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, we often incur costs attributable to periodic renegotiation of those agreements, which may be difficult to project. we are also subject to the risk that strikes or other conflicts with organized personnel may arise or that we may become the subject of union organizing activity at our facilities that do not currently have union representation. prolonged negotiations, conflicts or related activities could also lead to costly work stoppages and loss of productivity. plant construction projects we are building a new ceilings plant in russia, adding capacity to our lancaster, pa flooring plant to manufacture luxury vinyl tile in north america and increasing manufacturing capacity to produce metal ceilings in china. there can be no assurance that the actual cost of these projects will not exceed our projections. in addition, we may experience delays in these projects for many reasons, including unavailability of materials, labor or equipment, regulatory matters or inclement weather. economic and competitive advantages expected from these projects and from other recently completed plant construction projects may not fully materialize as a result of delays, cost overruns or changes in market conditions. wave joint venture our equity investment in our wave joint venture has been important to our financial results. we believe an important element in the success of this joint venture is the relationship with our partner, worthington industries. if there is a change in ownership, a change of control, a change in management or management philosophy, a change in business strategy or another event with respect to our partner that adversely impacts its relationship with us, wave’s performance could be adversely impacted. in addition, our partner may have economic or business interests or goals that are different from or inconsistent with our interests or goals, which may impact our ability to influence or align wave’s strategy and operations. environmental matters we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities for which our ultimate liability may exceed the currently estimated and accrued amounts. it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental matters and corresponding liabilities in the future. see note 30 to the consolidated financial statements for further information related to our environmental matters.   13 table of contents the building materials industry has been subject to claims relating to raw materials such as silicates, pcbs, pvc, formaldehyde, fire-retardants and claims relating to other issues such as mold and toxic fumes, as well as claims for incidents of catastrophic loss, such as building fires. we have not received any significant claims involving our raw materials or our product performance, however, product liability insurance coverage may not be available or adequate in all circumstances to cover claims that may arise in the future. in addition, our operations are subject to various domestic and foreign environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. deferred tax assets we have substantial deferred tax assets related to united states domestic foreign tax credits (“ftcs”) and state net operating losses (“nols”), which are available to reduce our u.s. income tax liability and to offset future state taxable income. however, our ability to utilize the current carrying value of these deferred tax assets may be impacted as a result of certain events, such as changes in tax legislation, insufficient future taxable income prior to expiration of the ftcs and nols, or annual limits imposed under section 382 of the internal revenue code, or by state law, as a result of an “ownership change.” the internal revenue code and some states impose limitations on a corporation’s ability to utilize tax attributes, including nols and ftcs if it experiences an ownership change. an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain shareholders by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. should we determine that it is likely that our recorded deferred tax assets are not realizable, we would be required to reduce the amounts reflected on our financial statements to the net realizable amount and recording a corresponding charge to current earnings. the corresponding charge to current earnings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations in the period in which it is recorded. strategic transactions we have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, potential strategic transactions as opportunities arise. we routinely engage in discussions with third parties regarding potential transactions, including joint ventures, which could be significant. any such strategic transaction involves a number of risks, including potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and business operations and infrastructure, and increasing or decreasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. strategic transactions could involve payment by us of a substantial amount of cash, assumption of liabilities and indemnification obligations, regulatory requirements, incurrence of a substantial amount of debt or issuance of a substantial amount of equity. certain strategic opportunities may not result in the consummation of a transaction or may fail to realize the intended benefits and synergies. if we fail to consummate and integrate our strategic transactions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition, liquidity or results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. negative tax consequences we are subject to the tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. the tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our operations and results is sometimes open to interpretation. because our income tax expense for any period depends heavily on the mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions, our income tax expense and reported net income may fluctuate significantly, and may be materially different than forecasted or experienced in the past. our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or tax liability could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of examinations of previously filed tax returns, and ongoing assessments of our tax exposures.   14 table of contents international operations a significant portion of our products move in international trade, with approximately 30% of our revenues from operations outside the u.s. and canada in 2013, see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. our international trade is subject to currency exchange fluctuations, trade regulations, import duties, logistics costs, delays and other related risks. our international operations are also subject to various tax rates, credit risks in emerging markets, political risks, uncertain legal systems, high costs in repatriating profits to the u.s. from some countries, and loss of sales to local competitors following currency devaluations in countries where we import products for sale. in addition, our international growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in certain emerging markets. however, some emerging markets have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than established markets. in addition, in many countries outside of the u.s., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act or similar local anti-corruption or anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws, as well as u.s. and foreign export and trading laws, could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. as we continue to expand our business globally, including in emerging markets, we may have difficulty anticipating and effectively managing these and other risks that our international operations may face, which may adversely affect our business outside the united states and our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. intellectual property rights we rely on our proprietary intellectual property, including numerous patents and registered trademarks, as well as our licensed intellectual property to market, promote and sell our products. we monitor and protect against activities that might infringe, dilute, or otherwise harm our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property and rely on the patent, trademark and other laws of the united states and other countries. however, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization. in addition, the laws of some non-united states jurisdictions, particularly those of certain emerging markets, provide less protection for our proprietary rights than the laws of the united states and present greater risks of counterfeiting and other infringement. to the extent we cannot protect our intellectual property, unauthorized use and misuse of our intellectual property could harm our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. outsourcing in an effort to make our finance, accounting and information technology, (“it”), functions more efficient, increase related capabilities, as well as generate cost savings, we outsource certain finance and accounting functions and a significant portion of our it infrastructure to separate third party service providers. as a result, we rely on third parties to ensure that our related needs are sufficiently met. this reliance subjects us to risks arising from the loss of control over certain processes, changes in pricing that may affect our operating results, and potentially, termination of provisions of these services by our suppliers. a failure of our service providers to perform may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operation. costs savings and productivity initiatives we aggressively look for ways to make our operations more efficient and effective. we reduce, move and expand our plants and operations as needed. such actions involve substantial planning, often require capital investments and may result in charges for fixed asset impairments or obsolescence and substantial severance costs. our ability to achieve cost savings and other benefits within expected time frames is subject to many estimates and assumptions. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.   15 table of contents claims and litigation in the ordinary course of business, we are subject to various claims and litigation. any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention and resources. while we strive to ensure that our products comply with applicable government regulatory standards and internal requirements, and that our products perform effectively and safely, customers from time to time could claim that our products do not meet warranty or contractual requirements, and users could claim to be harmed by use or misuse of our products. these claims could give rise to breach of contract, warranty or recall claims, or claims for negligence, product liability, strict liability, personal injury or property damage. they could also result in negative publicity. in addition, claims and investigations may arise related to patent infringement, distributor relationships, commercial contracts, antitrust or competition law requirements, employment matters, employee benefits issues, and other compliance and regulatory matters, including anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters. while we have processes and policies designed to mitigate these risks and to investigate and address such claims as they arise, we cannot predict or, in some cases, control the costs to defend or resolve such claims. we currently maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential claims. in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. in addition, the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. if any significant judgment or claim is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact. we cannot assure that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. concentration of ownership and voting control concentration of ownership and a voting agreement among two of our large shareholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. the asbestos pi trust and tpg together own a significant amount of our common shares. pursuant to a shareholders’ agreement entered into by the asbestos pi trust and tpg, as amended effective as of november 5, 2012, the asbestos pi trust and tpg have agreed to vote their shares together on certain matters, including the nomination and election of directors to our board of directors. also, pursuant to the terms of the shareholders’ agreement, each of the asbestos pi trust and tpg has the right to designate two directors. the provisions of the shareholders’ agreement may be amended, modified or waived by the asbestos pi trust and tpg without our consent. furthermore, the asbestos pi trust and tpg together are able to exercise influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions and amendment of our amended and restated articles of incorporation, or the articles, and amended bylaws, or the bylaws, and have significant influence over our management and policies. the interests of these shareholders may not be consistent with the interests of other shareholders. the existence of significant shareholders may also have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management or limiting the ability of our other shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of our company. in addition, our articles provide that subchapter 25f of the business corporation law of 1998 of the commonwealth of pennsylvania, or pbcl, which relate to business combinations with interested shareholders, does not apply to us. anti-takeover provisions certain provisions of our articles and bylaws may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. a change of control could be proposed in the form of a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common shares. in addition, these provisions could make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. for example, our articles and bylaws:     •   permit special meetings of shareholders to be called only by shareholders holding at least 20% of voting shares;   16 table of contents   •   establish advance notice procedures with respect to shareholder proposals and the nomination of candidates for election of directors, other than nominations made by, or at the direction of, our board of directors or by asbestos pi trust;     •   do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors;     •   require affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of at least 80% of our common shares to amend, alter or repeal certain provisions of our articles regarding the number, terms of office and removal of directors, special meetings of shareholders, shareholder action by written consent and the rights of asbestos pi trust under the articles;     •   until no shareholder beneficially owns at least 20% of our common shares, require the affirmative vote of at least 80% of shareholders for changes to certain provisions of the bylaws, including provisions concerning director independence, shareholder voting at special meetings and action by written consent, board size and appointments to our nominating and governance committee; and     •   authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred shares, or “blank check” preferred shares, by our board of directors without shareholder approval. the existence of these provisions and other provisions of our organizational documents could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common shares. they could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that shareholders could receive a premium for their common shares in any acquisition. item 1b. unresolved