item 1a.   risk factors as noted in the introductory section titled “uncertainties affecting forward-looking statements,” our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. these risks should be taken into account in evaluating any investment decision involving awi. it is not possible to predict or identify all factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. the following discussion is a summary of what we believe to be our most significant risk factors. these and other factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements made in this report. we try to reduce both the likelihood that these risks will affect our businesses and their potential impact. however, no matter how accurate our foresight, how well we evaluate risks, and how effective we are at mitigating them, it is still possible that one of these risks or some other risks we have not identified could have serious consequences for us, and could cause a material adverse effect on our business. see related discussions in this document and our other sec filings and our other public documents for more details and subsequent disclosures. our november 23, 2010 refinancing, which was part of a leveraged recapitalization plan, resulted in a substantial amount of indebtedness which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, comply with debt covenants, make payments on our indebtedness and declare dividends on our capital stock. the refinancing is described in more detail in the financial condition and liquidity section of management’s discussion and analysis (“md&a”). this indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could:   •   make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness;   •   make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;   •   limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;   •   place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and therefore more able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting;   •   limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes;   •   restrict our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock; and   •   adversely affect our credit ratings. any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. to the extent that the indebtedness bears interest at floating rates, our sensitivity to interest rate fluctuations will increase.   10 table of contents the agreements that govern the indebtedness contain a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. the agreements that govern the new indebtedness include covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to:   •   incur additional debt;   •   pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our or our restricted subsidiaries’ capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our or our restricted subsidiaries’ capital stock or subordinated debt or make certain other restricted payments;   •   sell certain assets;   •   consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and   •   create liens on certain assets to secure debt. under the terms of our senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain a specified leverage ratio. our ability to meet such ratio could be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that we will meet such ratio. a breach of any of the restrictive covenants or leverage ratio would result in a default under the senior secured credit facility. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility may be able to elect to declare all outstanding borrowings under such facilities, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, or enforce their security interest, any of which would result in an event of default under the notes. the lenders may also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition to increased indebtedness levels due to the refinancing, we still may be able to incur substantially more debt. this could further exacerbate the risks associated with additional leverage. even though we completed the refinancing and incurred the indebtedness described in these risk factors and in the financial condition and liquidity section of md&a, we still may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. although the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and any indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. if new debt is added to our existing debt levels, the related risks that we face would be increased. our business is dependent on construction activity. downturns in construction activity and global economic conditions, such as weak consumer confidence and weak credit markets, adversely affect our business and our profitability. our businesses have greater sales opportunities when construction activity is strong and, conversely, have fewer opportunities when such activity declines. commercial and residential construction activity tends to increase when economies are strong, interest rates are favorable, government spending is strong, and consumers are confident. however, the commercial and residential construction cycles do not always move in tandem. when the economy is weak and access to credit is limited, customers, distributors and suppliers are at heightened risk of defaulting on their obligations. since most of our sales are in the u.s., its economy is the most important for our business, but conditions in europe, canada and asia also are significant. a prolonged economic downturn would exacerbate the adverse effect on our business, profitability, and the carrying value of assets.   11 table of contents we require a significant amount of liquidity to fund our operations, and borrowing has increased our vulnerability to negative unforeseen events. our liquidity needs vary throughout the year. there are no significant debt maturities until 2015 and 2017 under our existing credit facility. while our recapitalization increased our indebtedness, we believe cash on hand, revolving credit facility capacity and cash generated from operations will be adequate to address our foreseeable liquidity needs. in connection with the recapitalization described above, standard & poor’s and moody’s have lowered their credit ratings on awi to bb- (negative) and b1, respectively; these downgrades may make future borrowings more difficult or more expensive. if our business experiences materially negative unforeseen events, we cannot assure we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our needs, maintain sufficient liquidity to operate and remain in compliance with our debt covenants. if the availability of raw materials and energy decreases, or the costs increase, and we are unable to pass along increased costs, our operating results could be adversely affected. the cost and availability of raw materials, packaging materials, energy and sourced products are critical to our operations. for example, we use substantial quantities of natural gas, petroleum-based raw materials, hardwood lumber and mineral fiber in our manufacturing operations. the cost of some of these items has been volatile in recent years and availability sometimes has been tight. we source some materials from a limited number of suppliers, which, among other things, increases the risk of unavailability. limited availability could cause us to reformulate products or limit our production. the impact of increased costs is greatest where our ability to pass along increased costs through price increases on our products is limited, whether due to competitive pressures or other factors. labor disputes or work stoppages could hurt production and reduce sales and profits. most of our manufacturing employees are represented by unions and are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements that must be periodically renegotiated. throughout 2011, collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 1,500 employees at six plants are scheduled to expire. we anticipate that we will reach new contracts as current contracts expire. failure to reach new contracts could lead to work stoppages, which could hurt production, revenues, profits and customer relations. our markets are highly competitive. competition can reduce demand for our products or cause us to lower prices. failure to compete effectively by meeting consumer preferences maintaining market share would adversely affect our results. our customers consider our products’ performance, product styling, customer service and price when deciding whether to purchase our products. shifting consumer preference in our highly competitive markets, e.g. from residential vinyl products to other flooring products, styling preferences or inability to offer new competitive performance features could hurt our sales. for certain products there is excess industry capacity in several geographic markets, which tends to increase price competition, as does competition from overseas competitors with lower cost structures. reduction in sales to key customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profits. some of our businesses are dependent on a few key customers, such as the home depot, inc. and lowe’s companies, inc. the loss of sales to one of these major customers, or changes in our business relationship with them, could adversely affect both our revenues and profits.   12 table of contents changes in the political, regulatory and business environments of our international markets, including changes in duty rates, trade regulations, and currency exchange fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our business. a significant portion of our products move in international trade, particularly among the u.s., canada, europe and asia. also, approximately 30% of our annual revenues are from operations outside the u.s. our international trade is subject to currency exchange fluctuations, trade regulations, import duties, logistics costs, delays and other related risks. our international operations are also subject to variable tax rates, credit risks in emerging markets, political risks, uncertain legal systems, potential restrictions on repatriating profits to the u.s., and loss of sales to local competitors following currency devaluations in countries where we import products for sale. our restructuring actions and lean initiatives may not achieve expected savings in our operating costs or improved operating results. we look for ways to make our operations more efficient and effective. we reduce, move and expand our plants and operations as needed. such actions involve substantial planning, often require capital investments and may result in charges for fixed asset impairments or obsolescence and substantial severance costs. we are committed to augmenting margin expansion through further cost elimination. in early 2010 we stated that, through the aggressive application of lean practices and projects to our manufacturing activities and to standardize, simplify and eliminate selling, general and administrative (“sg&a”) programs and policies, we are seeking to remove at least $150 million of manufacturing and sg&a costs by 2013; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve this level of cost savings. even if we achieve these targeted savings, there is no assurance that our net operating results in the future will improve by this amount. we can err in planning and executing our actions, which could hurt our customer service and lead to unplanned costs. adverse judgments in regulatory actions, product claims and other litigation could be costly. insurance coverage may not be available or adequate in all circumstances. while we strive to ensure that our products comply with applicable government regulatory standards and internal requirements, and that our products perform effectively and safely, customers from time to time could claim that our products do not meet contractual requirements, and users could claim to be harmed by use or misuse of our products. these claims could give rise to breach of contract, warranty or recall claims, or claims for negligence, product liability, strict liability, personal injury or property damage. the building materials industry has been subject to claims relating to silicates, mold, pcbs, pvc, formaldehyde, toxic fumes, fire-retardant properties and other issues, as well as for incidents of catastrophic loss, such as building fires. product liability insurance coverage may not be available or adequate in all circumstances to cover these claims. in addition, claims may arise related to patent infringement, environmental liabilities, distributor terminations, commercial contracts, antitrust or competition law, employment law and employee benefits issues, and other regulatory matters. while we have in place processes and policies to mitigate these risks and to investigate and address such claims as they arise, we cannot predict the costs to defend or resolve such claims. we are also subject to regulatory requirements regarding protection of the environment. current and future environmental laws and regulations, including those proposed concerning climate change, could increase our cost of compliance, cost of energy, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.   13 table of contents our principal shareholders could significantly influence our business and our affairs. the armstrong world industries, inc. asbestos personal injury settlement trust (“asbestos pi trust”), formed in 2006 as part of awi’s emergence from bankruptcy, and armor tpg holdings llc (“tpg”) together hold more than 60% of the company’s outstanding shares and have entered into a shareholders’ agreement pursuant to which the asbestos pi trust and tpg have agreed to vote their shares together on certain matters. such a large percentage of ownership could result in below average equity market liquidity and affect matters which require approval by our shareholders. item 1b.   unresolved