item 1a. risk factors.   the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial position and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this annual report on form 10-k. we (1) may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including earnings guidance and other ___________________________________________________ 1 this section uses the terms “we,” “our” and “us” when it is not necessary to distinguish among altria group, inc. and its various operating subsidiaries or when any distinction is clear from the context. 4 table of contents statements contained in filings with the sec, in reports to security holders and in press releases and investor webcasts. you can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as “strategy,” “expects,” “continues,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “will,” “estimates,” “forecasts,” “intends,” “projects,” “goals,” “objectives,” “guidance,” “targets” and other words of similar meaning. you can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in altria group, inc.’s securities. in connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. we elaborate on these and other risks we face throughout this document, particularly in the “business environment” sections preceding our discussion of operating results of our subsidiaries’ businesses in item 7. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this annual report on form 10-k (“item 7”). you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. we do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time except as required by applicable law. tobacco-related litigation   legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various united states and foreign jurisdictions against altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries, including pm usa and ust and its subsidiaries, as well as their respective indemnitees. various types of claims may be raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband-related claims, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors and distributors. litigation is subject to uncertainty and it is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending or future cases. an unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related or other litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. damages claimed in some tobacco-related or other litigation are significant and, in certain cases, range in the billions of dollars. the variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified   in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome. in certain cases, plaintiffs claim that defendants’ liability is joint and several. in such cases, altria group, inc. or its subsidiaries may face the risk that one or more co-defendants decline or otherwise fail to participate in the bonding required for an appeal or to pay their proportionate or jury-allocated share of a judgment.  as a result, altria group, inc. or its subsidiaries under certain circumstances may have to pay more than their proportionate share of any bonding- or judgment-related amounts. furthermore, in those cases where plaintiffs are successful, altria group, inc. or its subsidiaries may also be required to pay interest and attorneys’ fees. although pm usa has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases. this risk has been substantially reduced given that 45 states and puerto rico now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all. as discussed in note 18. contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 (“note 18”), tobacco litigation plaintiffs have challenged the constitutionality of florida’s bond cap statute in several cases and plaintiffs may challenge state bond cap statutes in other jurisdictions as well. such challenges may include the applicability of state bond caps in federal court. although we cannot predict the outcome of such challenges, it is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of altria group, inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome of one or more such challenges. in certain litigation, pm usa faces potentially significant non-monetary remedies. for example, in the lawsuit brought by the united states department of justice, discussed in note 18, the district court did not impose monetary penalties but ordered significant non-monetary remedies, including the issuance of “corrective statements” in various media. altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries have achieved substantial success in managing litigation. nevertheless, litigation is subject to uncertainty and significant challenges remain. it is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of altria group, inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. altria group, inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts. each of the companies has defended, and will continue to defend, vigorously against litigation challenges. however, altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of altria group, inc. to do so. see item 3. legal proceedings of this annual report on form 10-k (“item 3”), note 18 and exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this 5 table of contents annual report on form 10-k for a discussion of pending tobacco-related litigation. tobacco regulation and control action in the public and private sectors   our tobacco subsidiaries face significant governmental and private sector action, including efforts aimed at reducing the incidence of tobacco use, restricting marketing and advertising, imposing regulations on packaging, requiring warnings and disclosure of flavors or other ingredients, prohibiting the sale of tobacco products with certain characterizing flavors or other characteristics, requiring premarket authorization of certain tobacco products, limiting or prohibiting the sale of tobacco products by certain retail establishments and the sale of tobacco products in certain package sizes, and seeking to hold them responsible for the adverse health effects associated with both smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke. pm usa, usstc and other altria group, inc. subsidiaries are subject to regulation, and may become subject to additional regulation, by the fda, as discussed in detail in tobacco space - business environment - fsptca and fda regulation in item 7. we cannot predict how the fda will implement and enforce its statutory authority, including by promulgating additional regulations, taking other regulatory actions and pursuing possible investigatory or enforcement actions. governmental actions, combined with the diminishing social acceptance of smoking and private actions to restrict smoking, have resulted in reduced cigarette industry volume, and we expect that these factors will continue to reduce cigarette consumption levels. actions by the fda, other federal, state or local governments or agencies and private sector entities, such as those which impact the consumer acceptability of tobacco products, limit adult consumer choices, delay or prevent the launch of new or modified tobacco products, restrict communications to adult consumers, restrict the ability to differentiate tobacco products, create a competitive advantage or disadvantage for certain tobacco companies, impose additional manufacturing, labeling or packing requirements, require the recall or removal of tobacco products from the marketplace (including without limitation as a result of product contamination), interrupt manufacturing or otherwise significantly increase the cost of doing business, or restrict the use of specified tobacco products in certain locations or the sale of tobacco products by certain retail establishments, may have a material adverse impact on the business, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of altria group, inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries. excise taxes tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes, and significant increases in tobacco product-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the united states at the state, federal and local levels. tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of the tobacco products of our tobacco subsidiaries through lower consumption levels and the potential shift in adult consumer purchases from the premium to the non-   premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products. such shifts may have an adverse impact on the reported share performance of tobacco products of altria group, inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries. for further discussion, see tobacco space - business environment - excise taxes in item 7. increased competition in the united states tobacco categories each of altria group, inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries operates in highly competitive tobacco categories. settlements of certain tobacco litigation in the united states, among other factors, have resulted in substantial cigarette price increases. pm usa faces competition from lowest priced brands sold by certain united states and foreign manufacturers that have cost advantages because they are not parties to these settlements. these manufacturers may fail to comply with related state escrow legislation or may avoid escrow deposit obligations on the majority of their sales by concentrating on certain states where escrow deposits are not required or are required on fewer than all such manufacturers’ cigarettes sold in such states. additional competition has resulted from diversion into the united states market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the united states, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes, and imports of foreign lowest priced brands. usstc faces significant competition in the smokeless tobacco category and has experienced consumer down-trading to lower-priced brands. in the cigar category, additional competition has resulted from increased imports of machine-made large cigars manufactured offshore. new product technologies altria group, inc.’s subsidiaries continue to seek ways to develop and to commercialize new product technologies that may reduce the health risks associated with current tobacco products, while continuing to offer adult tobacco consumers (within and outside the united states) products that meet their taste expectations and evolving preferences. potential solutions include tobacco-containing and nicotine-containing products that reduce or eliminate exposure to cigarette smoke and/or constituents identified by public health authorities as harmful. these efforts may include arrangements with, or investments in, third parties. our subsidiaries may not succeed in their efforts. if they do not succeed, but one or more of their competitors does, our subsidiaries may be at a competitive disadvantage. further, we cannot predict whether regulators, including the fda, will permit the marketing or sale of such products with claims of reduced risk to consumers or whether consumers’ purchase decisions would be affected by such claims. nor can we predict whether regulators will impose an unduly burdensome regulatory framework on such products. any of these developments could adversely affect the commercial viability of any such new products. 6 table of contents adjacency growth strategy altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries have adjacency growth strategies involving moves and potential moves into complementary products or processes. we cannot guarantee that these strategies, or any products introduced in connection with these strategies, will be successful. for a related discussion, see new product technologies above. tobacco price, availability and quality any significant change in tobacco leaf prices, quality or availability could adversely affect our tobacco subsidiaries’ profitability and business. for a discussion of factors that influence leaf prices, availability and quality, see tobacco space - business environment - tobacco price, availability and quality in item 7. tobacco key facilities; supply security altria group, inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries face risks inherent in reliance on a few significant facilities and a small number of significant suppliers. a natural or man-made disaster or other disruption that affects the manufacturing operations of any of altria group, inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries or the operations of any significant suppliers of any of altria group, inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries could adversely impact the operations of the affected subsidiaries.  an extended disruption in operations experienced by one or more altria group, inc. subsidiaries or significant suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the business, the consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position of altria group, inc. attracting and retaining talent our ability to implement our strategy of attracting and retaining the best talent may be impaired by the impact of decreasing social acceptance of tobacco usage and tobacco regulation and control actions. the tobacco industry competes for talent with the consumer products industry and other companies that enjoy greater societal acceptance.  as a result, we may be unable to attract and retain the best talent. competition, evolving adult consumer preferences and economic conditions each of our tobacco and wine subsidiaries is subject to intense competition and changes in adult consumer preferences. to be successful, they must continue to: ▪promote brand equity successfully; ▪anticipate and respond to new and evolving adult consumer preferences; ▪develop, manufacture, market and distribute products that appeal to adult consumers (including, where appropriate, through arrangements with, or investments in, third parties); ▪improve productivity; and ▪protect or enhance margins through cost savings and price increases.   see tobacco space - business environment - summary in item 7 for additional discussion concerning evolving adult tobacco consumer preferences, including increased consumer awareness of, and expenditures on, electronic cigarettes. continued growth of this product category could further contribute to reductions in cigarette consumption levels and cigarette industry sales volume, and could adversely affect the growth rates of other tobacco products. the willingness of adult consumers to purchase premium consumer product brands depends in part on economic conditions, which can have a material adverse effect on the business, consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position of altria group, inc. in periods of economic uncertainty, adult consumers may purchase more discount brands and/or, in the case of tobacco products, consider lower-priced tobacco products. our tobacco and wine subsidiaries work to broaden their brand portfolios to compete effectively with lower-priced products. our financial services business (conducted through pmcc) holds investments in finance leases, principally in transportation (including aircraft), power generation and manufacturing equipment and facilities. its lessees are also subject to intense competition and economic conditions. if parties to pmcc’s leases fail to manage through difficult economic and competitive conditions, pmcc may have to increase its allowance for losses, which would adversely affect our earnings. acquisitions altria group, inc. from time to time considers acquisitions. from time to time, we may engage in confidential acquisition negotiations that are not publicly announced unless and until those negotiations result in a definitive agreement. although we seek to maintain or improve our credit ratings over time, it is possible that completing a given acquisition or other event could impact our credit ratings or the outlook for those ratings. furthermore, acquisition opportunities are limited, and acquisitions present risks of failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings. there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms, that we will realize any of the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or that acquisitions will be quickly accretive to earnings. capital markets access to the capital markets is important for us to satisfy our liquidity and financing needs. disruption and uncertainty in the capital markets and any resulting tightening of credit availability, pricing and/or credit terms may negatively affect the amount of credit available to us and may also increase our costs and adversely affect our earnings or our dividend rate. exchange rates for purposes of financial reporting, the earnings of sabmiller are translated into u.s. dollars from various local currencies based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting 7 table of contents period. during times of a strengthening u.s. dollar against these currencies, our reported equity earnings in sabmiller will be reduced because the local currencies will translate into fewer u.s. dollars. asset impairment we periodically calculate the fair value of our goodwill and other intangible assets to test for impairment. this calculation may be affected by several factors, including general economic conditions, regulatory developments, changes in category growth rates as a result of changing adult consumer preferences, success of planned new product introductions, competitive activity and tobacco-related taxes. if an impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which will reduce our earnings. wine - competition; grape supply; regulation and excise taxes ste. michelle’s business is subject to significant competition, including from many large, well-established domestic and international companies.  the adequacy of ste. michelle’s grape supply is influenced by consumer demand for wine in relation to industry-wide production levels as well as by weather and crop conditions, particularly in eastern washington. supply shortages related to any one or more of these factors could increase production costs and wine prices, which ultimately may have a negative impact on ste. michelle’s sales. in addition, federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies. new regulations or revisions to existing regulations, resulting in further restrictions or taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages, may have an adverse effect on ste. michelle’s wine business. for further discussion, see wine segment - business environment in item 7. information systems altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries use information systems to help manage business processes, collect and interpret business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, investors, suppliers, customers and others. many of these information systems are managed by third-party service providers. we have backup systems and business continuity plans in place and we take care to protect our systems and data from unauthorized access. nevertheless, failure of our systems to function as intended, or penetration of our systems by outside parties intent on extracting or corrupting information or otherwise disrupting business processes, could result in loss of revenue, assets or personal or other sensitive data, cause damage to the reputation of our companies and their brands and result in legal challenges and significant remediation and other costs to altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries. governmental investigations from time to time, altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters. we   cannot predict whether new investigations may be commenced or the outcome of such investigations, and it is possible that our business could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome of future investigations. international business operations while altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries are primarily engaged in business activities in the united states, they do engage (directly or indirectly) in certain international business activities that are subject to various united states and foreign laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and other laws prohibiting bribery and corruption.  although we have a code of conduct and a compliance system designed to prevent and detect violations of applicable law, no system can provide assurance that it will always protect against improper actions by employees or third parties. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could result in reputational harm, legal challenges and/or significant costs. item 1b. unresolved