item 1a. risk factors   the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this annual report on form 10-k.   7 table of contents we* may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including earnings guidance and other statements contained in filings with the sec, in reports to security holders and in press releases and investor webcasts. you can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as “strategy,” “expects,” “continues,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “will,” “estimates,” “forecasts,” “intends,” “projects,” “goals,” “objectives,” “guidance,” “targets” and other words of similar meaning. you can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.   we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in altria group, inc.’s securities. in connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. we elaborate on these and other risks we face throughout this document, particularly in the “business environment” sections preceding our discussion of operating results of our subsidiaries’ businesses in management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the 2011 annual report. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. we do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time except as required by applicable law.   tobacco-related litigation. legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various united states and foreign jurisdictions against altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries, including pm usa and ust and its subsidiaries, as well as their respective indemnitees. various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of distributors.   litigation is subject to uncertainty and it is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending or future cases. an unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related or other litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. damages claimed in some tobacco-related or other litigation are significant and, in certain cases, range in the billions of dollars. the variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome. in certain cases, plaintiffs claim that defendants’ liability is joint and several. in such cases, altria group, inc. or its subsidiaries may face the risk that one or more co-defendants decline or otherwise fail to participate in the bonding required for an appeal or to pay their proportionate or jury-allocated share of a judgment. as a result, altria group, inc. or its subsidiaries under certain circumstances may have to pay more than their proportionate share of any bonding- or judgment-related amounts.   although pm usa has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases. this risk has been substantially reduced given that 45 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no *  this section uses the terms “we,” “our” and “us” when it is not necessary to distinguish among altria group, inc. and its various operating subsidiaries or when any distinction is clear from the context.   8 table of contents bond at all. tobacco litigation plaintiffs, however, have challenged the constitutionality of florida’s bond cap statute in several cases and plaintiffs may challenge state bond cap statutes in other jurisdictions as well. such challenges may include the applicability of state bond caps in federal court. although we cannot predict the outcome of such challenges, it is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of altria group, inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome of one or more such challenges.   altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries have achieved substantial success in managing litigation. nevertheless, litigation is subject to uncertainty and significant challenges remain. it is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of altria group, inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. altria group, inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts. each of the companies has defended, and will continue to defend, vigorously against litigation challenges. however, altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of altria group, inc. to do so. see item 3, note 19 and exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 for a discussion of pending tobacco-related litigation.   tobacco regulation and control action in the public and private sectors. our tobacco subsidiaries face significant governmental action, including efforts aimed at reducing the incidence of tobacco use, restricting marketing and advertising, imposing regulations on packaging, warnings and disclosure of flavors or other ingredients, prohibiting the sale of tobacco products with certain characterizing flavors or other characteristics, limiting or prohibiting the sale of tobacco products by certain retail establishments and the sale of tobacco products in certain packing sizes, and seeking to hold them responsible for the adverse health effects associated with both smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke.   pm usa, usstc and other altria group, inc. subsidiaries are subject to regulation, and may become subject to additional regulation, by the fda, as discussed in detail in tobacco space – business environment – fsptca and fda regulation in management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the 2011 annual report. we cannot predict how the fda will implement and enforce its statutory authority, including by promulgating additional regulations and pursuing possible investigatory or enforcement actions.   governmental actions, combined with the diminishing social acceptance of smoking and private actions to restrict smoking, have resulted in reduced cigarette industry volume, and we expect that these factors will continue to reduce cigarette consumption levels. actions by the fda or other federal, state or local governments or agencies may impact the consumer acceptability of tobacco products, limit adult consumer choices, delay or prevent the launch of new or modified tobacco products, restrict communications to adult consumers, restrict the ability to differentiate tobacco products, create a competitive advantage or disadvantage for certain tobacco companies, impose additional manufacturing, labeling or packing requirements, require the recall or removal of tobacco products from the marketplace or otherwise significantly increase the cost of doing business, all or any of which may have a material adverse impact on the results of operations or financial condition of altria group, inc.   excise taxes. tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes, and significant increases in tobacco product-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the united states at the state, federal and local levels. tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of our tobacco products due to lower   9 table of contents consumption levels and to a potential shift in adult consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products. such shifts may have an impact on the reported share performance of tobacco products of altria group, inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries. for further discussion, see tobacco space – business environment – excise taxes in management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the 2011 annual report.   increased competition in the united states tobacco categories. each of altria group, inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries operates in highly competitive tobacco categories. settlements of certain tobacco litigation in the united states have resulted in substantial cigarette price increases. pm usa faces competition from lowest priced brands sold by certain united states and foreign manufacturers that have cost advantages because they are not parties to these settlements. these manufacturers may fail to comply with related state escrow legislation or may avoid escrow deposit obligations on the majority of their sales by concentrating on certain states where escrow deposits are not required or are required on fewer than all such manufacturers’ cigarettes sold in such states. additional competition has resulted from diversion into the united states market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the united states, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes, and increased imports of foreign lowest priced brands. usstc faces significant competition in the smokeless tobacco category, both from existing competitors and new entrants, and has experienced consumer down-trading to lower-priced brands. in the cigar category, additional competition has resulted from increased imports of machine-made large cigars manufactured offshore.   governmental investigations. from time to time, altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters. we cannot predict whether new investigations may be commenced or the outcome of such investigations, and it is possible that our subsidiaries’ businesses could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome of future investigations.   new product technologies. altria group, inc.’s subsidiaries continue to seek ways to develop and to commercialize new product technologies that may reduce the health risks associated with current tobacco products, while continuing to offer adult tobacco consumers (within and potentially outside the united states) products that meet their taste expectations and evolving preferences. potential solutions being researched include tobacco-containing and nicotine-containing products that reduce or eliminate exposure to cigarette smoke and/or constituents identified by public health authorities as harmful. these efforts may include arrangements with third parties. moreover, these efforts may not succeed. if they do not succeed, but one or more of their competitors does, our subsidiaries may be at a competitive disadvantage. further, we cannot predict whether regulators, including the fda, will permit the marketing or sale of such products with claims of reduced risk to consumers or whether consumers’ purchase decisions would be affected by such claims, which could affect the commercial viability of any such products that might be developed.   adjacency strategy. altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries have adjacency growth strategies involving moves and potential moves into complementary products or processes. we cannot guarantee that these strategies, or any products introduced in connection with these strategies, will be successful. for a related discussion, see new product technologies above.   tobacco price, availability and quality. any significant change in tobacco leaf prices, quality or availability could affect our tobacco subsidiaries’ profitability and business. for a discussion of factors that influence leaf prices, availability and quality, see tobacco space – business environment – tobacco price, availability and quality in management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the 2011 annual report.   10 table of contents tobacco key facilities; supply security. altria group, inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries face risks inherent in reliance on a few significant facilities and a small number of significant suppliers. a natural or man-made disaster or other disruption that affects the manufacturing facilities of any of altria group, inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries or the facilities of any significant suppliers of any of altria group, inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries could adversely impact the operations of the affected subsidiaries. an extended interruption in operations experienced by one or more altria group, inc. subsidiaries or significant suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of altria group, inc.   attracting and retaining talent. our ability to implement our strategy of attracting and retaining the best talent may be impaired by the decreasing social acceptance of tobacco usage. the tobacco industry competes for talent with the consumer products industry and other companies that enjoy greater societal acceptance. as a result, our tobacco subsidiaries may be unable to attract and retain the best talent.   competition, evolving consumer preferences and economic downturns. each of our tobacco and wine subsidiaries is subject to intense competition, changes in consumer preferences and changes in economic conditions. to be successful, they must continue to:     •   promote brand equity successfully;     •   anticipate and respond to new and evolving consumer preferences;     •   develop new products and markets within and potentially outside of the united states and to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete effectively with lower-priced products;     •   improve productivity; and     •   protect or enhance margins through cost savings and price increases.   the willingness of adult consumers to purchase premium consumer product brands depends in part on economic conditions. in periods of economic uncertainty, adult consumers may purchase more discount brands and/or, in the case of tobacco products, consider lower-priced tobacco products. the volumes of our tobacco and wine subsidiaries could suffer accordingly.   our finance subsidiary, pmcc, holds investments in finance leases, principally in transportation (including aircraft), power generation and manufacturing equipment and facilities. its lessees are also subject to intense competition and economic conditions. if parties to pmcc’s leases fail to manage through difficult economic and competitive conditions, pmcc may have to increase its allowance for losses, which would adversely affect our earnings.   acquisitions. altria group, inc. from time to time considers acquisitions. from time to time we may engage in confidential acquisition negotiations that are not publicly announced unless and until those negotiations result in a definitive agreement. although we seek to maintain or improve our credit ratings over time, it is possible that completing a given acquisition or other event could impact our credit ratings or the outlook for those ratings. furthermore, acquisition opportunities are limited, and acquisitions present risks of failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms, that we will realize any of the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or that acquisitions will be quickly accretive to earnings.   capital markets. access to the capital markets is important for us to satisfy our liquidity and financing needs. disruption and uncertainty in the capital markets and any resulting tightening of credit availability, pricing and/or credit terms may negatively affect the amount of credit available to us and may also increase our costs and adversely affect our earnings or our dividend rate.   11 table of contents exchange rates. for purposes of financial reporting, the equity earnings attributable to altria group, inc.’s investment in sabmiller are translated into u.s. dollars from various local currencies based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. during times of a strengthening u.s. dollar against these currencies, our reported equity earnings in sabmiller will be reduced because the local currencies will translate into fewer u.s. dollars.   asset impairment. we periodically calculate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets to test for impairment. this calculation may be affected by several factors, including general economic conditions, regulatory developments, changes in category growth rates as a result of changing consumer preferences, success of planned new product introductions, competitive activity and tobacco-related taxes. if an impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which will reduce our earnings. for further discussion, see discussion and analysis – critical accounting policies and estimates in management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the 2011 annual report.   irs challenges to pmcc leases. the irs has challenged and is expected to further challenge the tax treatment of certain of pmcc’s leveraged leases. as discussed in item 3 and note 19, should altria group, inc. not prevail in any one or more of these matters, altria group, inc. will have to accelerate the payment of significant amounts of federal and state income tax and pay associated interest costs and penalties, if imposed. in the second quarter of 2011, altria group, inc. recorded the pmcc leveraged lease charge, which is discussed in item 3, note 8, note 15 and note 19. the pmcc leveraged lease charge excludes potential penalties because altria group, inc. believes that it met the applicable standards to avoid any associated penalties at the time it claimed the deductions on its tax returns.   wine – competition; grape supply; regulation and excise taxes. ste. michelle’s business is subject to significant competition, including from many large, well-established domestic and international companies. the adequacy of ste. michelle’s grape supply is influenced by consumer demand for wine in relation to industry-wide production levels as well as by weather and crop conditions, particularly in eastern washington state. supply shortages related to any one or more of these factors could increase production costs and wine prices, which ultimately may have a negative impact on ste. michelle’s sales. in addition, federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies. new regulations or revisions to existing regulations, resulting in further restrictions or taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages, may have an adverse effect on ste. michelle’s wine business. for further discussion, see wine segment – business environment in management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the 2011 annual report.   information systems. altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries use information systems to help manage business processes, collect and interpret business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others. many of these information systems are managed by third-party service providers. we have backup systems and business continuity plans in place and we take care to protect our systems and data from unauthorized access. nevertheless, failure of our systems to function as intended, or penetration of our systems by outside parties intent on extracting or corrupting information or otherwise disrupting business processes, could result in loss of revenue, assets or personal or other sensitive data, cause damage to the reputation of our companies and their brands and result in legal challenges and significant remediation and other costs to altria group, inc. and its subsidiaries.   item 1b. unresolved