item 1a. risk factors   if any of the following occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could also decline. we operate in a continually changing business environment.  in this environment, new risks may emerge and already identified risks may vary significantly in terms of impact and likelihood of occurrence. management cannot predict such developments, nor can it assess the impact, if any, on our business of such new risk factors or of events described in any forward-looking statements. we have adopted an enterprise wide risk analysis and oversight program designed to identify the various risks faced by the organization, assign responsibility for managing those risks to individual executives as well as align these risks with board oversight. these enterprise-level identified risks have been aligned to the risk factors discussed below.  15 table of contents safety, compliance and operational excellence our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an airline accident or incident.   an accident or incident involving one of our aircraft or an aircraft operated by one of our codeshare partners or cpa carriers could involve a significant loss of life and result in a loss of confidence in our airlines by the flying public and/or aviation authorities. we could experience significant claims from injured passengers, by-standers and surviving relatives, as well as costs for the repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service. we maintain liability insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry practice, as do our codeshare partners and cpa carriers. however, the amount of such coverage may not be adequate to fully cover all claims and we may be forced to bear substantial economic losses from an accident. substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm our business and financial results. moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured and even if it does not involve one of our aircraft, could cause a public perception that our airlines or the equipment they fly are less safe or reliable than other transportation alternatives, which would harm our business. changes in government regulation imposing additional requirements and restrictions on our operations or on the airports at which we operate could increase our operating costs and result in service delays and disruptions.   airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant compliance costs. in the last several years, congress has passed laws, and the u.s. dot, the tsa and the faa have issued regulations that have required significant expenditures relating to the maintenance and operation of airlines and establishment of consumer protections. similarly, there are a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives and reforms at the federal, state, and local level, including increasingly stringent laws protecting the environment, minimum wage requirements, and health care mandates that could affect our relationship with our workforce and cause our expenses to increase without an ability to pass through these costs.   almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. many airports have increased their rates and charges to air carriers related to higher security costs, increased costs related to updated infrastructures, and other costs. additional laws, regulations, taxes, and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce the demand for air travel. although lawmakers may impose these additional fees and view them as “pass-through” costs, we believe that a higher total ticket price will influence consumer purchase and travel decisions and may result in an overall decline in passenger traffic, which would harm our business. the airline industry continues to face potential security concerns and related costs. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 and their aftermath negatively affected the airline industry, including our company. additional terrorist attacks, the fear of such attacks or other hostilities involving the u.s. could have a further significant negative effect on the airline industry, including us, and could:   • significantly reduce passenger traffic and yields as a result of a potentially dramatic drop in demand for air travel;   • significantly increase security and insurance costs;   • make war risk or other insurance unavailable or extremely expensive;   • increase fuel costs and the volatility of fuel prices;   • increase costs from airport shutdowns, flight cancellations and delays resulting from security breaches and perceived safety threats; and   • result in a grounding of commercial air traffic by the faa.   the occurrence of any of these events would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.    16 table of contents we rely on third-party vendors for certain critical activities.   we have historically relied on outside vendors for a variety of services and functions critical to our business, including airframe and engine maintenance, ground handling, fueling, computer reservation system hosting, telecommunication systems, and information technology infrastructure and services. as part of our cost-reduction efforts, our reliance on outside vendors has increased and may continue to do so in the future, especially since we rely on timely and effective third-party performance in conjunction with many of our technology-related initiatives. in addition, in recent years, alaska and horizon have subcontracted their heavy aircraft maintenance, fleet service, facilities maintenance, and ground handling services at certain airports, including seattle-tacoma international airport, to outside vendors.   even though we strive to formalize agreements with these vendors that define expected service levels, our use of outside vendors increases our exposure to several risks. in the event that one or more vendors go into bankruptcy, ceases operation or fails to perform as promised, replacement services may not be readily available at competitive rates, or at all. if one of our vendors fails to perform adequately, we may experience increased costs, delays, maintenance issues, safety issues or negative public perception of our airline. vendor bankruptcies, unionization, regulatory compliance issues or significant changes in the competitive marketplace among suppliers could adversely affect vendor services or force us to renegotiate existing agreements on less favorable terms. these events could result in disruptions in our operations or increases in our cost structure. our operations are often affected by factors beyond our control, including delays, cancellations, and other conditions, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. like other airlines, our operations often are affected by delays, cancellations and other conditions caused by factors largely beyond our control. other conditions that might impact our operations include:   • lack of a national airline policy; • lack of operational approval (e.g. new routes, aircraft deliveries, etc.) due to government shutdown; • air traffic congestion at airports or other air traffic control problems;   • adverse weather conditions;   • increased security measures or breaches in security;   • international or domestic conflicts or terrorist activity; and • other changes in business conditions. due to our concentration of flights in the pacific northwest and alaska, we believe a large portion of our operation is more susceptible to adverse weather conditions. a general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the above-mentioned factors could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. strategy the airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting and changes in capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on the company. if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially adversely affected. the u.s. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition. in recent years, the market share held by low-cost carriers has increased significantly and is expected to continue to increase. airlines also compete for market share by increasing or decreasing their capacity, including route systems and the number of markets served. several of our competitors have increased their capacity in markets we serve, particularly on the west coast, therefore increasing competition for those destinations. this increased competition in both domestic and international markets may have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. we continue to strive toward aggressive cost-reduction goals that are an important part of our business strategy of offering the best value to passengers through competitive fares while achieving acceptable profit margins and return on capital. if we are  17 table of contents unable to reduce our costs over the long-term and achieve sustained targeted return on invested capital, we will likely not be able to grow our business in the future or weather industry downturns and therefore our financial results may suffer. the airline industry may undergo further restructuring, consolidation, or the creation or modification of alliances or joint ventures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we continue to face strong competition from other carriers due to restructuring, consolidation, and the creation and modification of alliances and joint ventures. since deregulation, both the u.s. and international airline industries have experienced consolidation through a number of mergers and acquisitions. carriers may improve their competitive positions through airline alliances, slot swaps/acquisitions, and/or joint ventures. certain airline joint ventures further competition by allowing airlines to coordinate routes, pool revenues and costs, and enjoy other mutual benefits, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. we depend on a few key markets to be successful.   our strategy is to focus on serving a few key markets, including seattle, los angeles, anchorage, portland, hawaii and san diego. a significant portion of our flights occur to and from our seattle hub. in 2013, passengers to and from seattle accounted for 61% of our total passengers. we believe that concentrating our service offerings in this way allows us to maximize our investment in personnel, aircraft, and ground facilities, as well as to gain greater advantage from sales and marketing efforts in those regions. as a result, we remain highly dependent on our key markets. our business could be harmed by any circumstances causing a reduction in demand for air transportation in our key markets. an increase in competition in our key markets could also cause us to reduce fares or take other competitive measures that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. economic uncertainty or another recession would likely impact demand for our product and could harm our financial condition and results of operations.   the airline industry, which is subject to relatively high fixed costs and highly variable and unpredictable demand, is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. we are also highly dependent on u.s. consumer confidence and the health of the u.s. economy. unfavorable u.s. economic conditions have historically driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. for some consumers, leisure travel is a discretionary expense, and shorthaul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with surface travel. businesses are able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as videoconferencing and the internet or may be more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce costs, which can result in a decrease in average revenue per seat. unfavorable economic conditions also hamper the ability of airlines to raise fares to counteract increased fuel, labor, and other costs. unfavorable or even uncertain economic conditions could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft and parts.   alaska is dependent on boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many aircraft parts. horizon is similarly dependent on bombardier. additionally, each carrier is dependent on sole suppliers for aircraft engines. as a result, we are more vulnerable to any problems associated with the supply of those aircraft and parts, including design defects, mechanical problems, contractual performance by the manufacturers, or adverse perception by the public that would result in customer avoidance or in actions by the faa resulting in an inability to operate our aircraft. we rely on partner airlines for codeshare and frequent flyer marketing arrangements.   alaska and horizon are parties to marketing agreements with a number of domestic and international air carriers, or “partners," including, but not limited to, american airlines and delta air lines. these agreements provide that certain flight segments operated by us are held out as partner “codeshare” flights and that certain partner flights are held out for sale as alaska codeshare flights. in addition, the agreements generally provide that members of alaska’s mileage plan program can earn miles on or redeem miles for partner flights and vice versa. we receive revenue from flights sold under codeshare and from interline arrangements. in addition, we believe that the frequent flyer arrangements are an important part of our mileage plan program. the loss of a significant partner through bankruptcy, consolidation, or otherwise, could have a negative effect on our revenues or the attractiveness of our mileage plan, which we believe is a source of competitive advantage.  18 table of contents there is ongoing speculation that further airline consolidations or reorganizations could occur in the future. we routinely engage in analysis and discussions regarding our own strategic position, including alliances, codeshare arrangements, interline arrangements, frequent flyer program enhancements, and may have future discussions with other airlines regarding similar activities. if other airlines participate in consolidations or reorganizations, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of ours and potentially impairing our ability to realize expected benefits from our own strategic relationships. information technology we rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business, and a failure to invest in new technology, or a disruption of our current systems or their operators could harm our business.   we depend on automated systems to operate our business, including our airline reservation system, our telecommunication systems, our website, our maintenance systems, our check-in kiosks, and other systems. substantially all of our tickets are issued to passengers as electronic tickets and the majority of our customers check in using our website or our airport kiosks. we depend on our reservation system to be able to issue, track and accept these electronic tickets. in order for our operations to work efficiently, we must continue to invest in new technology to ensure that our website, reservation system, and check-in systems are able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information, and deliver important flight information. substantial or repeated website, reservations system or telecommunication systems failures or service disruptions could reduce the attractiveness of our services and cause our customers to do business with another airline. in addition, we rely on other automated systems for crew scheduling, flight dispatch, and other operational needs. disruptions, untimely recovery, or a breach of these systems could result in the loss of important data, an increase of our expenses, an impact on our operational performance, or a possible temporary cessation of our operations. if we do not maintain the privacy and security of our information, we could damage our reputation and incur substantial legal and regulatory costs. we accept, store, and transmit information about our customers, our employees, our business partners and our business.  in addition, we frequently rely on third-party hosting sites and data processors, including cloud providers. our sensitive information relies on secure transmission over public and private networks.  a compromise of our systems, the security of our infrastructure, or those of other business partners that result in our information being accessed or stolen by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our operations and our reputation. financial condition and financial markets our business, financial condition, and results of operations are substantially exposed to the volatility of jet fuel prices. increases in jet fuel costs would harm our business.   fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses, accounting for 34%, 35% and 34% of total operating expenses for the years ended 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. future increases in the price of jet fuel may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, unless we are able to increase fares and fees, or add additional ancillary fees to attempt to recover increasing fuel costs. certain of the company’s financing agreements have covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on the company and its subsidiaries. certain of our credit facilities and indentures governing our secured borrowings impose certain operating and financial covenants on us. such covenants require us to maintain, depending on the particular agreement, minimum fixed charge coverage ratios, minimum liquidity and/or minimum collateral coverage ratios, and other negative covenants customary for such financings. a decline in the value of collateral could result in a situation where we may not be able to maintain the required collateral coverage ratio. our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including the overall industry revenue environment and the level of fuel costs, and we may be required to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, repay all or a portion of the debt or find alternative sources of financing.  19 table of contents our maintenance costs will increase as our fleet ages, and we will periodically incur substantial maintenance costs due to the maintenance schedules of our aircraft fleet. as of december 31, 2013, the average age of our nextgen aircraft (b737-800, -900, -900ers) was approximately 5.8 years, and the average age of our q400 aircraft was approximately 7.1 years. our relatively new aircraft require less maintenance now than they will in the future. our fleet will require more maintenance as it ages. additionally, during the current year we modified one of our power-by-the-hour agreements and terminated another agreement, meaning that we could be more susceptible to variances in our maintenance expense due to more expensive scheduled maintenance, foreign object damage, unplanned engine removal or other unplanned maintenance event. any significant increase in maintenance expenses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. brand and reputation as we evolve our brand to appeal to a changing demographic and grow into new markets, we will engage in strategic initiatives that may not be favorably received by all customers .   we continue to focus on strategic initiatives designed to increase our brand appeal to a diverse and evolving demographic of airline travelers. these efforts could include significant improvements to our in-airport and on-board environments, increasing our direct customer relationships through improvements to our purchasing portals (digital and mobile), and optimization of our customer loyalty programs. in pursuit of these efforts we may negatively affect our reputation with some of our existing customer base.   labor relations and labor strategy a significant increase in labor costs, unsuccessful attempts to strengthen our relationships with union employees, or loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business and results of operations.    labor costs are a significant component of our total expenses, accounting for approximately 42%, 42% and 41% of our non-fuel operating expenses in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. each of our represented employee groups has a separate collective bargaining agreement, and could make demands that would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our financial performance if we agree to them. the same result could apply if we experience a significant increase in vendor labor costs that ultimately flow-through to us. as of december 31, 2013, labor unions represented approximately 83% of alaska’s and 49% of horizon’s employees. although we have been successful in maturing communications, negotiating approaches, and other strategies to enhance workforce engagement in the company's long-term vision, future uncertainty around open contracts could be a distraction, affecting employee focus in our business and diverting management’s attention from other projects and issues. we compete against the major u.s. airlines and other businesses for labor in many highly skilled positions. if we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost, sustain employee engagement in the company's strategic vision, or if we are unsuccessful at implementing succession plans for our key staff, we may be unable to grow or sustain our business. in such case, our operating results and business prospects could be harmed. item 1b.     unresolved