item 1a. risk factors   if any of the following occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could also decline. we operate in a continually changing business environment.  in this environment, new risks may emerge and already identified risks may vary significantly in terms of impact and likelihood of occurrence. management cannot predict such developments, nor can it assess the impact, if any, on our business of such new risk factors or of events described in any forward-looking statements. we have adopted an enterprise wide risk analysis and oversight program designed to identify the various risks faced by the organization, assign responsibility for managing those risks to individual executives as well as align these risks with board oversight. these enterprise-level identified risks have been aligned to the risk factors discussed below. safety, compliance and operational excellence our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an airline accident or incident.   an accident or incident involving one of our aircraft or an aircraft operated by one of our codeshare partners or cpa carriers could involve a significant loss of life and result in a loss of confidence in our airlines by the flying public and/or aviation authorities. we could experience significant claims from injured passengers, by-standers and surviving relatives, as well as costs for the repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service. we maintain liability insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry practice, as do our codeshare partners and cpa carriers. however, the amount of such coverage may not be adequate to fully cover all claims and we may be forced to bear substantial economic losses from an accident. substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related 14 table of contents insurance coverage would harm our business and financial results. moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured and even if it does not involve one of our aircraft, could cause a public perception that our airlines or the equipment they fly are less safe or reliable than other transportation alternatives, which would harm our business. changes in government regulation imposing additional requirements and restrictions on our operations or on the airports at which we operate could increase our operating costs and result in service delays and disruptions.   airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant compliance costs. in the last several years, congress has passed laws, and the u.s. dot, the tsa and the faa have issued regulations that have required significant expenditures relating to the maintenance and operation of airlines and establishment of consumer protections. similarly, many aspects of an airline’s operations are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws protecting the environment.   because of significantly higher security and other costs incurred by airports since september 11, 2001, many airports have increased their rates and charges to air carriers. additional laws, regulations, taxes, and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce the demand for air travel. although lawmakers may impose these additional fees and view them as “pass-through” costs, we believe that a higher total ticket price will influence consumer purchase and travel decisions and may result in an overall decline in passenger traffic, which would harm our business. the airline industry continues to face potential security concerns and related costs. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 and their aftermath negatively affected the airline industry, including our company. additional terrorist attacks, the fear of such attacks or other hostilities involving the u.s. could have a further significant negative effect on the airline industry, including us, and could:   • significantly reduce passenger traffic and yields as a result of a potentially dramatic drop in demand for air travel;   • significantly increase security and insurance costs;   • make war risk or other insurance unavailable or extremely expensive;   • increase fuel costs and the volatility of fuel prices;   • increase costs from airport shutdowns, flight cancellations and delays resulting from security breaches and perceived safety threats; and   • result in a grounding of commercial air traffic by the faa.   the occurrence of any of these events would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.   we rely on third-party vendors for certain critical activities.   we have historically relied on outside vendors for a variety of services and functions critical to our business, including airframe and engine maintenance, ground handling, fueling, computer reservation system hosting, telecommunication systems, and information technology infrastructure and services. as part of our cost-reduction efforts, our reliance on outside vendors has increased and may continue to do so in the future, especially since we rely on timely and effective third-party performance in conjunction with many of our technology-related initiatives. in addition, in recent years, alaska and horizon have subcontracted their heavy aircraft maintenance, fleet service, facilities maintenance, and ground handling services at certain airports, including seattle-tacoma international airport, to outside vendors.   even though we strive to formalize agreements with these vendors that define expected service levels, our use of outside vendors increases our exposure to several risks. in the event that one or more vendors go into bankruptcy, ceases operation or fails to perform as promised, replacement services may not be readily available at competitive rates, or at all. if one of our vendors fails to perform adequately, we may experience increased costs, delays, maintenance issues, safety issues or negative public perception of our airline. vendor bankruptcies, unionization, regulatory compliance issues or significant changes in the competitive marketplace among suppliers could adversely affect vendor services or force us to renegotiate existing agreements on less favorable terms. these events could result in disruptions in our operations or increases in our cost structure. 15 table of contents our operations are often affected by factors beyond our control, including delays, cancellations, and other conditions, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. like other airlines, our operations often are affected by delays, cancellations and other conditions caused by factors largely beyond our control. other conditions that might impact our operations include:   • air traffic congestion at airports or other air traffic control problems;   • adverse weather conditions;   • increased security measures or breaches in security;   • international or domestic conflicts or terrorist activity; and • other changes in business conditions. due to our concentration of flights in the pacific northwest and alaska, we believe a large portion of our operation is more susceptible to adverse weather conditions than that of many of our competitors. a general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the above-mentioned factors could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. strategy the airline industry is highly competitive. if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially adversely affected. we face significant competition with respect to routes, services, and fares. some of our competitors have lower costs than we do and compete directly against us in our markets. we continue to strive toward aggressive cost-reduction goals that are an important part of our business strategy of offering the best value to passengers through competitive fares while achieving acceptable profit margins and return on capital. if we are unable to reduce our costs over the long-term and achieve sustained targeted return on invested capital, we will likely not be able to grow our business in the future or weather industry downturns and therefore our financial results may suffer. we depend on a few key markets to be successful.   our strategy is to focus on serving a few key markets, including seattle, portland, los angeles, hawaii and anchorage. a significant portion of our flights occur to and from our seattle hub. in 2012, passengers to and from seattle accounted for 61% of our total passengers. we believe that concentrating our service offerings in this way allows us to maximize our investment in personnel, aircraft, and ground facilities, as well as to gain greater advantage from sales and marketing efforts in those regions. as a result, we remain highly dependent on our key markets. our business could be harmed by any circumstances causing a reduction in demand for air transportation in our key markets. an increase in competition in our key markets could also cause us to reduce fares or take other competitive measures that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. economic uncertainty or another recession would likely impact demand for our product and could harm our financial condition and results of operations.   the recent u.s. and global economic recession resulted in a decline in demand for air travel. while some economic indicators are showing signs of growth, unemployment remains high in some of our key markets. given that the strength of the u.s. and global economies have an impact on the demand for air travel, a long-term economic slump could result in a need to adjust our capacity plans, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft and parts.   alaska is dependent on boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many aircraft parts. horizon is similarly dependent on bombardier. additionally, each carrier is dependent on sole suppliers for aircraft engines. as a result, we are more vulnerable to any problems associated with the supply of those aircraft and parts, including design defects, mechanical problems, 16 table of contents contractual performance by the manufacturers, or adverse perception by the public that would result in customer avoidance or in actions by the faa resulting in an inability to operate our aircraft. we rely on partner airlines for codeshare and frequent flyer marketing arrangements.   alaska and horizon are parties to marketing agreements with a number of domestic and international air carriers, or “partners," including, but not limited to, american airlines and delta air lines. these agreements provide that certain flight segments operated by us are held out as partner “codeshare” flights and that certain partner flights are held out for sale as alaska codeshare flights. in addition, the agreements generally provide that members of alaska’s mileage plan program can earn miles on or redeem miles for partner flights and vice versa. we receive a significant amount of revenue from flights sold under codeshare arrangements. in addition, we believe that the frequent flyer arrangements are an important part of our mileage plan program. the loss of a significant partner or certain partner flights through bankruptcy, consolidation, or otherwise, could have a negative effect on our revenues or the attractiveness of our mileage plan, which we believe is a source of competitive advantage. information technology we rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business, and a failure to invest in new technology, or a disruption of our current systems or their operators could harm our business.   we depend on automated systems to operate our business, including our airline reservation system, our telecommunication systems, our website, our maintenance systems, our check-in kiosks, and other systems. substantially all of our tickets are issued to passengers as electronic tickets and the majority of our customers check in using our website or our airport kiosks. we depend on our reservation system to be able to issue, track and accept these electronic tickets. in order for our operations to work efficiently, we must continue to invest in new technology to ensure that our website, reservation system, and check-in systems are able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information, and deliver important flight information. substantial or repeated website, reservations system or telecommunication systems failures or service disruptions could reduce the attractiveness of our services and cause our customers to do business with another airline. in addition, we rely on other automated systems for crew scheduling, flight dispatch, and other operational needs. disruptions, untimely recovery, or a breach of these systems could result in the loss of important data, an increase of our expenses, an impact on our operational performance, or a possible temporary cessation of our operations. if we do not maintain the privacy and security of our information, we could damage our reputation and incur substantial legal and regulatory costs. we accept, store, and transmit information about our customers, our employees, our business partners and our business.  in addition, we frequently rely on third-party hosting sites and data processors, including cloud providers. our sensitive information relies on secure transmission over public and private networks.  a compromise of our systems, the security of our infrastructure, or those of other business partners that result in our information being accessed or stolen by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our operations and our reputation. financial condition and financial markets our business, financial condition, and results of operations are substantially exposed to the volatility of jet fuel prices. increases in jet fuel costs would harm our business.   fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses, accounting for 35%, 34% and 27% of total operating expenses for the years ended 2012, 2011  and 2010, respectively. future increases in the price of jet fuel may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, unless we are able to increase fares or add additional ancillary fees to attempt to recover increasing fuel costs. the outcome of the resolution process, and any subsequent challenge, through which new lease terms at sea-tac will be set cannot be predicted with certainty. our lease with the port of seattle for terminal space at seattle-tacoma international airport expired on december 31, 2012. negotiations for a new lease have thus far been unsuccessful. absent a negotiated lease, federal law requires the port to set new rates by means of a resolution. the company and other sea-tac carriers may accept the new resolution or ask the dot to set them aside as unreasonable under federal law. the resolution process and any subsequent challenge by us or other airlines will not interrupt our tenancy at sea-tac. 17 table of contents our continuing obligation to fund our traditional defined-benefit pension plans could negatively affect our ability to compete in the marketplace. our defined-benefit pension plan assets are subject to market risk. if market returns are poor in the future or if interest rates used to discount our future obligation decrease, any future obligation to make additional cash contributions in accordance with the pension protection act of 2006 could increase and harm our liquidity. poor market returns or low interest rates could lead to higher pension expense in our consolidated statements of operations. the calculation of pension expense is dependent on many assumptions that are more fully described in “critical accounting estimates” and note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.   aviation insurers could increase their premiums in the event of additional terrorist attacks, hijackings, airline accidents or other events adversely affecting the airline industry. furthermore, the full hull and liability war risk insurance provided by the government is currently mandated through december 31, 2013. although the government may again extend the deadline for providing such coverage, we cannot be certain that any extension will occur, or if it does, for how long the extension will last. it is expected that, should the government stop providing such coverage to the airline industry, the premiums charged by aviation insurers for this coverage will be substantially higher than the premiums currently charged by the government and the coverage will be much more limited, including smaller aggregate limits and shorter cancellation periods. significant increases in insurance premiums would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. brand and reputation as we evolve our brand to appeal to a changing demographic and grow into new markets, we will engage in strategic initiatives that may not be favorably received by all customers .   we continue to focus on strategic initiatives designed to increase our brand appeal to a diverse and evolving demographic of airline travelers. these efforts could include significant improvements to our in-airport and on-board environments, increasing our direct customer relationships through improvements to our purchasing portals (digital and mobile), and optimization of our customer loyalty programs. if in pursuit of these efforts we may negatively affect our reputation with some of our existing customer base, which could result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results.   labor relations and labor strategy a significant increase in labor costs, unsuccessful attempts to strengthen our relationships with union employees, or loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business and results of operations.    labor costs are a significant component of our total expenses, accounting for approximately 42%, 41% and 43% of our non-fuel operating expenses in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. each of our represented employee groups has a separate collective bargaining agreement, and could make demands that would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our financial performance if we agree to them. as of december 31, 2012, labor unions represented approximately 83% of alaska’s and 49% of horizon’s employees. although we have been successful in maturing communications, negotiating approaches, and other strategies to enhance workforce engagement in the company's long-term vision, future uncertainty around open contracts could be a distraction, affecting employee focus in our business and diverting management’s attention from other projects and issues. we compete against the major u.s. airlines and other businesses for labor in many highly skilled positions. if we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost, sustain employee engagement in the company's strategic vision, or if we are unsuccessful at implementing succession plans for our key staff, we may be unable to grow or sustain our business. in such case, our operating results and business prospects could be harmed. item 1b.     unresolved