item 1a.   risk factors   an investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. the material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference herein. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. this report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. see also, “special note regarding forward-looking statements.”   if any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.   credit risks   we are subject to lending concentration risks.  as of december 31, 2010, approximately 55% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, real estate construction, commercial real estate loans, and lease financing (collectively, “commercial loans”). commercial loans are generally viewed as having more inherent risk of default than residential mortgage loans or retail loans. also, the commercial loan balance per borrower is typically larger than that for residential mortgage loans and retail loans, inferring higher potential losses on an individual loan basis. because our loan portfolio contains a number of commercial loans with balances over $25 million, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonaccrual loans. an increase in nonaccrual loans could result in a loss of interest income from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loan charge offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings, as our borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline.  our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings. because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which could have an adverse impact on our earnings. consequently, any decline in the economy in our market area could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient.  all borrowers carry the potential to default and our remedies to recover (seizure and/or sale of collateral, legal actions, guarantees, etc.) may not fully satisfy money previously lent. we maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which represents management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. the allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. the level of the allowance for loan losses reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political, and regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem 15 table of contents loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. in addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge offs, based on judgments different than those of management. an increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   we are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.  a significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. during the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. in doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. if hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. in addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. the remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   lack of system integrity or credit quality related to funds settlement could result in a financial loss.  we settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card and electronic bill payment transactions, supporting consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. these payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties and the facilitation of the payment. if the continuity of operations or integrity of processing were compromised this could result in a financial loss to us due to a failure in payment facilitation. in addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. a default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us.   financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.  in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. we may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could cause us to enter into unfavorable transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   operational risks   changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition.  our accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our financial results and condition. some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. if such estimates or assumptions underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses.   from time to time the financial accounting standards board (fasb) and the sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. these changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our results of operations and financial condition. we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. 16 table of contents our internal controls may be ineffective.  management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.   impairment of investment securities, goodwill, other intangible assets, or deferred tax assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations.  in assessing whether the impairment of investment securities is other-than-temporary, management considers the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the intent and ability to retain our investment in the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value in the near term. under current accounting standards, goodwill is not amortized but, instead, is subject to impairment tests on at least an annual basis or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. during 2010, the annual impairment test was completed and the fair value of the reporting units exceeded the fair value of their assets and liabilities. in the event that we conclude that all or a portion of our goodwill may be impaired, a non-cash charge for the amount of such impairment would be recorded to earnings. such a charge would have no impact on tangible capital. a decline in our stock price or occurrence of a triggering event following any of our quarterly earnings releases and prior to the filing of the periodic report for that period could, under certain circumstances, cause us to perform a goodwill impairment test and result in an impairment charge being recorded for that period which was not reflected in such earnings release. at december 31, 2010, we had goodwill of $929 million, representing approximately 29% of stockholders’ equity, of which $907 million was assigned to the banking segment and $22 million was assigned to the wealth management segment. in assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. assessing the need for, or the sufficiency of, a valuation allowance requires management to evaluate all available evidence, both negative and positive. positive evidence necessary to overcome the negative evidence includes whether future taxable income in sufficient amounts and character within the carryback and carryforward periods is available under the tax law, including the use of tax planning strategies. when negative evidence (e.g., cumulative losses in recent years, history of operating loss or tax credit carryforwards expiring unused) exists, more positive evidence than negative evidence will be necessary. as a result of the pre-tax losses incurred during 2009 and 2010, the corporation is in a cumulative pre-tax loss position for financial statement purposes for the three-year period ended december 31, 2010. if the positive evidence is not sufficient to exceed the negative evidence, a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is established. at december 31, 2010, net deferred tax assets are approximately $129 million. the impact of each of these impairment matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.   we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.  our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain skilled people. competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense, and we may not be able to hire sufficiently skilled people or to retain them. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.   loss of key employees may disrupt relationships with certain customers.  our business is primarily relationship-driven in that many of our key employees have extensive customer relationships. loss of a key employee with such customer relationships may lead to the loss of business if the customers were to follow that employee to a competitor. while we believe our relationship with our key personnel is good, we cannot guarantee that all of our key personnel will remain with our organization. loss of such key personnel, should they enter into an employment relationship with one of our competitors, could result in the loss of some of our customers.   because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, we face significant operational risks.  we operate in many different businesses in diverse markets and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, 17 table of contents breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery. insurance coverage may not be available for such losses, or where available, such losses may exceed insurance limits. this risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. in the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to our reputation.   we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.  third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. while we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.   revenues from our investment management and asset servicing businesses are significant to our earnings.  generating returns that satisfy clients in a variety of asset classes is important to maintaining existing business and attracting new business. administering or managing assets in accordance with the terms of governing documents and applicable laws is also important to client satisfaction. failure in either of the foregoing areas can expose us to liability, and result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings.   our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.  we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   the potential for business interruption exists throughout our organization.  integral to our performance is the continued efficacy of our technical systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and the vast array of associates and key executives in our day-to-day and ongoing operations. failure by any or all of these resources subjects us to risks that may vary in size, scale and scope. this includes, but is not limited to, operational or technical failures, ineffectiveness or exposure due to interruption in third party support as expected, as well as the loss of key individuals or failure on the part of key individuals to perform properly. although management has established policies and procedures to address such failures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   legal/compliance risks   we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision.  we, primarily through associated bank and certain nonbank subsidiaries, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. these regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, and/or increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by 18 table of contents regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur.   the full impact of the recently enacted dodd-frank act is currently unknown given that much of the details and substance of the new laws will be implemented through agency rulemakings.  on july 21, 2010, the dodd-frank act was signed into law. the dodd-frank act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the united states and requires federal agencies to adopt nearly 250 new rules and conduct more than 60 studies over the course of the next few years, ensuring that the federal regulations and implementing policies in these areas will continue to develop for the foreseeable future.   significantly, the dodd-frank act includes the following provisions which affect the corporation or the bank:   (1) it establishes the new bureau of consumer financial protection (“bcfp”) which will directly regulate and supervise the bank for compliance with the bcfp’s regulations and policies. the creation of the bcfp will directly impact the scope and cost of products and services offered to consumers by the bank and may have a significant effect on its financial performance.   (2) it revises the fdic’s insurance assessment methodology so that premiums will be assessed based upon the average consolidated total assets of the bank less tangible equity capital. it is expected that this change to the premium calculation will require larger insurance premium payments from fdic-insured institutions such as the bank.   (3) it permanently increases deposit insurance coverage to $250,000; in addition, for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts, such accounts will receive unlimited fdic deposit insurance through january 1, 2013.   (4) it authorizes the federal reserve to set debit interchange fees in an amount that is “reasonable and proportional” to the costs incurred by processors and card issuers. notably, a proposed federal reserve rule that would limit this interchange fee to 12 cents per transaction has been announced but, as of the date of publication, has not yet been finalized.   (5) it imposes proprietary trading restrictions on insured depository institutions and their holding companies that prohibit them from engaging in proprietary trading except in limited circumstances, and prevents them from owning equity interests in excess of three percent (3%) of a bank’s tier 1 capital in private equity and hedge funds.   (6) it requires a phased-in exclusion of trust preferred securities as a component of tier 1 capital for certain bank holding companies. notably, preferred stock issued to the u.s. treasury under the cpp is excluded from this calculation.   (7) it requires federal regulators to establish new minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for large banks, bank holding companies and systemically important non-banks. the federal banking agencies issued a proposal to implement this authority whereby the capital requirements applied to other insured depository institutions would not apply to the largest insured depository institutions, which had previously been permitted to use their own models to determine their individual risk-based capital requirements. finally, the dodd-frank act requires depository institution holding companies to act as a “source of strength” for their depository institution subsidiaries (previously, this had been a regulatory policy but was not codified into law).   based on the text of the dodd-frank act and the anticipated implementing regulations, including the durbin amendment, it is anticipated that the costs to banks and their holding companies may increase or fee income may decrease significantly which could adversely affect the corporation’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. moreover, compliance obligations will expose us to additional noncompliance risk and could divert management’s focus from the business of banking.   the bureau of consumer financial protection may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of the prohibitions against unfair, deceptive and abusive business practices, which may directly impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the bank.  the bcfp has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the provisions of the 19 table of contents dodd-frank act with respect to financial institutions that offer to consumers covered financial products and services. the bcfp has also been directed to write rules identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service. the concept of what may be considered to be an “abusive” practice is new under the law. the full scope of the impact of this authority has not yet been determined as the implementing rules of the dodd-frank act with respect to the bcfp have not yet been released. moreover, the bank will be supervised and examined by the bcfp for compliance with the bcfp’s regulations and policies. the costs and limitations related to this additional regulatory reporting regimen have yet to be fully determined, although they may be material and the limitations and restrictions that will be placed upon the bank with respect to its consumer product offering and services will also likely produce significant, material effects on the bank’s (and the corporation’s) profitability.   regulatory oversight has increased.  on november 5, 2009, associated bank entered into a memorandum of understanding with the comptroller of the currency, its primary banking regulator. the mou, which is an informal agreement between the bank and the occ, requires the bank to develop, implement, and maintain various processes to improve the bank’s risk management of its loan portfolio and a three-year capital plan providing for maintenance of specified capital levels discussed below, notification to the occ of dividends proposed to be paid to us, and our commitment to act as a primary or contingent source of the bank’s capital. management believes that it has appropriately addressed all of the conditions of the mou. the bank has also agreed with the occ that until the mou is no longer in effect, to maintain minimum capital ratios at specified levels higher than those otherwise required by applicable regulations as follows: tier 1 capital to total average assets (leverage ratio) — 8% and total capital to risk-weighted assets — 12%. at december 31, 2010, the bank’s capital ratios were 9.55% and 16.38%, respectively. as a result of the mou, the bank’s lending activities and capital levels are now subject to increased regulatory oversight. the terms of the mou may affect our liquidity. in connection with the mou, we committed to serve as a primary or contingent source of capital to the bank to support the maintenance of the specified higher minimum capital ratios. the dollar amount of this commitment is uncertain at this time. on december 20, 2009, the bank entered into a written agreement with the occ requiring the bank to take corrective action by may 4, 2010 (or such additional time as the occ may permit), to avoid an order by the occ requiring the bank to divest its financial subsidiary which engages in insurance sales. we believe that the bank has taken corrective steps by such date and it has not received an order of divestiture. we do not believe that a required divestiture of its financial subsidiary would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operations. on april 6, 2010, the corporation entered into a memorandum of understanding (“memorandum”) with the federal reserve bank of chicago (“reserve bank”), its primary banking regulator. the memorandum, which was entered into with the reserve bank following the 2008-2009 supervisory cycle, is an informal agreement between the corporation and the reserve bank. as required, management has submitted plans to strengthen board and management oversight and risk management and for maintaining sufficient capital incorporating stress scenarios. as also required, the corporation has submitted quarterly progress reports, and has obtained, and will in the future continue to obtain, approval prior to payment of dividends and interest or principal payments on subordinated debt, increases in borrowings or guarantees of debt, or the repurchase of common stock. an action by any of our or the bank’s regulators could lead to actions by our or the bank’s other regulators.   we are subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities.  we are subject to federal and state income tax regulations. income tax regulations are often complex and require interpretation. changes in income tax regulations could negatively impact our results of operations. in the normal course of business, we are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments we have made and the businesses in which we have engaged. recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. these tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. the challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. if any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 table of contents we are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility.  from time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. whether customer claims and legal action related to the performance of our fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   we are a defendant in a variety of litigation and other actions, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.  we are a defendant in a class action lawsuit alleging that we unfairly assess and collect overdraft fees which seeks restitution of the overdraft fees, compensatory, consequential and punitive damages, and costs. this case has been consolidated into the overdraft fees multi district litigation pending in the united states district court for the southern district of florida, miami division. we deny all claims and intend to vigorously defend our self. we may be involved from time to time in a variety of other litigation arising out of our business. our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation for any period. in addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all.   external risks   our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the states within which we do business.  our success depends on the general economic conditions of the specific local markets in which we operate. local economic conditions have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services, as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, on the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of our deposit funding sources. a significant decline in general local economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in securities markets, changes in housing market prices, or other factors could impact local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   the earnings of financial services companies are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions.  our operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the united states and abroad. these conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the united states economy, all of which are beyond our control. a deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values, and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.   our earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies.  the policies of the federal reserve impact us significantly. the federal reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the united states. its policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold. those policies determine to a significant extent our cost of funds for lending and investing. changes in those policies are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. federal reserve policies can also affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. for example, a tightening of the money supply by the federal reserve could reduce the demand for a borrower’s products and services. this could adversely affect the borrower’s earnings and ability to repay its loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.   we operate in a highly competitive industry and market area.  we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. such competitors primarily include national, regional, and internet banks within the various markets in which we 21 table of contents operate. we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, and other financial intermediaries. the financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory, and technological changes and continued consolidation. banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking. also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can.   our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:     •  the ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards, and safe, sound assets;     •  the ability to expand our market position;     •  the scope, relevance, and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands;     •  the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors;     •  customer satisfaction with our level of service; and     •  industry and general economic trends.   failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions.  technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. for example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. the loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other external events could significantly impact our business.  severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   strategic risks   our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively.  our business strategy includes significant growth plans. we intend to continue pursuing a profitable growth strategy. our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. we cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations and 22 table of contents could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. also, if we grow more slowly than anticipated, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.   our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. while we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or growth will be successfully managed.   acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value.  we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. as a result, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. we seek merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar, have experienced management, and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale, or expanded services.   acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves potential adverse impact to our financial results and various other risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:     •  difficulty in estimating the value of the target company;     •  payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute our tangible book value and earnings per share in the short and long term;     •  potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company;     •  exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;     •  there may be volatility in reported income as goodwill impairment losses could occur irregularly and in varying amounts;     •  difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company;     •  inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits;     •  potential disruption to our business;     •  potential diversion of our management’s time and attention;     •  the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; and     •  potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company.   failure to keep pace with technological change could adversely affect our business.  the financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.   new lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risk.  from time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. in developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market 23 table of contents preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business and/or a new product or service. furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business and/or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   reputation risks   negative publicity could damage our reputation.  reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending or foreclosure practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. because we conduct most of our business under the “associated bank” brand, negative public opinion about one business could affect our other businesses.   unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business.  as part of our business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information on our behalf and on behalf of other third parties. despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by us or by our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risk of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business.   ethics or conflict of interest issues could damage our reputation.  we have established a code of conduct and related policies and procedures to address the ethical conduct of business and to avoid potential conflicts of interest. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based, in part, on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. any failure or circumvention of our related controls and procedures or failure to comply with the established code of conduct and related party transaction policies and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and/or financial condition.   liquidity risks   liquidity is essential to our businesses.  our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or unforeseen outflows of cash. this situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. a reduction or an anticipated reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations.   we rely on management fees and dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our revenue.  we are a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and other subsidiaries. a substantial portion of our revenue comes from management fees and dividends from our subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock, and to pay interest and principal on our debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of management fees and dividends that our national bank subsidiary and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay to us. also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. in the event our national bank subsidiary is unable to pay management fees and dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations, or pay dividends on our common and preferred stock. the inability to receive management fees and dividends from our national bank subsidiary could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 24 table of contents interest rate risks   we are subject to interest rate risk.  our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the federal reserve. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities; and (iii) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets. if the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.   although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, including the limited use of derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet.   the impact of interest rates on our mortgage banking business can have a significant impact on revenues.  changes in interest rates can impact our mortgage related revenues. a decline in mortgage rates generally increases the demand for mortgage loans as borrowers refinance, but also generally leads to accelerated payoffs. conversely, in a constant or increasing rate environment, we would expect fewer loans to be refinanced and a decline in payoffs. although we use models to assess the impact of interest rates on mortgage related revenues, the estimates of revenues produced by these models are dependent on estimates and assumptions of future loan demand, prepayment speeds and other factors which may differ from actual subsequent experience.   changes in interest rates could also reduce the value of our mortgage servicing rights and earnings.  we have a portfolio of mortgage servicing rights. a mortgage servicing right (“msr”) is the right to service a mortgage loan (i.e, collect principal, interest, escrow amounts, etc.) for a fee. we acquire msrs when we originate mortgage loans and keep the servicing rights after we sell or securitize the loans or when we purchase the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. we carry msrs at the lower of amortized cost or estimated fair value. fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers.   changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and, thus, fair value. when interest rates fall, borrowers are more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. as the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our msrs can decrease. each quarter we evaluate our msrs for impairment based on the difference between carrying amount and fair value at quarter end. if temporary impairment exists, we establish a valuation allowance through a charge to earnings for the amount the carrying amount exceeds fair value. we also evaluate our msrs for other-than-temporary impairment. if we determine that other-than-temporary impairment exists, we will recognize a direct write-down of the carrying value of the msrs.   risks related to an investment in our common stock   our stock price can be volatile.  stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to sell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:     •  actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations or financial condition;     •  recommendations by securities analysts;     •  operating results and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;     •  news reports relating to trends, concerns, and other issues in the financial services industry; 25 table of contents     •  perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors;     •  new technology used or services offered by competitors;     •  significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;     •  failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions;     •  changes in government regulations; and     •  geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.   general market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results.   there may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  we are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. the issuance of additional shares of common stock or the issuance of convertible securities would dilute the ownership interest of our existing common shareholders. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of an equity offering, as well as other sales of a large block of shares of our common stock or similar securities in the market after an equity offering, or the perception that such sales could occur.   we are highly regulated, and our regulators could require us to raise additional common equity in the future. both we and our regulators perform a variety of analyses of our assets, including the preparation of stress case scenarios, and as a result of those assessments we could determine, or our regulators could require us, to raise additional capital.   in addition, the exercise of the warrant issued to the ust under tarp would dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. see also “liquidity” in part ii, item , “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations,” and note 9, “stockholders’ equity,” of the notes to consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8, “financial statements and supplementary data,” for additional information on the common stock warrants issued to the ust.   we may eliminate dividends on our common stock.  although we have historically paid a quarterly cash dividend to the holders of our common stock, holders of our common stock are not entitled to receive dividends. downturns in the domestic and global economies could cause our board of directors to consider, among other things, the elimination of dividends paid on our common stock. this could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. because of our agreements with the ust as part of the cpp under the tarp, prior to november 21, 2011, or the date on which the ust’s senior preferred stock investment has been fully redeemed or transferred, if earlier, we may not pay quarterly dividends on our common stock greater than $0.32 per share without the ust’s consent. in addition, we may not pay dividends on our common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods are fully paid on our outstanding preferred stock issued to the ust. furthermore, as a bank holding company, our ability to pay dividends is subject to the guidelines of the federal reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends, and we are required to consult with the federal reserve before declaring or paying any dividends. dividends also may be limited as a result of safety and soundness considerations.   our agreements with the ust under the cpp impose restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase our common stock or preferred stock and access the equity capital market.  in november 2008, we issued preferred stock and a warrant to purchase our common stock to the ust under tarp. prior to november 21, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the preferred stock or the ust has transferred all of the preferred stock to a third party, the consent of the ust will be required for us to, among other things, pay a quarterly common stock dividend greater than $0.32 per share or repurchase our common stock or other preferred stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based employee compensation awards). we have also granted registration rights and offering facilitation rights to the ust 26 table of contents pursuant to which we have agreed to lock-up periods in connection with an offering by the ust of our securities during which we would be unable to issue equity securities.   the common stock is equity and is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and preferred stock and effectively subordinated to all the indebtedness and other non-common equity claims against our subsidiaries. shares of the common stock are equity interests in us and do not constitute indebtedness. as such, shares of the common stock will rank junior to all of our indebtedness and to other non-equity claims against us and our assets available to satisfy claims against us, including our liquidation. additionally, holders of our common stock are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of holders of our outstanding preferred stock issued to the ust under tarp. our board of directors is authorized to issue additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the holders of our common stock, and we are permitted to incur additional debt. upon liquidation, lenders and holders of our debt securities and preferred stock would receive distributions of our available assets prior to holders of our common stock. furthermore, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon any of our subsidiaries’ liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including holders of any preferred stock of that subsidiary.   our articles of incorporation, as amended, amended and restated bylaws, and certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect.  provisions of our articles of incorporation, as amended, amended and restated bylaws, and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. the combination of these provisions may prohibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   an investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit.  our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the fdic, any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private entity. an investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “risk factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. as a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment.   an entity holding as little as a 5% interest in our outstanding common stock could, under certain circumstances, be subject to regulation as a “bank holding company.”  an entity (including a “group” composed of natural persons) owning or controlling with the power to vote 25% or more of our outstanding common stock, or 5% or more if such holder otherwise exercises a “controlling influence” over us, may be subject to regulation as a “bank holding company” in accordance with the bhc act. in addition, (1) any bank holding company or foreign bank with a u.s. presence may be required to obtain the approval of the federal reserve under the bhc act to acquire or retain 5% or more of our outstanding common stock, and (2) any person not otherwise defined as a company by the bhc act and its implementing regulations may be required to obtain the approval of the federal reserve under the change in bank control act to acquire or retain 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. becoming a bank holding company imposes certain statutory and regulatory restrictions and obligations, such as providing managerial and financial strength for its bank subsidiaries. regulation as a bank holding company could require the holder to divest all or a portion of the holder’s investment in our common stock or such nonbanking investments that may be deemed impermissible or incompatible with bank holding company status, such as a material investment in a company unrelated to banking.   item 1b.   unresolved