item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this 10-k, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from what we projected. the rates we charge our customers are subject to regulation. if we are unable to obtain government approval of our requests for rate increases, or if approved rate increases are untimely or inadequate to recover and earn a return on our capital investments, to recover expenses or taxes, or to take into account changes in water usage, our profitability may suffer. the rates we charge our customers are subject to approval by regulatory commissions or similar regulatory bodies in the states in which we operate. we file rate increase requests, from time to time, to recover our investments in utility plant and expenses. our ability to maintain and meet our financial objectives is dependent upon the recovery of, and return on, our capital investments and expenses through the rates we charge our customers. once a rate increase petition is filed with a regulatory commission, the ensuing administrative and hearing process may be lengthy and costly, and the cost to the company may not always be fully recoverable. the timing of our rate increase requests are therefore partially dependent upon the estimated cost of the administrative process in relation to the investments and expenses that we hope to recover through the rate increase to the extent approved. in addition, the amount or frequency of rate increases may be decreased or lengthened as a result of changes in income tax laws regarding tax-basis depreciation as it applies to our capital expenditures or qualifying repair tax deductible expenditures. we can provide no assurances that any future rate increase request will be approved by the appropriate state regulatory commission; and, if approved, we cannot guarantee that these rate increases will be granted in a timely or sufficient manner to cover the investments, expenses, and return for which we initially sought the rate increase.   14 table of contents in some jurisdictions, we may seek authorization to bill our utility customers in accordance with a rate filing that is pending before the respective regulatory commission. furthermore, some regulatory commissions authorize the use of expense deferrals and amortization in order to provide for an impact on our operating income by an amount that approximates the requested amount in a rate request. the additional revenue billed and collected prior to the final ruling is subject to refund based on the outcome of the ruling. the revenue recognized and the expenses deferred by us reflect an estimate as to the final outcome of the ruling. if the request is denied completely or in part, we could be required to refund some or all of the revenue billed to date, and write-off some or all of the deferred expenses. the final determination of our income tax liability may be materially different from our income tax provision. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. our calculation of the provision for income taxes is subject to our interpretation of applicable business tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. in addition, our income tax returns are subject to periodic examination by the internal revenue service and other taxing authorities. in december 2012, aqua pennsylvania changed its tax method of accounting to permit the expensing of certain utility asset improvement costs that were previously being capitalized and depreciated for tax purposes. our determination of what qualifies as a capital cost versus a repair expense tax deduction is subject to subsequent adjustment and may impact the income tax benefits that have been recognized. although we believe our income tax estimates are appropriate, there is no assurance that the final determination of our income tax liability will not be materially different; either higher or lower, from what is reflected in our income tax provision. in the event we are assessed additional income taxes, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. our business requires significant capital expenditures that are dependent on our ability to secure appropriate funding. disruptions in the capital and credit markets may limit our access to capital. if we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, or if the cost of borrowing increases, it may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and our ability to pay dividends. our business is capital intensive. in addition to the capital required to fund our growth through acquisition strategy, on an annual basis, we spend significant sums for additions to or replacement of property, plant and equipment. we obtain funds for our capital expenditures from operations, contributions and advances by developers and others, equity issuances and debt issuances. we have paid common dividends consecutively for 68 years and our board of directors recognizes the value that our common shareholders place on both our historical payment record and on our future common dividend payments. our ability to maintain and meet our financial objectives is dependent upon the availability of adequate capital, and we may not be able to access the debt and equity markets on favorable terms or at all. the u.s. credit and liquidity crisis of 2008 and 2009 caused substantial volatility in capital markets, including credit markets and the banking industry, generally reduced the availability of credit from financing sources, and could re-occur in the future. if in the future, our credit facilities are not renewed or our short-term borrowings are called for repayment, we would have to seek alternative financing sources; however, there can be no assurance that these alternative financing sources would be available on terms acceptable to us. in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we may need to take steps to conserve cash by reducing our capital expenditures or dividend payments and our ability to pursue acquisitions that we may rely on for future growth could be impaired. the reduction in capital expenditures may result in reduced potential earnings growth, affect our ability to meet environmental laws and regulations, and limit our ability to improve or expand our utility systems to the level we believe appropriate. there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain sufficient capital in the future on reasonable terms and conditions for expansion, construction and maintenance. in addition, delays in completing major capital projects could delay the recovery of the capital expenditures associated with such projects through rates. if the cost of borrowing increases, we might not be able to recover increases in our cost of capital through rates. the inability to recover higher borrowing costs through rates, or the regulatory lag associated with the time that it takes to begin recovery, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.   15 table of contents our inability to comply with debt covenants under our credit facilities could result in prepayment obligations. we are obligated to comply with debt covenants under some of our loan and debt agreements. failure to comply with covenants under our credit facilities could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay or finance these borrowings before their due date, limit future borrowings, cause cross default issues, and increase borrowing costs. if we are forced to repay or refinance (on less favorable terms) these borrowings our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by increased costs and rates. general economic conditions may affect our financial condition and results of operations. a general economic downturn may lead to a number of impacts on our business that may affect our financial condition and results of operations. such impacts may include: a reduction in discretionary and recreational water use by our residential water customers, particularly during the summer months when such discretionary usage is normally at its highest; a decline in usage by industrial and commercial customers as a result of decreased business activity; an increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay or delays in paying their utility bills, or an increase in customer bankruptcies, which may lead to higher bad debt expense and reduced cash flow; a lower natural customer growth rate due to a decline in new housing starts; and a decline in the number of active customers due to housing vacancies or abandonments. general economic turmoil may also lead to an investment market downturn, which may result in our pension plans’ asset market values suffering a decline and significant volatility. a decline in our pension plans’ asset market values could increase our required cash contributions to these plans and pension expense in subsequent years. federal and state environmental laws and regulations impose substantial compliance requirements on our operations. our operating costs could be significantly increased in order to comply with new or stricter regulatory standards imposed by federal and state environmental agencies. our water and wastewater services are governed by various federal and state environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, including the federal safe drinking water act, the clean water act and similar state laws, and federal and state regulations issued under these laws by the epa and state environmental regulatory agencies. these laws and regulations establish, among other things, criteria and standards for drinking water and for discharges into the waters of the u.s. and states. pursuant to these laws, we are required to obtain various environmental permits from environmental regulatory agencies for our operations. we cannot assure you that we will be at all times in total compliance with these laws, regulations and permits. if we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators and/or such violations or noncompliance could result in civil suits. environmental laws and regulations are complex and change frequently. these laws, and the enforcement thereof, have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to comply with these laws and our permits, it is possible that new or stricter standards could be imposed that will require additional capital expenditures or raise our operating costs. although these expenditures and costs may be recovered in the form of higher rates, there can be no assurance that the various state regulatory commissions or similar regulatory bodies that govern our business would approve rate increases to enable us to recover such expenditures and costs. in summary, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with, or discharging liability under, current and future environmental and health and safety laws will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.   16 table of contents federal and state environmental laws, regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, and volatility in natural gas and crude oil prices, could result in reduced demand for raw water utilized in hydraulic fracturing and adversely affect our joint venture business, financial condition, or results of operations. we have invested in a joint venture for the construction and operation of a private pipeline system to supply raw water to certain natural gas drilling operations for hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing involves the injection under pressure of water, along with other materials such as sand, into prospective rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. in general, the environmental community has taken an interest in monitoring and understanding the potential environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing. in the event the use of hydraulic fracturing is limited through regulation, our investment in the raw water pipeline may be adversely impacted in the event that demand for raw water is reduced. historically, natural gas and crude oil prices have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile. a decrease in demand for natural gas, due to price volatility, could result in reduced demand for raw water utilized in hydraulic fracturing. in the event hydraulic fracturing is limited, due to a reduction in demand for natural gas, our investment in the raw water pipeline may be adversely impacted in the event that demand for raw water is reduced. our business is impacted by weather conditions and is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could adversely affect demand for our water service and our revenues and earnings. demand for our water during the warmer months is generally greater than during cooler months due primarily to additional requirements for water in connection with irrigation systems, swimming pools, cooling systems and other outside water use. throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, demand will vary with temperature, rainfall levels and rainfall frequency. in the event that temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than normal, if there is more rainfall than normal, or rainfall is more frequent than normal, the demand for our water may decrease and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. decreased residential customer water consumption as a result of water conservation efforts may adversely affect demand for our water service and may reduce our revenues and earnings. we believe there have been general declines in water usage per residential customer as a result of an increase in conservation awareness, and the structural impact of an increased use of more efficient plumbing fixtures and appliances. these gradual, long-term changes are normally taken into account by the regulatory commissions in setting rates, whereas short-term changes in water usage, if significant, may not be fully reflected in the rates we charge. we are dependent upon the revenue generated from rates charged to our residential customers for the volume of water used. if we are unable to obtain future rate increases to offset decreased residential customer water consumption to cover our investments, expenses, and return for which we initially sought the rate increase, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. drought conditions and government imposed water use restrictions may impact our ability to serve our current and future customers, and may impact our customers’ use of our water, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we depend on an adequate water supply to meet the present and future demands of our customers. drought conditions could interfere with our sources of water supply and could adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our existing and future customers. an interruption in our water supply could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. moreover, governmental restrictions on water usage during drought conditions may result in a decreased demand for our water, even if our water supplies are sufficient to serve our customers during these drought conditions, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.   17 table of contents an important element of our growth strategy is the acquisition of water and wastewater systems. any future acquisitions we decide to undertake may involve risks. further, competition for acquisition opportunities from other regulated utilities, governmental entities, and strategic and financial buyers may hinder our ability to grow our business. an important element of our growth strategy is the acquisition and integration of water and wastewater systems in order to broaden our current, and move into new, service areas. we will not be able to acquire other businesses if we cannot identify suitable acquisition opportunities or reach mutually agreeable terms with acquisition candidates. it is our intent, when practical, to integrate any businesses we acquire with our existing operations. the negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of our management’s time and resources. future acquisitions by us could result in:     •   dilutive issuances of our equity securities;     •   incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, and environmental liabilities;     •   unknown capital expenditures;     •   failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting;     •   recording goodwill and other intangible assets for which we may never realize their full value and may result in an asset impairment that may negatively affect our results of operations;     •   fluctuations in quarterly results;     •   other acquisition-related expenses; and     •   exposure to unknown or unexpected risks and liabilities. some or all of these items could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to finance our business and to comply with regulatory requirements. the businesses we acquire in the future may not achieve sales and profitability that would justify our investment, and any difficulties we encounter in the integration process, including in the integration of processes necessary for internal control and financial reporting, could interfere with our operations, reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our internal controls. we compete with governmental entities, other regulated utilities, and strategic and financial buyers, for acquisition opportunities. as consolidation becomes more prevalent in the water and wastewater industries and competition for acquisitions increases, the prices for suitable acquisition candidates may increase to unacceptable levels and limit our ability to grow through acquisitions. in addition, our competitors may impede our growth by purchasing water utilities near our existing operations, thereby preventing us from acquiring them. competing governmental entities, utilities, environmental or social activist groups, and strategic and financial buyers have challenged, and may in the future challenge, our efforts to acquire new companies and/or service territories. our growth could be hindered if we are not able to compete effectively for new companies and/or service territories with other companies or strategic and financial buyers that have lower costs of operations or that can submit more attractive bids. in addition, as consolidation becomes more prevalent in the water and wastewater industries and competition for acquisitions increases, the prices for suitable acquisition candidates may increase to unacceptable levels and limit our ability to grow through acquisitions. any of these risks may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.   18 table of contents we employ a portfolio rationalization strategy to focus our operations in areas where we have critical mass and economic growth potential and to divest operations where limited customer growth opportunities exist or where we are unable to achieve favorable operating results or a return on equity that we consider acceptable. dispositions we decide to undertake may involve risks which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. in the event we determine a division, utility system or business should be sold, we may be unable to reach terms that are agreeable to us or be able to find a suitable buyer. if the business is part of our regulated operations, we may face additional challenges in obtaining regulatory approval for the disposition, and the regulatory approval obtained may include restrictive conditions. we may be required to continue to hold or assume certain residual liabilities with respect to the business sold. the negotiation of potential dispositions as well as the efforts to divest the acquired business could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of our management’s time and resources. any of these risks may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our water and wastewater systems may be subject to condemnations or other methods of taking by governmental entities. in the states where our subsidiaries operate, it is possible that portions of our subsidiaries’ operations could be acquired by municipal governments by one or more of the following methods:     •   eminent domain;     •   the right of purchase given or reserved by a municipality or political subdivision when the original franchise was granted; and     •   the right of purchase given or reserved under the law of the state in which the subsidiary was incorporated or from which it received its permit given or reserved by a municipality or political subdivision when the original franchise was granted. the price to be paid upon such an acquisition by the municipal government is usually determined in accordance with applicable law governing the taking of lands and other property under eminent domain. in other instances, the price may be negotiated, fixed by appraisers selected by the parties or computed in accordance with a formula prescribed in the law of the state or in the particular franchise or charter. we believe that our operating subsidiaries will be entitled to receive fair market value for any assets that are condemned. however, there is no assurance that the fair market value received for assets condemned will be in excess of book value. in a limited number of instances, in one of our southern states where there are municipally-owned water or wastewater systems near our operating divisions, the municipally-owned system may either have water distribution or wastewater collection mains that are located adjacent to our division’s mains or may construct new mains that parallel our mains. in these circumstances, on occasion, the municipally-owned system may attempt to take over the customers who are connected to our mains, resulting in our mains becoming surplus or underutilized without compensation. contamination of our water supply may result in disruption in our services and litigation which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our water supplies are subject to possible contamination, including: contamination from naturally-occurring compounds; chemicals in groundwater systems; pollution resulting from man-made sources, such as man-made organic chemicals; pharmaceuticals and personal care products; and possible deliberate or terrorist attacks. in the event that a water supply is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the use of that water supply until we are able to substitute, where feasible, the flow of water from an uncontaminated water source. in addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat the contaminated source through expansion of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. if we are unable to substitute water supply from an uncontaminated water source, or to adequately treat the contaminated water source in a cost-effective manner, there may be an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the costs we incur to decontaminate a water source or an underground water system could be significant and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and may not be recoverable in rates. we could also be held liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to contamination and/or hazardous substances in our water supplies or other environmental damage. we may incur costs to defend our position even if we are not liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to contamination and/or hazardous substances in our water supplies or other environmental damage. our insurance policies may not be sufficient to cover the costs of these claims.   19 table of contents in addition to the potential pollution of our water supply as described above, we maintain security measures at our facilities and have heightened employee awareness of potential threats to our water systems. we have and will continue to bear increases in costs for security precautions to protect our facilities, operations, and supplies, most of which have been recoverable under state regulatory policies. while the costs of increases in security, including capital expenditures, may be significant, we expect these costs to continue to be recoverable in water and wastewater rates. despite our security measures, we may not be in a position to control the outcome of terrorist events, or other attacks on our water systems should they occur. wastewater operations entail significant risks and may impose significant costs. wastewater collection and treatment and septage pumping and sludge hauling involve various unique risks. if collection or treatment systems fail or do not operate properly, or if there is a spill, untreated or partially treated wastewater could discharge onto property or into nearby streams and rivers, causing various damages and injuries, including environmental damage. these risks are most acute during periods of substantial rainfall or flooding, which are the main causes of sewer overflow and system failure. liabilities resulting from such damages and injuries could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the failure of, or the requirement to repair, upgrade or dismantle, any of our dams or reservoirs may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. several of our water systems include impounding dams and reservoirs of various sizes. although we believe our dams are structurally sound and well-maintained, the failure of a dam could result in significant downstream property damage or injuries for which we may be liable. we periodically inspect our dams and purchase liability insurance to cover such risks, but depending on the nature of the downstream damage and cause of the failure, the policy limits of insurance coverage may not be sufficient. a dam failure could also result in damage to, or disruption of, our water treatment and pumping facilities that are often located downstream from our dams and reservoirs. significant damage to these facilities could affect our ability to provide water to our customers and, consequently, our results of operations until the facilities and a sufficient raw water impoundment can be restored. the estimated costs to maintain our dams are included in our capital budget projections and, although such costs to date have been recoverable in rates, there can be no assurance that rate increases will be granted in a timely or sufficient manner to recover such costs in the future, if at all. any failure of our water and wastewater treatment plants, network of water and wastewater pipes, or water reservoirs could result in losses and damages that may affect our reputation and our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operating subsidiaries treat water and wastewater, distribute water and collect wastewater through an extensive network of pipes, and store water in reservoirs. a failure of a major treatment plant, pipe, or reservoir could result in injuries and property damage for which we may be liable. the failure of a major treatment plant, pipe, or reservoir may also result in the need to shut down some facilities or parts of our network in order to conduct repairs. such failures and shutdowns may limit our ability to supply water in sufficient quality and quantities to our customers or collect and treat wastewater in accordance with standards prescribed by governmental regulators, including state regulatory commissions, with jurisdiction over our operations, and may adversely affect our reputation and our business, financial condition, and results of operations. any business interruption or other losses might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance in the future at acceptable rates.   20 table of contents work stoppages and other labor relations matters could adversely affect our operating results. approximately 34% of our workforce is unionized under 14 labor contracts with labor unions, which expire over several years. in light of rising costs for healthcare and retirement benefits, contract negotiations in the future may be difficult. we are subject to a risk of work stoppages and other labor actions as we negotiate with the unions to address these issues, which could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot assure you that issues with our labor forces will be resolved favorably to us in the future or that we will not experience work stoppages. significant or prolonged disruptions in the supply of important goods or services from third parties could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are dependent on a continuing flow of important goods and services from suppliers for our water and wastewater businesses. a disruption or prolonged delays in obtaining important supplies or services, such as maintenance services, purchased water, chemicals, electricity, or other materials, could adversely affect our water or wastewater services and our ability to operate in compliance with all regulatory requirements, which could have a significant effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in certain circumstances, we rely on third parties to provide certain important services (such as certain customer bill print and mail activities or utility service operations in some of our divisions) and a disruption in these services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. some possible reasons for a delay or disruption in the supply of important goods and services include:     •   our suppliers may not provide materials that meet our specifications in sufficient quantities;     •   our suppliers may provide us with water that does not meet applicable quality standards or is contaminated;     •   our suppliers may face production delays due to natural disasters, strikes, lock-outs, or other such actions;     •   one or more suppliers could make strategic changes in the lines of products and services they offer; and     •   some of our suppliers, such as small companies, may be more likely to experience financial and operational difficulties than larger, well-established companies, because of their limited financial and other resources. as a result of any of these factors, we may be required to find alternative suppliers for the materials and services on which we rely. accordingly, we may experience delays in obtaining appropriate materials and services on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities from such alternative suppliers at a reasonable price, which could interrupt services to our customers and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are increasingly dependent on the continuous and reliable operation of our information technology systems, and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business. we rely on our information technology systems in connection with the operation of our business, especially with respect to customer service and billing, accounting and, in some cases, the monitoring and operation of our treatment, storage and pumping facilities. in addition, we rely on our systems to track our utility assets and to manage maintenance and construction projects, materials and supplies, and our human resource functions. a loss of these systems, or major problems with the operation of these systems, could adversely affect our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. although we do not believe that our systems are at a materially greater risk of cyber security incidents than other similar organizations, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from:     •   power loss, computer systems failures, and internet, telecommunications or data network failures;   21 table of contents   •   operator negligence or improper operation by, or supervision of, employees;     •   physical and electronic loss of data;     •   computer viruses;     •   intentional security breaches, hacking, denial of service actions, misappropriation of data and similar events; and     •   hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters. such cyber security incidents may result in the loss or compromise of customer, financial or operational data, disruption of billing, collections or normal field service activities, disruption of electronic monitoring and control of operational systems and delays in financial reporting and other normal management functions. possible impacts associated with a cyber security incident may include remediation costs related to lost, stolen, or compromised data, repairs to data processing systems, increased cyber security protection costs, adverse effects on our compliance with regulatory and environmental laws and regulation, including standards for drinking water, litigation and reputational damage. we depend significantly on the services of the members of our management team, and the departure of any of those persons could cause our operating results to suffer. our success depends significantly on the continued individual and collective contributions of our management team. the loss of the services of any member of our management team or the inability to hire and retain experienced management personnel could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. climate change laws and regulations may be adopted that could require compliance with greenhouse gas emissions standards and other climate change initiatives. additional capital expenditures could be required and our operating costs could be increased in order to comply with new regulatory standards imposed by federal and state environmental agencies. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators, and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases (ghg), including carbon dioxide. climate change legislation has been introduced from time to time in congress, and if enacted, would limit ghg emissions from covered entities through a “cap and trade” system to reduce the quantity of national ghg emissions in accordance with established goals and timelines. possible new climate change laws and regulations, if enacted, may require us to monitor and/or change our utility operations. ghg emissions occur at several points across our utility operations, notably our use of service vehicles and energy. it is possible that new standards could be imposed that will require additional capital expenditures or raise our operating costs. because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. although these expenditures and costs may be recovered in the form of higher rates, there can be no assurance that the various state regulatory commissions or similar regulatory bodies that govern our business would approve rate increases to enable us to recover such expenditures and costs. we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with new standards or laws will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.   item 1b. unresolved