item 1a.  risk factors   our future operating results may vary substantially from anticipated results due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. the following discussion highlights some of these factors and the possible impact of these factors on future results of operations. if any of the following factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed.  in that case, the value of our common stock could decline substantially.   risks relating to our business and industry   we have a history of operating losses and may not achieve profitability sufficient to generate a positive return on shareholders’ investment.   we had a net loss of $12.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, a net loss of $15.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 and net income of $14.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2008.  our future profitability will depend on several factors, including:     · our receipt of milestone payments and royalties relating to products developed and commercialized under our license agreement with king (as more fully described under the caption “item 1. business — king agreement”); and     · the receipt of fda approval and the successful commercialization by king and other future licensees (if any) of products utilizing our aversion® and impede™ technologies without infringing the patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. we cannot assure you that we will ever have a product approved for commercialization by the fda or that we or our licensees will bring any product to market. we recognized revenues of $3.3 and $3.8 million in the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, from payments received under the king agreement.  however, we have not yet generated any revenues from aversion® technology product sales.  even if we succeed in commercializing one or more of our aversion® technology product candidates, we expect to continue using cash reserves for the foreseeable future. our expenses may increase in the foreseeable future as a result of continued research and development of additional product candidates, maintaining and expanding the scope of our intellectual property, commercializing our impede™ pse product, and hiring of additional research and development staff.     21     we will need to generate revenues from direct product sales or indirectly from royalties on sales to achieve and maintain profitability. if we cannot successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize our product candidates licensed to king under the king agreement or other product candidates under similar license agreements anticipated to be negotiated and executed with other pharmaceutical companies, of which no assurance can be given, we will not be able to generate such royalty revenues or achieve future profitability. our failure to achieve or maintain profitability would have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock.   we must rely on current cash reserves, technology licensing fees and third party financing to fund operations.   pending the receipt of milestone payments and royalties, if any, under the king agreement or under similar license agreements anticipated to be negotiated and executed with other pharmaceutical companies, of which no assurance can be given, we must rely on our current cash reserves, revenues from sales of our impede™ pse product, if any, and third-party financing to fund operations and product development activities. no assurance can be given that current cash reserves or revenues from impede™ pse product sales will be sufficient to fund the continued operations and development of our product candidates until such time as we generate additional revenue from the king agreement or similar license agreements anticipated to be negotiated and executed with the other pharmaceutical companies.  moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in raising additional financing or, if funding is obtained, that such funding will be sufficient to fund operations until product candidates utilizing our aversion® and impede™ technologies may be commercialized.   our product candidates are unproven and may not be approved by the fda.   we are committing a majority of our resources to the development of acurox® tablets  and other product candidates utilizing our aversion® and impede™ technologies.  there can be no assurance that the fda will ultimately approve acurox® tablets or any other product candidate utilizing aversion® technology for commercial distribution.  further there can be no assurance that other product candidates developed using aversion® technology or impede™ technology will achieve the targeted end points in the required clinical studies or perform as intended in other pre-clinical and clinical studies or lead to a nda submission or filing acceptance. our failure to successfully develop and achieve final fda approval of a product candidate utilizing aversion® technology will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.   even if the fda approves acurox® tablets  for commercial distribution, if acurox® tablets  are not approved with labeling describing its abuse deterrent features, we will be unable to refer to the abuse deterrent characteristics of acurox® to promote the product.   our strategy for acurox® tablets depends upon our ability to distinguish acurox® tablets from other immediate release oxycodone hcl containing products based primarily on abuse deterrent features.  as with all of our product candidates utilizing aversion® technology, even if acurox® tablets are approved by the fda, our failure to achieve approval of product labeling that sufficiently differentiates acurox® tablets from other immediate release oxycodone hcl containing tablets may adversely affect our business and results of operations. the fda has publicly stated that explicit indications or claims of abuse deterrence will not be permitted unless such indications or claims are supported by double blind controlled clinical studies demonstrating an actual reduction in product abuse by patients or drug abusers. because the cost, time and practicality of designing and implementing clinical studies adequate to support explicit claims of abuse deterrence are prohibitive, we are not pursuing and have not conducted the clinical trials necessary to include an explicit product label claim of abuse deterrence.  instead, we intend to rely on certain clinical and laboratory studies to support the inclusion of information about the abuse deterrent features of acurox® tablets to support promotion by our licensee(s) of the product.  we intend to include in the product labels of our product candidates both a physical description of the abuse deterrent features and information from laboratory and clinical studies designed to simulate the relative difficulty of abusing our product candidates. however, the extent to which such information will be included in the fda approved product label will be the subject of our discussions with, and agreement by, the fda as part of the nda review process for each of our product candidates.  the outcome of those discussions with the fda will determine whether we will be able to market our product candidates with labeling that sufficiently differentiates them from other products that have comparable therapeutic profiles. if the fda does not approve the acurox® tablet labeling with such information, our licensee will not be able to promote acurox® tablets based on its abuse deterrent features, may not be able to differentiate acurox® tablets from other oxycodone hcl containing immediate release products, and may not be able to charge a premium above the price of such other products which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. because fda closely regulates promotional materials and other promotional activities, even if fda initially approves product labeling that includes a description of the abuse deterrent characteristics of our product, fda may object to our or our licensee’s marketing claims and product advertising campaigns.     22      relying on third party contract research organizations ("cros") may result in delays in our pre-clinical, clinical or laboratory testing. if pre-clinical, clinical or laboratory testing for our product candidates are unsuccessful or delayed, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines.   to obtain fda approval to commercially sell and distribute in the u.s. any of our prescription product candidates, we or our licensees must submit to the fda an nda demonstrating, among other things, that the product candidate is safe and effective for its intended use. this demonstration requires significant testing. as we do not possess the resources or employ all the personnel necessary to conduct such testing, we rely on cros for the majority of this testing with our product candidates. as a result, we have less control over our development program than if we performed the testing entirely on our own. third parties may not perform their responsibilities on our anticipated schedule. delays in our development programs could significantly increase our product development costs and delay product commercialization.   the commencement of clinical trials with our product candidates may be delayed for several reasons, including but not limited to delays in demonstrating sufficient pre-clinical safety required to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial, reaching agreements on acceptable terms with prospective licensees, manufacturing and quality assurance release of a sufficient supply of a product candidate for use in our clinical trials and/or obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective clinical site. once a clinical trial has begun, it may be delayed, suspended or terminated by us or regulatory authorities due to several factors, including ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials, failure to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements, lower than anticipated recruitment or retention rate of patients in clinical trials, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by regulatory authorities, the imposition of a clinical hold by fda, lack of adequate funding to continue clinical trials, and/or negative or unanticipated results of clinical trials.   clinical trials required by the fda for commercial approval may not demonstrate safety or efficacy of our product candidates. success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not assure that later clinical trials will be successful. results of later clinical trials may not replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing. even if the results of our pivotal phase iii clinical trials are positive, we and our licensees may have to commit substantial time and additional resources to conduct further pre-clinical and clinical studies before we or our licensees can submit ndas or obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates.   clinical trials are expensive and at times difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. further, if participating subjects or patients in clinical studies suffer drug-related adverse reactions during the course of such trials, or if we, our licensees or the fda believes that participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, we or our licensees may suspend the clinical trials. failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we or our licensees could encounter problems causing the abandonment of clinical trials or the need to conduct additional clinical studies, relating to a product candidate.   even if our clinical trials and laboratory testing are completed as planned, their results may not support commercially viable product label claims. the clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for their intended use. such failure may cause us or our licensees to abandon a product candidate and may delay the development of other product candidates. we have no commercial manufacturing capacity and rely on third-party contract manufacturers to produce our commercial quantities. we do not have the facilities, equipment or personnel to manufacture commercial quantities of our product candidates and therefore must rely on our licensees or other qualified third party contract manufactures with appropriate facilities and equipment to contract manufacture commercial quantities of products utilizing our aversion® and impede™ technologies.  these licensees and third party contract manufacturers are also subject to cgmp regulations.  any performance failure on the part of our licensees or contract manufacturers could delay commercialization of any approved products, depriving us of potential product revenue. our drug candidates, including our impede™ pse tablets, require precise, high quality manufacturing.  failure by our contract manufacturers to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in testing or delivery, cost overruns, or other problems that could materially adversely affect our business.  contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control, and quality assurance.  these manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the fda and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cgmp and other applicable government regulations; however, we do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards.     23     if for some reason our contract manufacturers cannot perform as agreed, we may be required to replace them.  although we believe there are a number of potential replacements, we may incur added costs and delays in identifying and qualifying any such replacements.  in addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our drug candidates.   we or our licensees may not obtain required fda approval; the fda approval process is time-consuming and expensive.   the development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation in the united states and other countries. satisfaction of all regulatory requirements typically takes years, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate, and requires the expenditure of substantial resources for research, development and testing. substantially all of our operations are subject to compliance with fda regulations. failure to adhere to applicable fda regulations by us or our licensees would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. in addition, in the event we are successful in developing product candidates for distribution and sale in other countries, we would become subject to regulation in such countries. such foreign regulations and product approval requirements are expected to be time consuming and expensive.   we or our licensees may encounter delays or rejections during any stage of the regulatory review and approval process based upon the failure of clinical or laboratory data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure of the product candidates to meet, the fda’s requirements for safety, efficacy and quality; and those requirements may become more stringent due to changes in regulatory agency policy or the adoption of new regulations. after submission of an nda the fda may refuse to file the application, deny approval of the application, require additional testing or data and/or require post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of a product. the fda commonly takes more than a year to grant final approval for an nda. the prescription drug user fee act (“pdufa”) sets time standards for fda’s review of nda’s. the fda's timelines described in the pdufa guidance are flexible and subject to change based on workload and other potential review issues and may delay the fda’s review of an nda.  further, the terms of approval of any nda, including the product labeling, may be more restrictive than we or our licensees desire and could affect the marketability of our products.   even if we comply with all the fda regulatory requirements, we or our licensees may never obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. if we or our licensees fail to obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we will have fewer commercialized products and correspondingly lower revenues. even if regulatory approval of our products is received, such approval may involve limitations on the indicated uses or promotional claims we or our licensees may make for our products, or otherwise not permit labeling that sufficiently differentiates our product candidates from competitive products with comparable therapeutic profiles but without abuse deterrent features.  such events would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.  we may market certain of our product without the prior application to and approval by the fda.  the fda may subsequently require us to withdraw such products and submit nda’s for approval prior to re-marketing. the fda also has the authority to revoke or suspend approvals of previously approved products for cause, to debar companies and individuals from participating in the drug-approval process, to request recalls of allegedly violative products, to seize allegedly violative products, to obtain injunctions to close manufacturing plants allegedly not operating in conformity with current good manufacturing practices (“cgmp”) and to stop shipments of allegedly violative products.  in the event the fda takes any such action relating to our products (if any are approved by fda), such actions would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.     24     we must maintain fda approval to manufacture clinical supplies of our product candidates at our facility; failure to maintain compliance with fda requirements may prevent or delay the manufacture of our product candidates and costs of manufacture may be higher than expected.   we have installed the equipment necessary to manufacture clinical trial supplies of our aversion® and impede™ technology product candidates in tablet formulations at our culver, indiana facility. to be used in clinical trials, all of our product candidates must be manufactured in conformity with cgmp regulations. all such product candidates must be manufactured, packaged, and labeled and stored in accordance with cgmps. modifications, enhancements or changes in manufacturing sites of marketed products are, in many circumstances, subject to fda approval, which may be subject to a lengthy application process or which we may be unable to obtain. our culver, indiana facility, and those of any third-party manufacturers that we or our licensees may use, are periodically subject to inspection by the fda and other governmental agencies, and operations at these facilities could be interrupted or halted if the fda deems such inspections are unsatisfactory. failure to comply with fda or other governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, suspension of fda review of our product candidates, termination of ongoing research, disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution.     we develop our products, and manufacture clinical supplies, at a single location.  any disruption at this facility could adversely affect our business and results of operations.   we rely on our culver, indiana facility for developing our product candidates and the manufacture of clinical supplies of our product candidates.  if the culver, indiana facility were damaged or destroyed, or otherwise subject to disruption, it would require substantial lead-time to repair or replace.  if our culver facility were affected by a disaster, we would be forced to rely entirely on cros and third party contract manufacturers while repairs were being made.  although we believe we possess adequate insurance for damage to our property and for the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.  moreover, any disruptions or delays at our culver, indiana facility could impair our ability to develop our product candidates utilizing the aversion® or impede™ technologies, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.   our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety, and other laws and regulations, with which compliance is costly and which exposes us to penalties for non-compliance.   our business, properties and product candidates are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety and the use, management, storage and disposal of hazardous substances, waste and other regulated materials.  because we own and operate real property, various environmental laws also may impose liability on us for the costs of cleaning up and responding to hazardous substances that may have been released on our property, including releases unknown to us.  these environmental laws and regulations also could require us to pay for environmental remediation and response costs at third-party locations where we dispose of or recycle hazardous substances.  the costs of complying with these various environmental requirements, as they now exist or may be altered in the future, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.   if our licensees do not satisfy their obligations, we will be unable to develop our licensed product candidates.   on october 30, 2007, we entered into an agreement with king (as more fully described under the caption “item 1. business – king agreement”).  at december 31, 2010 we had received aggregate payments of $58.3 million from king, consisting of a $30.0 million non-refundable upfront cash payment, $17.3  million in reimbursed research and development expenses relating to our licensed product candidates, $6.0 million in option exercise fees relating to king’s exercise of its option to license an undisclosed opioid analgesic tablet product and vycavert® with niacin tablets, and a $5.0 million milestone fee relating to our successful achievement of the primary end points for our pivotal phase iii clinical study for acurox® with niacin tablets .  our future revenue, if any, will be derived from milestone payments and royalties under the king agreement and under similar license agreements anticipated to be potentially negotiated and executed with other pharmaceutical companies.  no assurance can be given that we will receive the milestone and royalty payments provided for in the king agreement, or that we will be successful in entering into similar agreements with other pharmaceutical companies to develop and commercialize products utilizing our aversion® or impede™ technologies.     25     as part of such license agreements, we will not have day-to-day control over the activities of our licensees with respect to any product candidate.  if a licensee fails to fulfill its obligations under an agreement with us, we may be unable to assume the development of the product candidate covered by that agreement or to enter into alternative arrangements with another third-party. in addition, we may encounter delays in the commercialization of the product candidate that is the subject of a license agreement. accordingly, our ability to receive any revenue from the product candidates covered by such agreements will be dependent on the efforts of our licensee. we could be involved in disputes with a licensee, which could lead to delays in or termination of, our development and commercialization programs and result in time consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. in addition, any such dispute could diminish our licensee’s commitment to us and reduce the resources they devote to developing and commercializing our products. if any licensee terminates or breaches its agreement, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, our chances of successfully developing or commercializing our product candidates would be materially adversely effected. additionally, due to the nature of the market for our product candidates, it may be necessary for us to license all or a significant portion of our product candidates to a single company thereby eliminating our opportunity to commercialize other product candidates with other licensees. if we fail to maintain our license agreement with king, we may have to reduce or delay our product candidate development.   our plan for developing, manufacturing and commercializing acurox® tablets and other opioid analgesic product candidates utilizing our aversion® technology currently requires us to successfully maintain our license agreement with king. in addition to other customary termination provisions, the king agreement provides that king may terminate the king agreement at any time upon written notice to us.  if king elects to terminate the king agreement, or if we are otherwise unable to maintain our existing relationship with king, we may have to limit the size or scope of, or delay or abandon the development of, acurox® tablets (with and without niacin) and other opioid analgesic product candidates or undertake and fund development of these product candidates ourselves. if we were required to fund development and commercialization efforts with respect to acurox® tablets and other opioid analgesic product candidates on our own, we may need to obtain additional financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all.   if king is not successful in commercializing acurox® tablets (with or without niacin) and other licensed product candidates incorporating the aversion® technology our revenues and our business will suffer.   pursuant to the king agreement, king is responsible for manufacturing, marketing, pricing, promoting, selling, and distributing certain of our product candidates in the us, canada and mexico.  if such agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms, including due to a party’s failure to perform its obligations or responsibilities under the agreement, then we would need to commercialize the products ourselves for which we currently have no infrastructure or alternatively enter into a new agreement with another pharmaceutical company, of which no assurance can be given.  in this event our revenues and/or royalties for these products could be adversely impacted. king’s manufacturing facility is currently the sole commercial source of supply for acurox® tablets and our other product candidates licensed to king.  if king’s manufacturing facility fails to obtain sufficient dea quotas for the opioid active ingredients contained in such product candidates, fails to source adequate quantities of active and inactive ingredients, fails to comply with regulatory requirements, or otherwise experiences disruptions in commercial supply of our product candidates, product revenue and our royalties could be adversely impacted. king has a diversified product line for which acurox® tablets and our other product candidates licensed to king will vie for king’s promotional, marketing, and selling resources.  if king fails to commit sufficient promotional, marketing and selling resources to our products, product revenue and our royalties could be adversely impacted.  additionally, in view of pfizer, inc.’s recent acquisition of king pharmaceuticals in february, 2011, there can be no assurance that pfizer will commit the resources required for the successful development and commercialization of our product candidates. the market for our opioid product candidates is highly competitive with many marketed non abuse deterrent brand and generic products and other abuse deterrent product candidates in development.  if king prices our product candidates inappropriately, fails to position our products properly, targets inappropriate physician specialties, or otherwise does not provide sufficient promotional support, product revenue and our royalties could be adversely impacted. the market may not be receptive to products incorporating our aversion® technology. the commercial success of our products will depend on acceptance by health care providers and others that such products are clinically useful, cost-effective and safe. there can be no assurance given that our products utilizing the aversion® or impede™ technologies would be accepted by health care providers and others. factors that may materially affect market acceptance of our product candidates include but are not limited to:     26       · the relative advantages and disadvantages of our products compared to competitive products;   · the relative timing to commercial launch of our products compared to competitive products;   · the relative safety and efficacy of our products compared to competitive products;   · the product labeling approved by the fda for our products;   · the willingness of third party payers to reimburse for our prescription products; and   · the willingness of consumers to pay for our products. our product candidates, if successfully developed and commercially launched, will compete with both currently marketed and new products launched in the future by other companies. health care providers may not accept or utilize any of our products.  physicians and other prescribers may not be inclined to prescribe our products unless our products demonstrate commercially viable advantages over other products currently marketed for the same indications.  consumers may not be willing to purchase our products.  if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenues or become profitable.   if we, our licensees or others identify serious adverse events or deaths relating to any of our products once on the market, we may be required to withdraw our products from the market, which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues.   we or our licensees are required to report to relevant regulatory authorities all serious adverse events or deaths involving our product candidates or approved products.  if we, our licensees, or others identify such events, regulatory authorities may withdraw their approvals of such products; we or our licensees may be required to reformulate our products; we or our licensees may have to recall the affected products from the market and may not be able to reintroduce them onto the market; our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and we may become the target of lawsuits, including class actions suits.  any of these events could harm or prevent sales of the affected products and could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.   in the event that we or our licensees are successful in bringing any products to market, our revenues may be adversely affected if we fail to obtain insurance coverage or adequate reimbursement for our products from third-party payers.   the ability of our licensees to successfully commercialize our products may depend in part on the availability of reimbursement for our prescription products from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, and other third-party payers and administrators, including medicaid and medicare. we cannot predict the availability of reimbursement for newly-approved products utilizing our aversion® technology. third-party payers and administrators, including state medicaid programs and medicare, are challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products. government and other third-party payers increasingly are limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs.  third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any of our products candidates. the continuing efforts of government and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care may limit our commercial opportunity. if government and other third-party payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for any product utilizing our aversion® technology, health care providers may not prescribe them or patients may ask their health care providers to prescribe competing products with more favorable reimbursement. in some foreign markets, pricing and profitability of pharmaceutical products are subject to government control. in the united states, we expect there may be federal and state proposals for similar controls. in addition, we expect that increasing emphasis on managed care in the united states will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we or our licensees charge for any of our products in the future. further, cost control initiatives could impair our ability or the ability of our licensees to commercialize our products and our ability to earn revenues from commercialization.   consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or to the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our markets, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.   because healthcare costs have risen significantly, numerous initiatives and reforms by legislatures, regulators and third-party payers to curb these cost increases have resulted in a trend in the healthcare industry to consolidate product suppliers and purchasers.  as the healthcare industry consolidates, competition among suppliers to provide products to purchasers has become more intense.  this in turn has resulted and will likely continue to result in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, and large single accounts continue to use their market power to influence product pricing and purchasing decisions.  we expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to influence the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations, which may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our anticipated products. this downward pricing pressure may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.     27     our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. our success depends on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for products developed utilizing our technologies, in the united states and in other countries, and to enforce these patents. the patent positions of pharmaceutical firms, including us, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. notwithstanding our receipt of u.s. patent no. 7,201,920, u.s. patent no. 7,476,402 and u.s. patent no. 7,510,726 from the united states patent and trademark office (“uspto”) encompassing our opioid product candidates utilizing our aversion® technology, there is no assurance that any of our patent claims in our other pending non-provisional and provisional patent applications relating to our technologies will issue or if issued, that any such patent claims will be valid and enforceable against third-party infringement or that our products will not infringe any third-party patent or intellectual property. moreover, any patent claims relating to our technologies may not be sufficiently broad to protect our products. in addition, issued patent claims may be challenged, potentially invalidated or potentially circumvented. our patent claims may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology or permit the commercialization of our products without infringing third-party patents or other intellectual property rights.   our success also depends on our not infringing patents issued to others. we may become aware of patents belonging to competitors and others that could require us to obtain licenses to such patents or alter our technologies. obtaining such licenses or altering our technology could be time consuming and costly. we may not be able to obtain a license to any technology owned by or licensed to a third party that we or our licensees require to manufacture or market one or more of our products.  even if we can obtain a license, the financial and other terms may be disadvantageous.   our success also depends on maintaining the confidentiality of our trade secrets and know-how. we seek to protect such information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, potential licensees, raw material suppliers, contract research organizations, contract manufacturers, potential investors, consultants and other parties. these agreements may be breached by such parties. we may not be able to obtain an adequate, or perhaps, any remedy to such a breach. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. our inability to protect our intellectual property or to commercialize our products without infringing third-party patents or other intellectual property rights would have a material adverse affect on our operations and financial condition. we may become involved in patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings relating to our aversion® or impede™ technologies or product candidates which could result in liability for damages or delay or stop our development and commercialization efforts. the pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by significant litigation and other proceedings regarding patents, patent applications and other intellectual property rights. the situations in which we may become parties to such litigation or proceedings may include:   · litigation or other proceedings we may initiate against third parties to enforce our patent rights or other intellectual property rights;   · litigation or other proceedings we may initiate against third parties seeking to invalidate the patents held by such third parties or to obtain a judgment that our products do not infringe such third parties’ patents;   · litigation or other proceedings third parties may initiate against us to seek to invalidate our patents or to obtain a judgment that third party products do not infringe our patents;     28       · if our competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by us, we may be forced to participate in interference or opposition proceedings to determine the priority of invention and whether we are entitled to patent rights on such invention; and   · if third parties initiate litigation claiming that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, we will need to defend against such proceedings.   the costs of resolving any patent litigation or other intellectual property proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. many of our potential competitors will be able to sustain the cost of such litigation and proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. patent litigation and other intellectual property proceedings may also consume significant management time.   our technologies or products may be found to infringe claims of patents owned by others. if we determine or if we are found to be infringing a patent held by another party, we, our suppliers or our licensees might have to seek a license to make, use, and sell the patented technologies and products. in that case, we, our suppliers or our licensees might not be able to obtain such license on acceptable terms, or at all. the failure to obtain a license to any third party technology that may be required would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if a legal action is brought against us, we could incur substantial defense costs, and any such action might not be resolved in our favor. if such a dispute is resolved against us, we may have to pay the other party large sums of money and use of our technology and the testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale of one or more of our products could be restricted or prohibited. even prior to resolution of such a dispute, use of our technology and the testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale of one or more of our products could be restricted or prohibited. we are aware of certain united states and international pending patent applications owned by third parties with claims potentially encompassing our product candidates. while we do not expect the claims contained in such pending patent applications will issue in their present form, there can be no assurance that such patent applications will not issue as patents with claims encompassing one or more of our product candidates.  if such patent applications result in valid and enforceable issued patents, containing claims in their current form or otherwise encompassing our products we or our licensees may be required to obtain a license to such patents, should one be available, or alternatively, alter our products so as to avoid infringing such third-party patents. if we or our licensees are unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we or our licensees could be restricted or prevented from commercializing our products. additionally, any alterations to our products or our technologies could be time consuming and costly and may not result in technologies or products that are non-infringing or commercially viable.   we cannot assure you that our technologies, products and/or actions in developing our products will not infringe third-party patents.  our failure to avoid infringing third-party patents and intellectual property rights in the development and commercialization of our products would have a material adverse affect on our operations and financial condition.   we may be exposed to product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate product liability insurance.   our business exposes us to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. product liability claims might be made by patients, or health care providers or others that sell or consume our products. these claims may be made even with respect to those products that possess regulatory approval for commercial sale.  we are currently covered by clinical trial product liability insurance on a claims-made basis. this coverage may not be adequate to cover any product liability claims. product liability coverage is expensive. in the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain such product liability insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to product liability claims. any claims that are not covered by product liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  reference is made to the discussion under the caption “item 3 – legal proceedings – reglan®/metoclopramide litigation” for a discussion of pending product liability litigation filed against the company in each of pennsylvania, new jersey and california. the pharmaceutical industry is characterized by frequent litigation. those companies with significant financial resources will be better able to bring and defend any such litigation. no assurance can be given that we would not become involved in such litigation. such litigation may have material adverse consequences to our financial condition and results of operations.     29     we face significant competition which may result in others developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do.   the pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is affected by new technologies, governmental regulations, health care legislation, availability of financing, litigation and other factors. if our product candidates receive fda approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future drug products and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. existing or future competing products may provide greater therapeutic convenience, clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than our products, or may offer comparable performance at lower costs. if our products are unable to capture and maintain market share, we or our licensees may not achieve significant product revenues and our financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. we or our licensees will compete for market share against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies or other companies that collaborate with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. many of these competitors have products already approved, marketed or in development. in addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs, have substantially greater financial resources, experience in developing products, obtaining fda and other regulatory approvals, formulating and manufacturing drugs, and commercializing products than we do. we are concentrating a substantial majority of our efforts and resources on developing product candidates utilizing our aversion® and impede™ technologies. the commercial success of products utilizing such technologies will depend, in large part, on the intensity of competition, fda approved product labeling for our products compared to competitive products, and the relative timing and sequence for commercial launch of new products by other companies developing, marketing, selling and distributing products that compete with the products utilizing our aversion® and impede™ technologies.  alternative technologies and non-opioid products are being developed to improve or replace the use of opioid analgesics. in the event that such alternatives to opioid analgesics are widely adopted, then the market for products utilizing our aversion® and impede™ technologies may be substantially decreased thus reducing our ability to generate future profits.   key personnel are critical to our business and our success depends on our ability to retain them.   we are dependent on our management and scientific team, including andrew d. reddick, our president and chief executive officer, robert jones, our senior vice president and chief operating officer, and albert w. brzeczko, ph.d., our vice president of technical affairs. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and non-profit research institutions. while we have employment agreements with certain employees, all of our employees are at-will employees who may terminate their employment at any time. we do not have key personnel insurance on any of our officers or employees. the loss of any of our key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain such personnel, may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our product and technology development and business objectives and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   the u.s. drug enforcement administration (“dea”) limits the availability of the active ingredients used in our product candidates and, as a result, our quota may not be sufficient to complete clinical trials or may result in development delays.   the dea regulates certain finished drug products and active pharmaceutical ingredients, including certain opioid active pharmaceutical ingredients and pseudoephedrine hcl in our current product candidates. consequently, their manufacture, research, shipment, storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of regulation. furthermore, the amount of active ingredients we can obtain for our clinical trials is limited by the dea and our quota may not be sufficient to complete clinical trials. there is a risk that dea regulations may interfere with the supply of the products used in our clinical trials.     30     prior ownership changes limit our ability to use our tax net operating loss carryforwards.   significant equity restructuring often results in an internal revenue section 382 ownership change that limits the future use of net operating loss (“nol”) carryforwards and other tax attributes.  we have determined that an ownership change (as defined by section 382 of the internal revenue code) did occur as a result of restructuring that occurred in 2004.  neither the amount of our nol carryforwards nor the amount of limitation of such carryforwards claimed by us have been audited or otherwise validated by the internal revenue service, which could challenge the amount we have calculated.  the recognition and measurement of our tax benefit includes estimates and judgment by our management, which includes subjectivity.  changes in estimates may create volatility in our tax rate in future periods based on new information about particular tax positions that may cause management to change its estimates.  risks relating to our common stock our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate, and these fluctuations could cause our stock price to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future. these fluctuations could cause our stock price to decline. the nature of our business involves variable factors, such as the timing of the research, development and regulatory submissions of our product candidates that could cause our operating results to fluctuate.  the forecasting of the timing of sales of our product candidates is difficult due to the uncertainty inherent in seeking fda and other necessary approvals for our product candidates.  as a result, in some future quarters or years our clinical, financial or operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors which could result in a decline in the price of our stock. volatility in stock prices of other companies may contribute to volatility in our stock price. the market price of our common stock, like the market price for securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, has historically been highly volatile. the stock market from time to time experiences significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. factors, such as fluctuations in our operating results, future sales of our common stock, announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products by us or our competitors, announcements regarding collaborative agreements, laboratory or clinical trial results, government regulation, fda determinations on the approval of a product candidate nda submission, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or others, changes in reimbursement policies, comments made by securities analysts and general market conditions may have a substantial effect on the market price of our common stock. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation and shareholder derivative litigation has often been instituted. a securities class action suit or shareholder derivative suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources and result in a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations.  reference is made to the discussion under the caption “item 3 –legal proceedings – securities class action and derivative litigation” for a discussion of a pending securities class action litigation filed against us in the united states district court for the northern district of illinois, eastern division, and three shareholder derivative suits filed in the circuit court of cook county, illinois, chancery division.   our stock price has been volatile and there may not be an active, liquid trading market for our common stock.   our stock price has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and may continue to experience volatility in the future.  factors that have a material impact on the price of our common stock, in addition to the other issues described herein, include results of or delays in our pre-clinical and clinical studies, any delays in, or failure to receive fda approval of our product candidates, the success of our license agreement with king, announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or others, developments in patents and other proprietary rights by us or others, future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders, regulatory developments or changes in regulatory guidance, the departure of our officers, directors or key employees, and period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results.  also, you may not be able to sell your shares at the best market price if trading in our stock in not active or if the volume is low.  there is no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will be maintained on the nasdaq capital market.     31     the national association of securities dealers, inc., or nasd, and the securities and exchange commission, or sec, have adopted rules relating to the listing of publicly traded stock. if we were unable to continue to comply with such rules, we could be delisted from trading on the nasdaq capital market and thereafter trading in our common stock, if any, would be conducted through the over-the-counter bulletin board of the nasd. as a consequence of such delisting, an investor would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain quotations as to the price of, our common stock. delisting of our common stock from the nasdaq capital market could also result in lower prices per share of our common stock than would otherwise prevail. we do not have a history of paying dividends on our common stock. historically we have not declared and paid any cash dividends on our common stock.   we intend to retain all of our earnings for the foreseeable future to finance the operation and expansion of our business.  as a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. gce holdings llc can control all matters requiring approval by shareholders. gce holdings llc beneficially owns approximately 74.7% of our outstanding common stock as of december 31, 2010 (calculated in accordance with rule 13d-3 promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended).  as a result, gce holdings llc, in view of its ownership percentage of our common stock, will be able to control all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the approval or rejection of mergers, sales or licenses of all or substantially all of our assets, or other business combination transactions. the interests of gce holdings llc may not always coincide with the interests of our other shareholders and as such we may take action in advance of its interests to the detriment of our other shareholders.  accordingly, you may not be able to influence any action we take or consider taking, even if it requires a shareholder vote.   we are currently a “controlled company” within the meaning of the nasdaq capital market listing requirements and, as a result, are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements.   because gce holdings llc controls more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, we are currently considered to be a “controlled company” for purposes of a nasdaq capital market listing requirements.  as such, we are permitted, and have elected, to opt out of the nasdaq capital market listing requirements that would otherwise require our board of directors to have a majority of independent directors, our board nominations to be selected, or recommended for the board’s selection either by a nominating committee comprised entirely of independent directors or by a majority of independent directors, and our compensation committee to be comprised entirely of independent directors.  accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the nasdaq capital market corporate governance requirements.   any future sale of a substantial number of shares included in our current registration statement could depress the trading price of our stock, lower our value and make it more difficult for us to raise capital.   in accordance with the terms of the securities purchase agreement dated august 20, 2007 between us and the investors named therein, we filed a registration statement with the sec to register the shares included in our units issued pursuant to the securities purchase agreement, including shares underlying warrants included in the units.  in addition, pursuant to the exercise of previously granted piggyback registration rights, each of gce holdings, llc, galen partners iii, l.p., galen partners international iii, l.p., galen employee fund iii, l.p., care capital investments ii, lp, care capital offshore investments ii, lp and essex woodlands health ventures v, l.p. have exercised their piggyback registration rights to include an aggregate of 26,584,016 shares in such registration statement.  as a result, 34,243,273 shares (representing approximately 74.7% of our shares outstanding on a fully-diluted basis – including all derivative securities, whether or not currently exercisable) are included in the registration statement for resale by selling stockholders.  such registration statement was declared effective by the sec on november 20, 2007.  if some or all of such shares included in such registration statement are sold by our affiliates and others it may have the effect of depressing the trading price of our common stock.  in addition, such sales could lower our value and make it more difficult for us to raise capital if needed in the future.     32     item 1b. unresolved