item 1a. risk factors downturns in the general economy or the commercial and residential construction industries may adversely affect our revenues and operating results. general economic downturns, including downturns in the commercial and residential construction industries, could result in a material decrease in our revenues and operating results.  demand for many of our products, especially in the commercial construction industry, is cyclical.  sales of our products are sensitive to the states of the u.s., foreign and regional economies in general, and in particular, changes in commercial construction spending and government infrastructure spending.  in addition, many of our costs are fixed and cannot be quickly reduced in response to decreased demand.  the following factors could cause a downturn in the commercial and residential construction industries: ·   a decrease in the availability of funds for construction; ·   declining economy domestically and internationally; ·   labor disputes in the construction industry causing work stoppages; ·   rising gas and fuel oil prices; ·   rising steel prices and steel surcharges; ·   rising interest rates; ·   energy or building materials shortages; ·   inclement weather; and ·   availability of credit for customers. downturns in the general economy and restrictions in the credit markets may negatively impact our earnings, cash flows and/or financial position and access to financing sources by the company and our customers.   worldwide economic conditions and the international credit markets have significantly deteriorated in recent years and will possibly remain depressed for the foreseeable future. continued deterioration of economic conditions and credit markets could adversely impact our earnings as sales of our products are sensitive to general declines in u.s. and foreign economies and the ability of our customers to obtain credit.  in addition, we rely on the capital markets and the banking markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. further disruptions in the capital and credit markets, or deterioration of our creditors' financial condition, could adversely affect the company's ability to draw on its revolving credit facility.  the company’s current credit facility expires in april 2017, and the restrictions in the credit markets could make it more difficult or expensive for us to replace our current credit facility, enter into a new credit facility or obtain additional financing. a decrease or delay in government funding of highway construction and maintenance may cause our revenues and profits to decrease. many of our customers depend on government funding of highway construction and maintenance and other infrastructure projects.  any decrease or delay in government funding of highway construction and maintenance and other infrastructure projects could cause our net sales and profits to decrease.  historically, federal government funding of infrastructure projects has typically been accomplished through bills that establish funding over a multi-year period, such as the safe, accountable, flexible and efficient transportation equity act - a legacy for users (“safetea-lu”), which provided $286.5 billion to fund federal transit projects from 2004 to 2009.  safetea-lu funding expired on september 30, 2009, and federal transportation funding has operated on a number of shorter term appropriations since that date. the most recent funding legislation, commonly referred to as map-21, was passed in july 2012 and funds federal transportation expenditures through september 30, 2014.   20   with the current political environment in washington, the level of funding for federal highway projects is uncertain.  although continued funding is expected, it may be at lower levels than in the past, and congress may not enact long-term funding acts in the near future.  in addition, congress could pass legislation in future sessions that would allow for the diversion of previously appropriated highway funds for other national purposes, or it could restrict funding of infrastructure projects unless states comply with certain federal policies. the cyclical nature of our industry and the customization of the equipment we sell may cause adverse fluctuations to our revenues and operating results. we sell equipment primarily to contractors whose demand for equipment depends greatly upon the volume of road or utility construction projects underway or to be scheduled by both government and private entities.  the volume and frequency of road and utility construction projects is cyclical; therefore, demand for many of our products is cyclical.  the equipment we sell is durable and typically lasts for several years, which also contributes to the cyclical nature of the demand for our products.  as a result, we may experience cyclical fluctuations to our revenues and operating results. an increase in the price of oil or decrease in the availability of oil could reduce demand for our products.  significant increases in the purchase price of certain raw materials used to manufacture our equipment could have a negative impact on the cost of production and related gross margins. a significant portion of our revenues relates to the sale of equipment involved in the production, handling, recycling or installation of asphalt mix.  liquid asphalt is a byproduct of the refining of oil, and asphalt prices correlate with the price and availability of oil.  an increase in the price of oil or a decrease in the availability of oil would increase the cost of producing asphalt, which would likely decrease demand for asphalt, resulting in decreased demand for many of our products.  this would likely cause our revenues and profits to decrease.  rising gasoline, diesel fuel and liquid asphalt prices will also adversely impact the operating and raw material costs of our contractor and aggregate producer customers, and if such customers do not properly adjust their pricing, they could experience reduced profits resulting in possible delays in purchasing capital equipment. steel is a major component in the company’s equipment. steel prices fluctuate routinely and are expected to increase during 2013. our reliance on third-party suppliers for steel and other raw materials exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials. price increases or a decrease in the availability of these raw materials could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our financial results.    21   acquisitions that we have made in the past and future acquisitions involve risks that could adversely affect our future financial results. we have completed several acquisitions in the past, including the acquisition of the gefco division of blue tee corp. and the businesses now operating as astec mobile machinery gmbh in 2011.  we may acquire additional businesses in the future.  we may be unable to achieve the benefits expected to be realized from our acquisitions.  in addition, we may incur additional costs and our management's attention may be diverted because of unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other risks inherent in acquiring businesses, including the following: ·   we may have difficulty integrating the financial and administrative functions of acquired businesses; ·   acquisitions may divert management's attention from our existing operations; ·   fluctuations in exchange rates and a weakening of the dollar may impact the competitiveness of acquired businesses; ·   we may have difficulty in competing successfully for available acquisition candidates, completing future acquisitions or accurately estimating the financial effect of any businesses we acquire; ·   we may have delays in realizing the benefits of our strategies for an acquired business; ·   we may not be able to retain key employees necessary to continue the operations of the acquired business; ·   acquisition costs may deplete significant cash amounts or may decrease our operating income; ·   we may choose to acquire a company that is less profitable or has lower profit margins than our company; ·   future acquired companies may have unknown liabilities that could require us to spend significant amounts of additional capital; and ·   we may incur domestic or international economic declines that impact our acquired companies. competition could reduce revenue from our products and services and cause us to lose market share. we currently face strong competition in product performance, price and service.  some of our domestic and international competitors have greater financial, product development and marketing resources than the company has.  if competition in our industry intensifies or if our current competitors enhance their products or lower their prices for competing products, we may lose sales or be required to lower the prices we charge for our products.  this may reduce revenue from our products and services, lower our gross margins or cause us to lose market share. our success depends on key members of our management and other employees. dr. j. don brock, our chairman and chief executive officer, is of significant importance to our business and operations.  the loss of his services may adversely affect our business.  in addition, our ability to attract and retain qualified engineers, skilled manufacturing personnel and other professionals, either through direct hiring or acquisition of other businesses employing such professionals, will also be an important factor in determining our future success.   22   difficulties in managing and expanding in international markets could divert management's attention from our existing operations. in 2012, international sales represented approximately 39.3% of our total sales as compared to 41.3% in 2011.  we plan to continue our growth efforts in international markets.  in connection with any increase in international sales efforts, we will need to hire, train and retain qualified personnel in countries where language, cultural or regulatory barriers may exist.  any difficulties in expanding our international sales may divert management's attention from our existing operations.  in addition, international revenues are subject to the following risks: ·   fluctuating currency exchange rates, which can reduce the profitability of foreign sales; ·   the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; ·   dependence on foreign sales agents; ·   political and economic instability of governments; ·   the imposition of protective legislation such as import or export barriers; and ·   fluctuating strengths or weakness of the dollar, which can impact net sales or the cost of purchased products. we may be unsuccessful in complying with the financial ratio covenants or other provisions of our credit agreement. as of december 31, 2012, we were in compliance with the financial covenants contained in our credit agreement with wells fargo bank, n.a..  however, in the future we may be unable to comply with the financial covenants in our credit facility or to obtain waivers with respect to such financial covenants.  if such violations occur, the company’s creditors could elect to pursue their contractual remedies under the credit facility, including requiring immediate repayment in full of all amounts then outstanding.  as of december 31, 2012, the company had no outstanding borrowings but did have $13,113,000 of letters of credit outstanding under the credit agreement.  additional amounts may be borrowed in the future.  the company’s osborn and astec australia subsidiaries have their own independent loan agreements in place. our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate, which may decrease our stock price. our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future.  as a result, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in some quarters, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock.  the reasons our quarterly results may fluctuate include: ·   general competitive and economic conditions, domestically and internationally; ·   delays in, or uneven timing in, the delivery of customer orders; ·   the seasonal trend in our industry; ·   the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; ·   product supply shortages; and ·   reduced demand due to adverse weather conditions. period-to-period comparisons of such items should not be relied on as indications of future performance.   23   we may face product liability claims or other liabilities due to the nature of our business.  if we are unable to obtain or maintain insurance or if our insurance does not cover liabilities, we may incur significant costs which could reduce our profitability. we manufacture heavy machinery, which is used by our customers at excavation and construction sites and on high-traffic roads.  any defect in or improper operation of our equipment can result in personal injury and death, and damage to or destruction of property, any of which could cause product liability claims to be filed against us.  the amount and scope of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in the event of a product liability claim.  we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types or at the levels we deem necessary or adequate or at rates we consider reasonable.  any liabilities not covered by insurance could reduce our profitability or have an adverse effect on our financial condition. if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology from infringement or if our technology infringes technology owned by others, then the demand for our products may decrease or we may be forced to modify our products, which could increase our costs. we hold numerous patents covering technology and applications related to many of our products and systems as well as numerous trademarks and trade names registered with the u.s. patent and trademark office and in foreign countries.  our existing or future patents or trademarks may not adequately protect us against infringements, and pending patent or trademark applications may not result in issued patents or trademarks.  our patents, registered trademarks and patent applications, if any, may not be upheld if challenged, and competitors may develop similar or superior methods or products outside the protection of our patents.  this could reduce demand for our products and materially decrease our revenues.  if our products are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify the design of our products, change the name of our products or obtain a license for the use of some of the technologies used in our products.  we may be unable to do any of the foregoing in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do so could cause us to incur additional costs or lose revenues. if we become subject to increased governmental regulation, we may incur significant costs. our hot-mix asphalt plants contain air pollution control equipment and several of our other products contain engines that must comply with performance standards promulgated by the environmental protection agency.  these performance standards may increase in the future.  changes in these requirements could cause us to undertake costly measures to redesign or modify our equipment or otherwise adversely affect the manufacturing processes of our products.  such changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. also, due to the size and weight of some of the equipment that we manufacture, we often are required to comply with conflicting state regulations on the maximum weight transportable on highways and roads.  in addition, some states regulate the operation of our component equipment, including asphalt mixing plants and soil remediation equipment, and most states regulate the accuracy of weights and measures, which affect some of the control systems we manufacture.  we may incur material costs or liabilities in connection with the regulatory requirements applicable to our business.   24   as an innovative leader in the industries in which we operate, we occasionally undertake the engineering, design, manufacturing and construction of equipment systems that are new to the market.  estimating the cost of such innovative equipment can be difficult and could result in our realization of significantly reduced or negative margins on such projects. in the past, we have experienced negative margins on certain large, specialized aggregate systems projects.  these large contracts included both existing and innovative equipment designs, on-site construction and minimum production levels.  since it can be difficult to achieve the expected production results during the project design phase, field testing and redesign may be required during project installation, resulting in added cost. in addition, due to any number of unforeseen circumstances, which can include adverse weather conditions, projects can incur extended construction and testing delays which can cause significant cost overruns.  we may not be able to sufficiently predict the extent of such unforeseen cost overruns and may experience significant losses on specialized projects.  additionally, the company typically incurs substantial research and development costs each year and has historically received significant research and development tax credits due to these expenditures.  while these tax credits have been approved through 2013, they may not be approved for future years. our articles of incorporation, bylaws and rights agreement and tennessee law may inhibit a takeover, which could delay or prevent a transaction in which shareholders might receive a premium over market price for their shares. our charter and bylaws and tennessee law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition or an attempt to obtain control of us.  this could occur even if our shareholders are offered an attractive value for their shares or if a substantial number or even a majority of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest.  these provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us or obtaining control of us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our board of directors in connection with the transaction.  provisions that could delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition or an attempt to obtain control of us include the following: ·   having a staggered board of directors; ·   requiring a two-thirds vote of the total number of shares issued and outstanding to remove directors other than for cause; ·   requiring advance notice of actions proposed by shareholders for consideration at shareholder meetings; ·   limiting the right of shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders; ·   requiring that all shareholders entitled to vote on an action provide written consent in order for shareholders to act without holding a shareholders’ meeting; and ·   being governed by the tennessee control share acquisition act. in addition, the rights of holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future and that may be senior to the rights of holders of our common stock.  in december 2005, our board of directors approved an amended and restated shareholder protection rights agreement, which provides for one preferred stock purchase right in respect of each share of our common stock ("rights agreement").  these rights become exercisable upon the acquisition by a person or group of affiliated persons, other than an existing 15% shareholder, of 15% or more of our then-outstanding common stock by all persons.  this rights agreement also could discourage bids for the shares of common stock at a premium and could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our shares. item 1b. unresolved