item 1a. risk factors there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that may affect the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. these risks and uncertainties could cause future results to differ from past performance or expected results, including results described in statements elsewhere in this report that constitute "forward-looking statements" under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or it currently believes to be immaterial also may adversely impact the business. should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on the company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. these risks and uncertainties, which the company considers to be most relevant to specific business activities, include, but are not limited to, the following, as well as additional risk factors included in item 7a, "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk."  additional risks and uncertainties that may affect the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition are discussed in this report, including in “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations” under the headings “forward-looking statements,” “market risks,” and “outlook for fiscal 2012”.   our business relies on remodeling activity and residential construction. the company’s results of operations are affected by levels of home improvement and residential construction activity, including repair and remodeling and new construction. job creation levels, interest rates, availability of credit, energy costs, consumer confidence, national and regional economic conditions, and weather conditions and natural disasters can significantly impact levels of home improvement and residential construction activity. our future financial performance depends in part on the success of our new product development and other growth strategies.  the company has increased its emphasis on new product development in recent years and continues to focus solely on organic growth. consequently, the company’s financial performance will, in part, reflect its success in implementing its growth strategies in its existing markets and in introducing new products. the loss of, or a reduction in business from, either of our key customers would have a material adverse effect on our business.  the size and importance to the company of its two largest customers is significant. these customers could make significant changes in their volume of purchases and could otherwise significantly affect the terms and conditions on which the company does business. sales to the home depot and lowe’s companies, inc. were approximately 73% of total company sales for fiscal 2011. although builders, dealers, and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for the company's products, an unplanned loss of a substantial portion of sales to the home depot or lowe’s companies, inc. would have a material adverse impact on the company. our operating results are affected by the cost and availability of raw materials.  because the company is dependent on outside suppliers for raw material needs, it must obtain sufficient quantities of quality raw materials from its suppliers at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. the company has no long-term supply contracts with its key suppliers. a substantial decrease in the availability of products from the company’s suppliers, the loss of key supplier arrangements, or a substantial increase in the cost of its raw materials could adversely impact the company’s results of operations. we may not be able to maintain or raise the prices of our products in response to inflation and increasing costs.  short-term market and competitive pressures may prohibit the company from raising prices to offset inflationary raw material and freight costs, which would adversely impact profit margins. the economic recession is adversely impacting demand for the housing industry.  through fiscal year 2011, the company’s sales levels have fallen by 46% from their peak levels in 2006.  if market conditions continue to decline, the company’s sales, earnings, and cash flow would continue to be adversely impacted.   3   item 1b. unresolved