item 1a. risk factors there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that may affect the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. these risks and uncertainties could cause future results to differ from past performance or expected results, including results described in statements elsewhere in this report that constitute "forward-looking statements" under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or currently believed to be immaterial also may adversely impact the business. should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on the company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. these risks and uncertainties, which the company considers to be most relevant to specific business activities, include, but are not limited to, the following, as well as additional risk factors included in item 7a, "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk."  additional risks and uncertainties that may affect the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition are discussed elsewhere in this report, including in “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations” under the headings “forward-looking statements,” “market risks,” and “outlook for fiscal 2014.”   the company’s business is dependent upon remodeling activity and residential construction.  the company’s results of operations are affected by levels of home improvement and residential construction activity, including repair and remodeling and new construction. job creation levels, interest rates, availability of credit, energy costs, consumer confidence, national and regional economic conditions, and weather conditions and natural disasters can significantly impact levels of home improvement and residential construction activity.  prolonged economic downturns may adversely impact the company’s sales, earnings and liquidity.  although they have recently rebounded, the company’s fiscal 2013 sales levels were 25% below their peak levels of 2006.  the company’s industry historically has been cyclical in nature and has fluctuated with economic cycles. during economic downturns, the company’s industry could experience longer periods of recession and greater declines than the general economy. the company believes that its industry is significantly influenced by economic conditions generally and particularly by housing activity, consumer confidence, the level of personal discretionary spending, demographics and credit availability. these factors not only may affect the ultimate consumer of the company’s products, but also may impact home centers, builders and the company’s other primary customers. as a result, a worsening of current conditions could adversely affect the company’s sales and earnings as well as its cash flow and liquidity. the company’s future financial performance depends in part on the success of its new product development and other growth strategies.  the company has increased its emphasis on new product development in recent years and continues to focus solely on organic growth. consequently, the company’s financial performance will, in part, reflect its success in implementing its growth strategies in its existing markets and in introducing new products. the loss of, or a reduction in business from, either of the company’s key customers would have a material adverse effect upon its business.  the size and importance to the company of its two largest customers is significant. these customers could make significant changes in their volume of purchases and could otherwise significantly affect the terms and conditions on which the company does business. sales to the home depot and lowe’s companies, inc. were approximately 59% of total company sales for fiscal 2013. although builders, dealers, and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for the company's products, an unplanned loss of a substantial portion of sales to the home depot or lowe’s companies, inc. would have a material adverse impact on the company.   3   manufacturing realignments and cost savings programs similar to the company’s 2012 restructuring plan could result in a decrease in the company’s near-term earnings and liquidity.  the company continually reviews its manufacturing operations. these reviews could result in manufacturing realignments and cost savings programs, such as the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems, or procedures, which in turn could result in a charge that would decrease near-term earnings and liquidity until the expected cost reductions are achieved. any such realignments would likely result in significant costs including, among others, severance, impairment, exit, and disposal costs and capital expenditures. impairment charges could reduce the company’s profitability.  the company has significant long-lived assets, including deferred tax assets, recorded on its balance sheets. if operating results decline or if the company decides to restructure results as it did with the 2012 restructuring plan, the company could incur impairment charges, which could have a material impact on its financial results. the company evaluates the recoverability of the carrying amount of its long-lived assets on an ongoing basis. the outcome of future reviews could result in substantial impairment charges. impairment assessments inherently involve judgments as to assumptions about market conditions and the company’s ability to generate future cash flows and profitability, given those assumptions. future events and changing market conditions may impact the company’s assumptions as to prices, costs or other factors that may result in changes in the company’s estimates. although the company believes the assumptions used in testing for impairment are reasonable, significant changes in these assumptions could produce a significantly different result. the company’s operating results are affected by the cost and availability of raw materials.  because the company is dependent on outside suppliers for raw material needs, it must obtain sufficient quantities of quality raw materials from its suppliers at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. the company has no long-term supply contracts with its key suppliers. a substantial decrease in the availability of products from the company’s suppliers, the loss of key supplier arrangements, or a substantial increase in the cost of its raw materials could adversely impact the company’s results of operations. the company may not be able to maintain or raise the prices of its products in response to inflation and increasing costs.  short-term market and competitive pressures may prohibit the company from raising prices to offset inflationary raw material and freight costs, which would adversely impact profit margins. item 1b. unresolved