item 1a. risk factors. in addition to risk factors discussed in md&a under “critical accounting estimates” and elsewhere in this report, we believe the following, which have not been sequenced in any particular order, are the most significant risks related to our business that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. we face risks related to general economic conditions, which may impact the demand for and supply of our products and our results of operations. demand for our products depends in part on the general economic conditions affecting the united states and, to a lesser extent, the rest of the world. although our diverse product offering and customer base help provide some stability to our business in difficult times, a broad decline in general economic conditions could result in customers postponing capital projects and could negatively impact the demand for our products and services as well as our customers’ ability to fulfill their obligations to us. falling demand could lead to lower sales volumes, lower pricing and/or lower profit margins. a protracted period of lower product demand and profitability could result in diminished values for both tangible and intangible assets, increasing the possibility of future impairment charges. further, suppliers could be impacted by an economic downturn, which could impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. if economic conditions deteriorate, our operating profit, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. our financial results may be adversely affected by gas supply disruptions and supply/demand imbalances. we are one of the nation’s leading suppliers of industrial, medical and specialty gases and have supply contracts with the major gas producers. additionally, we operate 16 air separation units, eleven acetylene plants and eight liquid carbon dioxide production facilities, which provide us with substantial production capacity. our supply contracts and our own production capacity mitigate supply disruptions to various degrees. however, natural disasters, plant shut-downs, labor strikes and other supply disruptions may occur within our industry. regional supply disruptions may create shortages of raw materials and certain products. consequently, we may not be able to obtain the products required to meet our customers’ demands or may incur significant costs to ship product from other regions of the country to meet customer requirements. such additional costs may adversely impact operating results until product sourcing can be restored. when we experience supply shortages, we work to meet customer demand by arranging for alternative supplies and transporting product into an affected region, but we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in arranging alternative product supplies or passing the additional transportation or other costs on to customers in the event of future supply disruptions, which could negatively impact our operations, financial results or liquidity. supply and demand imbalances in the marketplace may also adversely impact our results of operations. the march 2013 epa ruling allowed for an increase in the production and import of r-22 in calendar years 2013 and 2014, rather than reaffirming the further reductions that much of the industry, including airgas, had been expecting based on a previously issued no action assurances letter from the epa. with respect to our refrigerants business, the decision pressured both volumes and pricing of r-22 in fiscal 2014, as a greater-than-expected amount of virgin r-22 has been available in the marketplace. the industry is currently awaiting a final ruling from the epa on the pace and magnitude of the reduction in allowable production of r-22 for the calendar year 2015 to 2019 time period, after which it must go to zero. although we believe our refrigerants business remains well-positioned to benefit from the anticipated production and import reductions as a leading reclaimer and recycler of r-22, we cannot predict the timing and content of the final ruling or the timing and speed of the transition to the use of reclaimed and recycled r-22, or the impact of the ruling on the prevailing supply and demand imbalance of r-22. a protracted period of lower product demand and profitability could result in diminished values for both tangible and intangible assets related to this business, increasing the possibility of future impairment charges. we may be subject to failures related to our information technology systems and e-business platform, including network disruptions and data security breaches, and are subject to complex and evolving data privacy laws. we rely on information technology systems for business and operational activities, including the storage and processing of proprietary and sensitive information. these systems are susceptible to disruptions as a result of events such as fires, natural disasters, telecommunication breakdowns, power outages, security breaches and cyberattacks. additionally, we have invested significant resources in the enhancement of our e-business platform, a new version of which will launch in early fiscal 2015. although we have well-defined processes, procedures and internal controls designed to address these risks to our information technology systems and mitigate any potential business and operational disruptions, several recent high profile cybersecurity breaches at a number of large u.s. companies have occurred. failures of our information technology systems from such events and increasingly sophisticated technologies and threats to cybersecurity could expose us to operational disruptions, loss or disclosure of confidential information and regulatory actions, adversely impacting our operations, reputation and financial results. 11 table of contents our business is subject to complex and evolving u.s. and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and other matters. we could be liable for loss or misuse of our customers’ personal information and/or our employees’ personally-identifiable information if we fail to prevent or mitigate such misuse or breach. although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer and employee information and prevent misuse of such information and other security breaches, failure to prevent or mitigate such misuse or breaches may affect our reputation and operating results negatively and may require significant management time and attention. catastrophic events and operating failures may disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results. although our operations are widely distributed across the u.s., and safety is a primary focus in all we do, we manage and distribute hazardous materials and a catastrophic event could result in significant property losses, injuries and third-party claims. examples of such events include, but are not limited to, the following: a fire, explosion or release of hazardous materials at one of our facilities, a supplier’s facility or a customer’s facility; a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado or earthquake; and an operating failure at one of our facilities or in connection with the delivery of our products. additionally, such events may severely impact our regional customer base and supply sources resulting in lost revenues, higher product costs and increased bad debts. operational and execution risks may adversely impact our financial results. our operating results are reliant on the continued operation of our production and distribution facilities and delivery fleet, as well as our ability to meet customer requirements. inherent in our operations are risks that require continuous oversight and control, such as risks related to mechanical failure, fire, explosion, toxic releases and vehicle accidents. we have established policies, procedures and safety protocols in place requiring continuous training, oversight and control in order to address these risks to our operations. however, significant operating failures at our production, distribution or storage facilities, or vehicle transportation accidents, could result in loss of life, loss of production or distribution capabilities, and/or damage to the environment, thereby adversely impacting our financial results. these factors could subject us to lost sales, litigation contingencies and reputational risk. u.s. credit markets may impact our ability to obtain financing or increase the cost of future financing. as of march 31, 2014, we had total consolidated debt of approximately $2.5 billion, which had an average length to maturity of approximately three years and includes $400 million of long-term debt obligations maturing during the year ending march 31, 2015. during periods of volatility and disruption in the u.s. credit markets, obtaining additional or replacement financing may be more difficult and costly. higher cost of new debt may limit our ability to finance future acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. additionally, although we actively manage our interest rate risk through the use of diversified debt obligations and occasionally, derivative instruments, approximately 30% of our debt has a variable interest rate. if interest rates increase, our interest expense could increase, affecting earnings and reducing cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. based on our outstanding borrowings at march 31, 2014, for every 25 basis-point increase in the london interbank offered rate (“libor”), we estimate that our annual interest expense would increase by approximately $1.9 million. finally, our cost of borrowing can be affected by debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based in large part on our performance as measured by certain liquidity metrics. an adverse change in these debt ratings could increase the cost of borrowing and make it more difficult to obtain financing on favorable terms. we operate in a highly competitive environment and such competition could negatively impact us. the u.s. industrial gas industry operates in a highly competitive environment. competition is generally based on price, reliable product delivery, product availability, technical support, quality and service. if we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, we may suffer lower revenue and/or a loss of market share, which could result in lower profits and adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows. increases in product and energy costs could reduce our profitability. the cost of industrial gases represents a significant percentage of our operating costs. the production of industrial gases requires significant amounts of electric energy. therefore, industrial gas prices have historically increased as the cost of electric power increases. price increases for oil and natural gas have historically resulted in electric power surcharges. severe weather conditions, such as those experienced across much of the u.s. during the three months ended march 31, 2014, can adversely impact both our sales and expenses, and cause an imbalance in the timing and extent to which we can recoup those costs from our customers. in addition, a significant portion of our distribution expenses consists of fuel costs. energy prices can be volatile and may rise in the future, resulting in an increase in the cost of industrial gases and/or the cost to distribute them. while we 12 table of contents have historically been able to pass increases in the cost of our products and operating expenses on to our customers, we cannot guarantee our ability to do so in the future, which could negatively impact our operations, financial results or liquidity. we may not be successful in integrating acquisitions and achieving intended benefits and synergies. we have successfully integrated nearly 450 acquisitions in our history and consider the acquisition and integration of businesses to be a core competency. however, the process of integrating acquired businesses into our operations may result in unexpected operating difficulties and may require significant financial and other resources. unexpected difficulties may impair our ability to achieve targeted synergies or planned operating results, which could diminish the value of acquired tangible and intangible assets resulting in future impairment charges. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • acquired companies may not have internal control structures appropriate for a larger public company resulting in a need for significant revisions; • acquired operations, information systems and products may be difficult to integrate; • acquired operations may not achieve targeted synergies; • we may not be able to retain key employees, customers and business relationships of acquired companies; and • our management team may have its attention and resources diverted from ongoing operations. we depend on our key personnel to manage our business effectively and they may be difficult to replace. our performance substantially depends on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and key employees. furthermore, much of our competitive advantage is based on the expertise, experience and know-how of our key personnel regarding our distribution infrastructure, systems and products. the loss of key employees could have a negative effect on our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to litigation and reputational risk as a result of the nature of our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. from time-to-time, we are involved in lawsuits that arise from our business. litigation may, for example, relate to product liability claims, personal injury, property damage, vehicle accidents, regulatory issues, contract disputes or employment matters. the occurrence of any of these matters could also create possible damage to our reputation. the defense and ultimate outcome of lawsuits against us may result in higher operating expenses. higher operating expenses or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, including to our liquidity, results of operations or financial condition. we have established insurance programs with significant deductibles and maximum coverage limits which could result in the recognition of significant losses. we maintain insurance coverage for workers’ compensation, business automobile and general liability claims with significant per claim deductibles. in the past, we have incurred significant workers’ compensation, business automobile and general liability losses. such losses could impact our profitability. additionally, claims in excess of our insurance limits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we are subject to extensive government regulation relating to health, safety and environmental matters, as well as anti-corruption laws, that generate ongoing compliance costs and could subject us to liability. we are subject to laws and regulations relating to health, safety and the protection of the environment and natural resources, as well as regulations related to social policy. these include, among other things, reporting on chemical inventories and risk management plans, and management of hazardous substances and wastes, air emissions and water discharges. more recently, we have examined our supply chain with respect to certain products we manufacture or contract to manufacture as a result of new regulations around the use of conflict minerals. violations of existing laws and enactment of future legislation and regulations could result in substantial penalties, temporary or permanent plant closures and legal consequences, as well as reputational and other risks. moreover, the nature of our existing and historical operations exposes us to the risk of liabilities to third parties. these potential claims include property damage, personal injuries and cleanup obligations. see item 1, “environmental matters” for additional details. the issue of greenhouse gas emissions has been subject to increased scrutiny and public awareness, and may result in legislation, both internationally and in the u.s., to reduce its effects. increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose additional costs on us, both directly through new compliance and reporting requirements as well as indirectly through increased industrial gas and energy costs. until such time as any new legislation is passed, it will remain unclear as to what industries would be impacted, the period of time within which compliance would be required, the significance of the greenhouse gas emissions reductions and the costs of compliance. although we do not believe that increased greenhouse gas 13 table of contents emissions regulation will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, we cannot provide assurance that such costs will not increase in the future or will not become material. although our operations are predominantly in the united states, we conduct operations internationally in canada, mexico, russia, dubai and several european countries. our international operations are subject to u.s. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and anti-corruption laws of the various jurisdictions in which we operate. we maintain policies and procedures designed to comply with anti-corruption laws. however, there can be no guarantee that these policies and procedures will effectively prevent violations by our employees or representatives in the future. item 1b. unresolved