item 1a. risk factors an investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider these risks as well as the other information we include or incorporate by reference in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. the risks and uncertainties we have described are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or that we deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. if any of these risks materializes, the trading price of our common stock could fall and you might lose all or part of your investment. this section includes or refers to forward-looking statements. you should read the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on such forward-looking statements discussed at the beginning of the report. risks related to our business we have incurred losses in previous periods and may incur losses in future periods. for the years ended march 31, 2014 and 2013, we recognized net income of approximately $7.4 million and $15.0 million, respectively. for the year ended march 31, 2012, we were essentially break-even as we recognized a net income of $1.5 million. prior to fiscal 2012, we had incurred losses and had no history of profitability. the profitability we achieved in recent years may not be indicative of our ability to   13 table of contents sustain profitability and we may incur losses from operations in future periods. we historically have incurred net losses from our operations. any losses incurred in the future may result primarily from, among other things, the expansion of our global distribution network, investments in new markets such as japan, ongoing product and clinical development, costs related to new business development initiatives and legal and other expenses related to our compliance with the subpoena received from the u.s. department of justice in october 2012 and the subpoena we received from the boston regional office of the u.s. department of health and human services, office of inspector general in april 2014 and our defense of other legal claims. additionally, due to the introduction of the u.s. medical device tax in january 2013 we began incurring a 2.3% excise tax on the sales of certain of our products in the u.s. regardless of whether we are profitable or not. these expenditures may include costs associated with hiring additional personnel, performing clinical trials, continuing our research and development relating to our products under development, seeking regulatory approvals and, if we receive these approvals, commencing commercial manufacturing and marketing activities. the amount of these expenditures is difficult to forecast accurately and cost overruns may occur. we also expect that we will make significant expenditures to market and manufacture in commercial quantities our approved circulatory care products, and any other new products for which we may incur additional expense to obtain regulatory approvals or clearances in the future. if we fail to obtain and maintain necessary governmental approvals for our products and indications, we may be unable to market and sell our products in certain jurisdictions. medical devices such as ours are extensively regulated by the fda in the u.s. and by other federal, state, local and foreign authorities. governmental regulations relate to the testing, development, manufacturing, labeling, design, sale, promotion, distribution, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. in the u.s., before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we must generally first receive either a premarket approval, or pma, or 510(k) clearance from the fda. both of these processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant expenses, primarily related to clinical trials. the fda’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes between three to twelve months, but it can often last longer. the process of obtaining a pma approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. it generally takes between one to three years, or even longer, from the time the pma application is submitted to the fda. in january 2011, the fda announced plans to make changes to its 510(k) clearance process. although the effect of these changes is still unknown, these changes may further delay the time it takes us to prepare applications for 501(k) clearance or the length of time required to receive 510(k) clearance. we cannot assure you that any regulatory clearances or approvals, either foreign or domestic, will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approvals or clearances for use of our products under development, or if the patient populations for which they are approved are not sufficiently broad, the commercial success of these products could be limited. the fda may also limit the claims that we can make about our products. abiomed will be governed more by the pma and hde processes as it converts its impella products from the 510(k) clearance to the pma approvals which were called for under the fda 515i program.pma and hde approvals can be supplemented (“pma or hde supplements”) with applications that propose new products that address the same intended use or for new intended uses for the approved products.fda has indicated it will allow for all impella products to remain on the market while this conversion takes place. if we do not receive fda approval or clearance for one or more of our products, we will be unable to market and sell those products in the u.s. which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and prospects. we intend to market our products in international markets, including the european union, canada, and japan. approval processes differ among those jurisdictions and approval in the u.s. or any other single jurisdiction does not guarantee approval in any other jurisdiction. obtaining foreign approvals could involve significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and could require additional clinical trials. as a result of determinations made under the fda’s 515 program initiative, we will not be permitted to rely on the 510(k) pre-market notification process to market our impella products. the fda implemented the 515 program initiative in 2009 to facilitate the potential reclassification of twenty-six classes of medical devices which are currently classified as class iii devices. class i and ii devices are generally considered to be lower risk than class iii devices and require clearance through the fda’s 510(k) premarket notification process. class iii devices, however, are typically higher risk and first-of-a-kind and require approval through a pma which is a much more costly and uncertain process to approval than the 510(k) premarket notification process. under the 515 program initiative, the fda is reviewing class iii device types to determine whether any of them should be reclassified as class i or ii devices or if they should remain classified as class iii devices and be subject to approval through the pma process. in december 2012, as part of the 515 program initiative, an fda panel voted to recommend continuation of class iii status for the temporary ventricular support devices within the non-roller type cardiopulmonary bypass blood pumps category, which includes our impella products. the panel’s recommendation of class iii for this category of device is consistent with the current class iii designation for these device types. if the fda accepts the panel’s determination and issues a final order classifying these devices in class iii, we will have 90 days from the date of the issuance of that order to file a pma application for impella 2.5 in order for the product to remain on the market. under the 515 program initiative, we will be permitted to continue to market our impella products pursuant to the 510(k) clearance for a sufficient period of time to allow for the submission and review of pma applications relating to our impella products. as of march 31, 2014, we submitted the final module of the modular pma application to the fda for our impella 2.5 device. the pma will be treated as a standard pma and all modules will now be combined for final review by the fda.   14 table of contents although the effect of the fda panel’s decision is still unknown, these changes will make it more difficult for us to obtain regulatory clearances and approvals for our products and even if we are successful, the time and costs required for us to obtain those clearances and approvals will be substantially increased. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approvals or clearances for use of our products, or if the patient populations for which they are approved are not sufficiently broad, the commercial success of these products could be limited, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues. if the fda or another regulatory or enforcement agency determines that we have promoted off-label use of our products, we may be subject to various penalties, including civil or criminal penalties. we have received an administrative subpoena from the u.s. department of justice which is conducting an investigation that is focused on our marketing and labeling of the impella 2.5 device. the fda, the u.s. department of justice, the department of health and human services, office of the inspector general and other regulatory or enforcement agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label use and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. if such agency determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, such agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. in june 2011 we received a warning letter from the fda stating that some of our promotional materials marketed the impella 2.5 for uses that had not been approved by the fda. we cooperated with the fda and made changes to our promotional materials in response to the warning letter. however, in april 2012, we received a follow up letter from the fda stating that some of our promotional materials continued to market the impella 2.5 in ways that are not compliant with fda regulations. after additional actions by us, we received a close-out letter in february 2013 from the fda with respect to this matter, which noted that the fda’s office of compliance had completed its review of the corrective actions we took in response to the warning letter and that the concerns cited appeared to have been addressed. the close-out letter, however, provides no assurance that there may not be other occurrences that may be subject to regulatory or enforcement action. on october 26, 2012, we were informed that the united states attorney’s office for the district of columbia is conducting an investigation that is focused on our marketing and labeling of the impella 2.5. on october 31, 2012, we accepted service of a subpoena related to this investigation seeking documents related to the impella 2.5. we believe we have substantially complied with the subpoena and have submitted the requested documents to the united states attorney’s office. on september 13, 2013, we entered into a tolling agreement with the united states attorney’s office, pursuant to which we and the united states attorney’s office mutually agreed to toll the applicable statutes of limitations for all criminal, civil and administrative offenses and violations that could be charged or claimed against us as of that date until june 2, 2014. on may 27, 2014, we executed an extension of the tolling agreement through february 2, 2015. because the investigation is in the early stages, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome or determine whether a liability has been incurred or make an estimate of the reasonably possible liability, if any, that could result from any unfavorable outcome associated with this inquiry. we have incurred significant expenses related to this investigation, and we expect to continue to incur additional expenses in the future. we may not be able to resolve these matters, or any similar matters that may come up in the future, without incurring penalties or facing significant consequences. even if we are successful in resolving this matter without incurring penalties, responding to the subpoena has resulted and in the future will likely result in substantial costs and could significantly and adversely impact our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and ability to finance our operations. off-label use of our products may result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business. the use of our products outside the indications cleared for use, or “off-label use,” may increase the risk of injury to patients. clinicians may use our products for off-label uses, as the fda does not restrict or regulate a clinician’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. off-label use of our products may increase the risk of product liability claims against us. product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management’s attention and result in substantial damage awards against us. we have been named as a party to purported stockholder class actions and a derivative action, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which may require significant management time and attention, and result in significant legal expenses and may result in an unfavorable outcome, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. on november 16 and 19, 2012, two purported class action complaints were filed against us and certain of our officers in the u.s. district court for the district of massachusetts by alleged purchasers of our common stock, on behalf of themselves and persons or entities that purchased or acquired our securities between august 5, 2011 and october 31, 2012. the complaints alleged that the defendants violated the federal securities laws in connection with disclosures related to the fda and the marketing and labeling of our impella 2.5 product and seek damages in an unspecified amount. the court has consolidated these complaints and a consolidated amended complaint was filed by the plaintiffs on may 20, 2013. on july 8, 2013, we filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated class action. oral arguments on our motion to dismiss were conducted before the presiding district court judge on september 18, 2013. on april 10, 2014, the u.s. district court entered an order granting our motion and dismissed the consolidated and amended complaint. on may 9, 2014, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal.   15 table of contents on february 4, 2013, an alleged stockholder of the company filed a derivative action on our behalf against each of our directors in the u.s. district court for the district of massachusetts. the complaint alleged that the directors breached their fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders in connection with disclosures related to the fda and the marketing and labeling of our impella 2.5 product and sought damages in an unspecified amount. on march 22, 2013, we filed a motion to dismiss the derivative action. on june 21, 2013, the district court granted our motion to dismiss. the plaintiff has appealed the dismissal to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit. oral argument was conducted before the appellate court on february 5, 2014. we intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously. we cannot be assured, however, that we will be successful. we may have to pay damage awards, indemnify our officers and directors from damage awards that may be entered against them or otherwise may enter into settlement arrangements in connection with such claims. any such payments or settlement arrangements in these current litigations or any future litigation could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition. even if the plaintiffs’ claims are not successful, defending these litigations could result in substantial costs and significantly and adversely impact our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and ability to finance our operations. our current and planned clinical trials may not begin on time, or at all, and may not be completed on schedule, or at all. in order to obtain pma approval and in some cases, 510(k) clearance, we may be required to conduct well-controlled clinical trials designed to test the safety and effectiveness of the product. in order to conduct clinical studies, we must generally receive an investigational device exemption, or ide, for each device from the fda. an ide allows us to use an investigational device in a clinical trial to collect data on safety and effectiveness that will support an application for premarket approval or 510(k) clearance from the fda. we have received ide approval and completed the clinical trial for our impella rp and are preparing to file an hde and have closed our portable driver ide study due to lack of enrollment. in december 2010, we announced the termination of our protect ii study based on a futility determination at the planned interim analysis regarding the primary end-point, which we view as likely to be due to unanticipated confounding variables related to the use of rotational atherectomy in the study. conducting clinical trials is a long, expensive and uncertain process that is subject to delays and failure at any stage. clinical trials can take months or years to complete. the commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted for numerous reasons, including:     •   the fda may not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or may place a clinical trial on hold;     •   subjects may not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect and/or subjects may not be followed-up on at the rate we expect;     •   subjects may experience adverse side effects or events related or unrelated to our products;     •   third-party clinical investigators may not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol and good clinical practices, or other third-party organizations may not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner;     •   the interim results of any of our clinical trials may be inconclusive or negative;     •   regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities may require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials if investigators find us not to be in compliance with regulatory requirements;     •   510(k) clearance of our devices may have the effect of slowing down the progress of related clinical trials since physicians can use our cleared devices commercially outside of the trials;     •   our manufacturing process may not produce finished products that conform to design and performance specifications; or     •   governmental regulations or administrative actions may change and impose new requirements, particularly on reimbursement. the results of pre-clinical studies do not necessarily predict future clinical trial results and previous clinical trial results may not be repeated in subsequent clinical trials. we may suffer delays, cost overruns and terminate manufacturing of certain of our products despite achieving promising results in pre-clinical testing or early clinical testing. in addition, the data obtained from clinical trials may be inadequate to support approval or clearance of a submission. the fda may disagree with our interpretation of the data from our clinical trials, or may find the clinical trial design, conduct or results inadequate to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the product candidate. the fda may also require us to conduct additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials which could further delay approval of our products. the fda or other international regulatory agencies will require post market studies which can be burdensome and expensive. if we are unable to receive fda approval of an ide to conduct clinical trials or the trials are halted by the fda or others or if we are unsuccessful in receiving fda approval of a product candidate, we would not be able to sell or promote the product candidate in the u.s., which could seriously harm our business. moreover, we face similar risks in each jurisdiction in which we sell or propose to sell our products. if we make modifications to a product, whether in response to results of clinical testing or otherwise, we could be required to start our clinical trials over, which could cause serious delays that would adversely affect our results of operations. even modest changes to certain components of our products could result in months or years of additional clinical trials.   16 table of contents our products are subject to extensive regulatory requirements, including continuing regulatory review, which could affect the manufacturing and marketing of our products. the fda and other regulatory agencies continue to review products even after they have received initial approval. if and when the fda or another regulatory agency clears or approves our products under development, the manufacture and marketing of these products will be subject to continuing regulation, including compliance with the fda’s adverse event reporting requirements, prohibitions on promoting a product for unapproved uses, and quality system regulation, or qsr, requirements, which obligate manufacturers, including third-party and contract manufacturers, to adhere to stringent design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the design and manufacture of a device. any modification to an fda-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or pma approval. the fda requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda may review any such decision. modifications of this type are common with new products. we anticipate that the first generation of each of our products will undergo a number of changes, refinements, enhancements and improvements over time. if the fda requires us to seek clearance or approval for modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. we also cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. we and our third-party suppliers of product components are also subject to inspection and market surveillance by the fda and other regulatory agencies for qsr and other requirements, the interpretation of which can change. compliance with qsr and similar legal requirements can be difficult and expensive. enforcement actions resulting from failure to comply with government requirements could result in fines, suspensions of approvals or clearances, recalls or seizure of products, operating restrictions or shutdown, and criminal prosecutions that could adversely affect the manufacture and marketing of our products. the fda or another regulatory agency could withdraw a previously approved product from the market upon receipt of newly discovered information, including a failure to comply with regulatory requirements, the occurrence of unanticipated problems with products following approval, or other reasons, which could adversely affect our operating results. even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, our products may be subject to product recalls which may harm our reputation and divert our managerial and financial resources. the fda and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to order mandatory recall of our products or order their removal from the market if the governmental entity finds that our products might cause adverse health consequences or death. a government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including labeling defects. we have in the past initiated voluntary recalls of some of our products and we could do so in the future. any recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers and divert managerial and financial resources. we depend on third-party reimbursement to our customers for market acceptance of our products. if third-party payers fail to provide appropriate levels of reimbursement for purchase and use of our products, our sales and profitability would be adversely affected. sales of medical devices largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government health care programs and private health insurers. without the financial support of government reimbursement or third-party insurers’ payments for patient care, the market for our products will be limited. medical products and devices incorporating new technologies are closely examined by governments and private insurers to determine whether the products and devices will be covered by reimbursement, and if so, the level of reimbursement which may apply. we cannot be sure that additional third-party payers will cover and/or adequately reimburse sales of our products or other products under development, to enable us to sell them at profitable prices. in addition, third-party payers are increasingly requiring evidence that medical devices are cost-effective. if we are unable to meet the standards of a third-party payer, that payer may not reimburse the use of our products, which could reduce sales of our products to healthcare providers who depend upon reimbursement for payment. we also cannot be sure that third-party payers will continue the current level of reimbursement to physicians and medical centers for use of our products. any reduction in the amount of this reimbursement could harm our business. changes in health care reimbursement systems in the u.s. and abroad could reduce our revenues and profitability. in march 2010, the federal government enacted healthcare reform legislation. the legislation has changed the manner in which healthcare services are provided and paid for in the u.s. these changes may impact reimbursement for health care services, including reimbursement to hospitals and physicians. states may also enact further legislation that impacts medicaid payments to hospitals and   17 table of contents physicians. in addition, the centers for medicare & medicaid services, or cms, the federal agency responsible for administering the medicare program in the u.s., has established new payment levels for hospitals and physicians in line with the new legislation, which can increase or decrease payment to such entities. the healthcare reform legislation and any future legislative, regulatory and reimbursement initiatives or changes to the reimbursement for our products could adversely affect demand for our products and have a material adverse impact on our revenues. our business and results of operations could therefore be adversely affected by the current healthcare reform legislation as well as future healthcare reform or regulatory actions. internationally, medical reimbursement systems vary significantly from country to country, with some countries limiting medical centers spending through fixed budgets, regardless of levels of patient treatment, and other countries requiring application for, and approval of, government or third-party reimbursement. even if we succeed in bringing our new products to market, uncertainties regarding future healthcare policy, legislation and regulation, as well as private market practices, could affect our ability to sell our products in commercially acceptable quantities at profitable prices. we must comply with healthcare “fraud and abuse” laws, and we could face substantial penalties for non-compliance and be excluded from government healthcare programs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients’ rights may be applicable to our business. we may be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. the laws that may affect our ability to operate include:     •   the federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute, which prohibits, among other things, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce (i) the referral of an individual, for an item or service, or (ii) the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the medicare and medicaid programs;     •   federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us that promote medical devices, provide medical device management services and may provide coding and billing advice to customers;     •   the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and     •   state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ in significant ways from state to state and often are not preempted by hipaa, thus complicating compliance efforts. additionally, the compliance environment is changing, with more states, such as california and massachusetts, mandating implementation of compliance programs, compliance with industry ethics codes, and spending limits, and other states, such as vermont, maine, and minnesota, requiring reporting to state governments of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. the physician payments sunshine act, or ppsa, which was signed into law on march 23, 2010, requires manufacturers of drug, device, biologics, and medical supplies covered under medicare, medicaid, or state children’s health insurance program, or schip, to report payments made to physicians on an annual basis to the u.s. department of health and human services, or hhs. companies were required to start collecting this data on august 1, 2013 and are required to report this information to hhs in 2014. these laws all provide for penalties for non-compliance. the shifting regulatory environment, along with the requirement to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and reporting requirements, increases the possibility that we may run afoul of one or more laws. on april 25, 2014, we received a subpoena from the boston regional office of the united states department of health and human services, office of inspector general requesting materials relating to our reimbursement of expenses and remuneration to healthcare providers during the period of july 2012 through december 2012. many of these requirements are new and their application is uncertain, and regulatory guidance is limited. we could face enforcement action, fines and other penalties and could receive adverse publicity, all of which could harm our business, if it is alleged that we have failed to fully comply with such laws and regulations. similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities that we do business with are found not to comply with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on our business.   18 table of contents we depend on impella products for a significant portion of our revenues. we derive, and expect to continue to derive, most of our revenues from sales of our impella products. while we cannot fully predict what level of revenues our impella products will generate, we anticipate that impella product sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. implementation of our business strategy depends on continued sales of our impella products. our ability to generate sales of our impella products may be impaired by the factors described below:     •   our failure to obtain approvals from the fda and foreign regulatory authorities or to comply with government regulations, or the withdrawal of market clearance or the taking of other enforcement actions;     •   lack of acceptance or continued acceptance by physicians;     •   our reliance on specialized suppliers for certain components and materials;     •   manufacturing or quality control problems;     •   our inability to protect our proprietary technologies or an infringement of others’ patents;     •   the loss of a distributor or distributor failure to perform;     •   our failure to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors;     •   additional risks associated with selling in international markets;     •   long and variable sales and deployment cycles;     •   failure by third-party payors to provide appropriate levels of reimbursement;     •   our failure to comply with federal and state regulations; and     •   product liability claims. if we fail to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors, our sales or operating results may be harmed. competition from other companies offering circulatory care products is intense and subject to rapid technological change and evolving industry requirements and standards. we compete with companies that have substantially greater or broader financial, product development, sales and marketing resources and experience than we do. these competitors may develop superior products or products of similar quality at the same or lower prices. moreover, improvements in current or new technologies may make them technically equivalent or superior to our products in addition to providing cost or other advantages. our customers are primarily hospitals that have limited budgets. as a result, our products compete against a broad range of medical devices and other therapies for these limited funds. our success will depend in large part upon our ability to enhance our existing products, to develop new products to meet regulatory and customer requirements and to achieve market acceptance for our products. we believe that important competitive factors with respect to the development and commercialization of our products include the relative speed with which we can develop products, establish clinical utility, complete clinical trials and regulatory approval processes, obtain and protect reimbursement, maintain cost effectiveness for our products, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. advances in medical technology, biotechnology and pharmaceuticals may reduce the size of the potential markets for our products or render those products obsolete. we are aware of other heart replacement device research efforts in the u.s., canada, europe and japan. in addition, there are a number of companies; including getinge, thoratec corporation, cardiacassist, jarvik heart, heartware, micromed technology, evaheart, terumo heart and several early-stage companies, that are developing heart assist products, including implantable left ventricular assist devices and miniaturized rotary ventricular assist devices. if we do not effectively manage our growth, we may be unable to successfully develop, market and sell our products. our future revenue and operating results will depend on our ability to manage the anticipated growth of our business. we have experienced significant growth in recent years in the scope of our operations and increased the number of our employees. this growth has placed significant demands on our management as well as our financial and operations resources. in order to achieve our business objectives, we will need to continue to grow. however, continued growth presents numerous challenges, including:     •   developing our global sales and marketing infrastructure and capabilities;     •   expanding manufacturing capacity, maintaining quality and increasing production;     •   increasing our foreign and domestic regulatory compliance capabilities;   19 table of contents   •   implementing appropriate operational, financial and it systems and internal controls;     •   identifying, attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly experienced clinical staff; and     •   training, managing and supervising our personnel worldwide. any failure to manage our growth effectively could impede our ability to successfully develop, market and sell our products, which could seriously harm our business. the demand for some of our products and products under development is unproven, and we may be unable to successfully commercialize our products. our products and products under development may not enjoy commercial acceptance or success, which could adversely affect our business and operational results. we need to create markets for our impella micro heart pumps, ab5000, and other existing products, as well as other new or future products, including achieving market acceptance among physicians, medical centers, patients and third-party payers. in particular, we need to gain acceptance of our impella products among interventional cardiologists, who have not previously been users of our other devices. the obstacles we will face in trying to create successful commercial markets for our products include:     •   limitations inherent in first-generation devices, and our potential inability to develop successive improvements, including increases in service life;     •   the introduction by other companies of new treatments, products and technologies that compete with our products;     •   the timing and amount of reimbursement for these products, if any, by third-party payers;     •   the potential reluctance of clinicians to obtain adequate training to use our products or to use new products;     •   the cost of our products; and     •   the potential reluctance of physicians, patients and society as a whole to accept medical devices that replace or assist the heart and risk of mechanical failure inherent in such devices. our future success depends in part on the development of new circulatory assist products, and our development efforts may not be successful. we are devoting most of our research and development and regulatory efforts, and significant financial resources, to the development of our impella heart pumps, symphony and product extensions of existing commercial products and new products. the development of new products and product extensions presents enormous challenges in a variety of areas, including blood compatible surfaces, blood compatible flow, manufacturing techniques, pumping mechanisms, physiological control, energy transfer, anatomical fit and surgical techniques. we may be unable to overcome all of these challenges, which could adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. the commercial success of our products will require acceptance by surgeons and interventional cardiologists, a limited number of whom have significant influence over medical device selection and purchasing decisions. we may achieve our business objectives only if our products are accepted and recommended by leading cardiovascular surgeons and interventional cardiologists, whose decisions are likely to be based on a determination by these clinicians that our products are safe and cost-effective and represent acceptable methods of treatment. although we have developed relationships with leading cardiac surgeons, the commercial success of our impella and other products will require that we also develop relationships with leading interventional cardiologists in cath labs, where we have not historically had a significant presence. we cannot assure you that we can maintain our existing relationships and arrangements or that we can establish new relationships in support of our products. if cardiovascular surgeons and interventional cardiologists do not consider our products to be adequate for the treatment of our target cardiac patient population or if a sufficient number of these clinicians recommend and use competing products, it would seriously harm our business. the training required for clinicians to use our products could reduce the market acceptance of our products and reduce our revenue. clinicians must be trained to use our products proficiently. it is critical to the success of our business that we ensure that there are a sufficient number of clinicians familiar with, trained on and proficient in the use of our products. convincing clinicians to dedicate the time and energy necessary to obtain adequate training in the use of our products is challenging and we may not be successful in these efforts. if clinicians are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. any improper use of our products may result in unsatisfactory outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could harm our reputation and affect future product sales. furthermore, our inability to educate and train clinicians to use our products may lead to lower demand for our products.   20 table of contents if we are unable to develop additional, high-quality manufacturing capacity, our growth may be limited and our business could be seriously harmed. to be successful, we believe we will need to increase our manufacturing capacity. we do not have experience in manufacturing our impella products in the commercial quantities that might be required to meet potential demand, nor do we have experience manufacturing our other products in large quantities. we may encounter difficulties in scaling up manufacturing of our products, including problems related to product yields, quality control and assurance, component and service availability, dependable sources of supply, adequacy of control policies and procedures and lack of skilled personnel. if we cannot hire, train and retain enough experienced and capable scientific and technical workers, we may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our current or future products on-time and at an acceptable cost, which could limit market acceptance of our products or otherwise damage our business. in order for our manufacturing to meet the expected demand for our impella products, we have been implementing process improvements on the impella production line at our manufacturing facility in aachen, germany to increase the output that we can produce at the facility. in addition to programs designed to further increase yield and capacity levels, we have expanded manufacturing employment in aachen and danvers and relocated selected impella sub-assembly production to our manufacturing facility in danvers, massachusetts. we continue to work on initiatives to expand our impella manufacturing capacity in both aachen and danvers. if we are unable to implement these process improvements on a timely basis, it could inhibit our revenue growth. each of our products is currently manufactured in a single location, and any significant disruption in production could impair our ability to deliver our products. we currently manufacture our impella heart pumps at our facility in aachen, germany and we manufacture our other products and certain impella subassemblies at our facility in danvers, massachusetts. events such as fire, flood, loss of electricity or other disasters could prevent us from manufacturing our products in compliance with applicable fda and other regulatory requirements, which could result in significant delays before we restore production or commence production at another site. these delays may result in lost sales. our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. any significant disruption in the manufacturing of our products could seriously harm our business and results of operations. any failure to achieve and maintain the high manufacturing standards that our products require may seriously harm our business. our products require precise, high-quality manufacturing. achieving precision and quality control requires skill and diligence by our personnel. our failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, design defects or component failures, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. we have from time to time voluntarily recalled certain products. despite our very high manufacturing standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of errors, defects or failures. if we are unable to manufacture our products in accordance with necessary quality standards, or if we are unable to procure additional high-quality manufacturing facilities, our business and results of operations may be negatively affected. if we cannot attract and retain key management, scientific, sales and other personnel we need, we will not be successful. we depend heavily on the contributions of the principal members of our business, financial, technical, sales and support, regulatory and clinical, operating and administrative management and staff, many of whom would be difficult to replace. our key personnel include our senior officers, many of whom have very specialized scientific, medical or operational knowledge. the loss of the service of any of the key members of our senior management team may significantly delay or prevent our achievement of our business objectives. our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, consultants and advisors is critical to our success. for example, many of the members of our clinical staff are registered nurses with experience in the surgery suite or cath lab, of which only a limited number of whom seek employment with a company like ours. competition for skilled and experienced personnel in the medical devices industry is intense. we face competition for skilled and experienced management, scientific, clinical, engineering and sales personnel from numerous medical device and life sciences companies, universities, governmental entities and other research institutions. if we lose the services of any of the principal members of our management and staff, or if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, especially scientific and sales personnel, our business could be adversely affected. if our suppliers cannot provide the components we require, our ability to manufacture our products could be harmed. we rely on third-party suppliers to provide us with some components used in our existing products and products under development. for example, we outsource the manufacturing of most of our consoles other than final assembly and testing and the sterilization process for our products. relying on third-party suppliers makes us vulnerable to component part failures/obsolescence and to interruptions in supply, either of which could impair our ability to conduct clinical tests or to ship our products to our customers on a timely basis. using third-party vendors makes it difficult and sometimes impossible for us to test fully certain components, such as components on circuit boards, maintain quality control, manage inventory and production schedules and control production costs. manufacturers of our product components may be required   21 table of contents to comply with the fda or other regulatory manufacturing regulations and to satisfy regulatory inspections in connection with the manufacture of the components. any failure by a supplier to comply with applicable requirements could lead to a disruption in supply. vendor lead times to supply us with ordered components vary significantly and often can exceed six months or more. both now and as we expand our manufacturing capacity, we cannot be sure that our suppliers will furnish us required components when we need them. these factors could make it more difficult for us to manufacture our products effectively and efficiently and could adversely impact our results of operations. some of our suppliers may be the only source for a particular component, which makes us vulnerable to significant cost increases. we have many foreign suppliers for some of our parts in which we are subject to currency exchange rate volatility. vendors that are the sole source of certain products may decide to limit or eliminate sales of certain components to the medical industry due to product liability or other concerns and we might not be able to find a suitable replacement for those products. our inventory may run out before we find alternative suppliers and we might be forced to purchase substantial inventory, if available, to last until we qualify an alternate supplier. if we cannot obtain a necessary component, we may need to find, test and obtain regulatory approval or clearance for a replacement component, produce the component ourselves or redesign the related product, which would cause significant delay and could increase our manufacturing costs. any of these events could adversely impact our results of operations. general economic and political conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business. external factors can affect our profitability and financial condition. such external factors include general domestic and global economic conditions, such as interest rates, tax rates and factors affecting global economic stability, and the political environment regarding healthcare in general. while the economic environment has shown some signs of improvement, the strength and timing of any economic recovery remains uncertain, and we cannot predict to what extent the global economic slowdown may negatively impact our business. for example, an increase in interest rates could result in an increase in our borrowing costs and could otherwise restrict our ability to access the capital markets. negative conditions in the credit and capital markets could impair our ability to access the financial markets for working capital or other funds, and could negatively impact our ability to borrow. such conditions could result in decreased liquidity and impairments in the carrying value of our investments, and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. these and other conditions could also adversely affect our customers, and may impact their ability or decision to purchase our products or make payments on a timely basis. we do business with foreign governments outside the united states. a number of these countries, including certain european countries, have experienced deterioration in credit and economic conditions. these conditions have resulted in, and may continue to result in, a reduction in the number of procedures that use our products and an increase in the average length of time that it takes to collect accounts receivable outstanding in these countries. in addition, we have been and may continue to be impacted by declines in sovereign credit ratings or sovereign defaults in these countries. we may not be successful in expanding our direct sales activities into international markets. we are seeking to expand our international sales of our products by recruiting direct sales and support teams outside the u.s. our international operations in germany, france, canada, japan and the united kingdom will be subject to a number of risks, which may vary from the risks we experience in the u.s., including:     •   the need to obtain regulatory approvals in foreign countries before our products may be sold or used;     •   the need to procure reimbursement for our products in each foreign market;     •   the generally lower level of reimbursement available in foreign markets relative to the u.s.;     •   longer sales cycles;     •   limited protection of intellectual property rights;     •   difficulty and delays in collecting accounts receivable;     •   different income tax and sales tax environments;     •   difficulty in supporting patients using our products;     •   fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; and     •   political and economic instability. if we are unable to effectively expand our sales activities in international markets, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.   22 table of contents we intend to expand our reliance on distributors in some international markets and poor performance by a distributor could reduce our sales and harm our business. we rely on distributors to market and sell our products in certain parts of europe, asia, south america, the middle east and australia. many of these distributors have the exclusive right to distribute our products in their territory. we may hire distributors to market our products in additional international markets. our success in these markets will depend almost entirely upon the efforts of our distributors, over whom we have little or no control. if a distributor does not market and sell our products aggressively and maintain a continued focus on the sale and distribution of our products, we could lose sales and impair our ability to compete in that market. we are also subject to credit risk associated with shipments to our distributors and this could negatively impact our financial condition and liquidity in the future. many of our customer relationships outside of the united states are, either directly or indirectly, with governmental entities, and we could be adversely affected by violations of the united states foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws outside the united states. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. many of our customer relationships outside of the united states are, either directly or indirectly, with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. although our corporate policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our operating results may fluctuate unpredictably. historically, our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated widely and we expect these fluctuations to continue. among the factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate are:     •   the timing of customer orders and deliveries;     •   competitive changes, such as price changes or new product introductions that we or our competitors may make;     •   the timing of regulatory actions, such as product approvals or recalls;     •   costs we incur developing and testing our impella heart pumps and other products;     •   costs we incur in anticipation of future sales, such as inventory purchases, expansion of manufacturing facilities, or establishment of international sales offices;     •   costs we incur in connection with the class action suits and derivative action that has been filed against us;     •   costs we incur in connection with the investigation being conducted by the united states attorney’s office for the district of columbia;     •   additional taxes, such as the medical device tax;     •   timing of certain marketing programs and events;     •   economic conditions in the healthcare industry; and     •   efforts by governments, insurance companies and others to contain health care costs, including changes to reimbursement policies. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results are not necessarily meaningful, and investors should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. to the extent we experience the factors described above, our future operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors from time to time, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. we may be unable to obtain any benefit from our net operating loss carryforwards and research and development credit carryforwards. at march 31, 2014, the company had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, or nols, of approximately $193.0 million which expire in varying years from fiscal 2015 through fiscal 2034. during the year ended march 31, 2014, state nols of approximately $1.2 million expired. in addition, at march 31, 2014, the company had federal and state research and development credit carryforwards of approximately $12.5 million and $5.8 million, respectively, which expire in varying years from fiscal 2015 through fiscal 2034.   23 table of contents we are required to regularly assess our ability to realize our deferred tax assets, including our nols. if we determine that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets may not be realized, then we will be required to release some or all of our valuation allowance for those assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we may not have sufficient funds to develop and commercialize our new products. the development, manufacture and sale of any medical device is very expensive. we cannot be sure that we will have the necessary funds to develop and commercialize our new products, or that additional funds will be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to obtain the necessary funding to develop and commercialize our products, our business may be adversely affected. we believe we have sufficient liquidity to finance our operations for the next fiscal year. we also may evaluate from time to time other financing alternatives as necessary to fund operations. we own patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property and know-how that we believe gives us a competitive advantage. if we cannot protect our intellectual property and develop or otherwise acquire additional intellectual property, competition could force us to lower our prices, which could hurt our profitability. our intellectual property rights are and will continue to be a critical component of our success. a substantial portion of our intellectual property rights relating to the impella products, ab5000, and other products under development is in the form of trade secrets, rather than patents. unlike patents, trade secrets are only recognized under applicable law if they are kept secret by restricting their disclosure to third parties. we protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge in part through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. however, certain consultants and third parties with whom we have business relationships, and to whom in some cases we have disclosed trade secrets and other proprietary knowledge, may also provide services to other parties in the medical device industry, including companies, universities and research organizations that are developing competing products. in addition, some of our former employees who were exposed to certain of our trade secrets and other proprietary knowledge in the course of their employment may seek employment with, and become employed by, our competitors. we cannot be assured that consultants, employees and other third parties with whom we have entered into confidentiality agreements will not breach the terms of such agreements by improperly using or disclosing our trade secrets or other proprietary knowledge, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our trade secrets will not become known to or be independently developed by our competitors. the loss of trade secret protection for technologies or know-how relating to our product portfolio and products under development could adversely affect our business and our prospects. our business position also depends in part on our ability to maintain and defend our existing patents and obtain, maintain, and defend additional patents and other intellectual property rights. we intend to seek additional patents, but our pending and future patent applications may not be approved, may not give us a competitive advantage, could be challenged by others, or if issued, could be deemed invalid or unenforceable. patent prosecution, related proceedings, and litigation in the u.s. and in other countries may be expensive, time consuming and ultimately unsuccessful. in addition, patents issued by foreign countries may afford less protection than is available under u.s. patent law and may not adequately protect our proprietary information. our competitors may independently develop proprietary technologies and processes that are the same as or substantially equivalent to ours or design around our patents. the expiration of patents on which we rely for protection of key products could diminish our competitive advantage and adversely affect our business and our prospects. companies in the medical device industry typically obtain patents and frequently engage in substantial intellectual property litigation. our products and technologies could infringe on the rights of others. if a third-party successfully asserts a claim for infringement against us, we may be liable for substantial damages, be unable to sell products using that technology, or have to seek a license or redesign the related product. these alternatives may be uneconomical or impossible. intellectual property litigation could be costly, result in product development delays and divert the efforts and attention of management from our business. product liability claims could damage our reputation and adversely affect our financial results. the clinical use of medical products, even after regulatory approval, poses an inherent risk of product liability claims. we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage, subject to certain deductibles and exclusions. we cannot be sure that product liability insurance will be available in the future or will be available on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs, or that such insurance will provide us with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also hurt our ability to obtain physician endorsement of our products or expand our business. as we continue to introduce more products, we face an increased risk that a product liability claim will be brought against us. some of our products are designed for patients who suffer from late-stage or end-stage heart failure, and many of these patients do not survive, even when supported by our products. there are many factors beyond our control that could result in patient death, including the condition of the patient prior to use of the product, the skill and reliability of physicians and hospital personnel using and monitoring the product and product maintenance by customers. however, the failure of the products we distribute for clinical testing or sale could give rise to product liability claims and negative publicity.   24 table of contents the risk of product liability claims is heightened when we sell products that are intended to support a patient until the end of life. the finite life of our products, as well as complications associated with their use, could give rise to product liability claims whether or not the products have extended or improved the quality of a patient’s life. if we have to pay product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage, our financial condition will be adversely affected. quality problems can result in substantial costs and inventory write-downs. government regulations require us to track materials used in the manufacture of our products, so that if a problem is identified in one product it can be traced to other products that may have the same problem. an identified quality problem may require reworking or scrapping related inventory and recalling previous shipments. because a malfunction in our products can be life-threatening, we may be required to recall and replace, free of charge, products already in the marketplace. any quality problem could cause us to incur significant expenses, lead to significant write-offs, injure our reputation and harm our business and financial results. disruptions of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could harm our business, customer relations and financial condition. we rely in part on information technology to store information, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and accurately produce our financial statements. if our information technology systems do not effectively and securely collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. our business requires us to use and store customer, vendor, employee and business partner and, in certain instances patient, personally identifiable information. we are subject to various domestic and international privacy and security regulations, including but not limited to the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa. hipaa mandates, among other things, the adoption of uniform standards for the electronic exchange of information in common healthcare transactions, as well as standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, which require the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. in addition, many states have enacted comparable laws addressing the privacy and security of health information, some of which are more stringent than hipaa. if we fail to comply with these standards, we could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions. while we devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our systems and data, including our own proprietary information and the confidential and personally identifiable information of our customers, employees, business partners and patients, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful, resulting potentially in the theft, loss, destruction or corruption of information we store electronically, as well as unexpected interruptions, delays or cessation of service, any of which could cause harm to our business operations. moreover, if a computer security breach or cyber-attack affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of proprietary or personally identifiable information, our reputation could be materially damaged and our operations could be impaired. we would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we acquire other companies or businesses, we will be subject to risks that could hurt our business. we may pursue acquisitions to obtain complementary businesses, products or technologies. any such acquisition may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipate and an acquired business, product or technology might not perform as we expect. our management could spend a significant amount of time, effort and money in identifying, pursuing and completing the acquisition. if we complete an acquisition, we may encounter significant difficulties and incur substantial expenses in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company into our operations. in particular, we may lose the services of key employees of the acquired company and we may make changes in management that impair the acquired company’s relationships with employees, vendors and customers. additionally, we may acquire development-stage companies that are not yet profitable and which require continued investment, which could decrease our future earnings or increase our futures losses. any of these outcomes could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of an acquisition. to pay for an acquisition, we might use stock or cash. alternatively, we might borrow money from a bank or other lender. if we use stock, our stockholders would experience dilution of their ownership interests. if we use cash or debt financing, our financial liquidity would be reduced. as a result of our annual impairment testing, we may be required to capitalize a significant amount of intangibles, including goodwill, which may lead to significant amortization or write-off charges. these amortization charges and write-offs could decrease our future earnings or increase our future losses.   25 table of contents we use estimates, make judgments and apply certain methods in measuring the progress of our business in determining our financial results and in applying our accounting policies. as these estimates, judgments and methods change, our assessment of the progress of our business and our results of operations could vary. the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, complexities, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that may lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. changes in any of our assumptions may cause variation in our reporting and may adversely affect our reported financial results. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported sales and results of operations. because some of our international sales are denominated in local currencies and not in u.s. dollars, our reported sales and earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro. at present, we do not hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. as a result, sales and expenses occurring in the future that are denominated in foreign currencies may be translated into u.s. dollars at less favorable rates, resulting in reduced revenues and earnings. risks related to our common stock the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely and may continue to do so. for example, from april 1, 2013 to march 31, 2014, the price of our stock ranged from a low of $16.05 per share to a high of $30.77 per share. many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall. some of these factors are:     •   variations in our quarterly results of operations;     •   the status of regulatory approvals for our products;     •   the introduction of new products by us or our competitors;     •   acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors;     •   changes in health care policy or third-party reimbursement practices;     •   changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by securities analysts;     •   the hiring or departure of key personnel;     •   results of clinical trials of our products;     •   future sales of shares of common stock in the public market;     •   the outcome of currently pending litigation and governmental investigations; and     •   market conditions in the industry, particularly around reimbursement for our products and the economy as a whole. in addition, the stock market in general and the market for shares of medical device companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years. these fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. when the market price of a company’s stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action litigation against that company. any litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and other resources, or otherwise harm our business. the sale of additional shares of our common stock, or the exercise of outstanding options to purchase our common stock, would dilute our stockholders’ ownership interest. we have issued a substantial number of options to acquire our common stock and we expect to continue to issue options to our employees and others. if all outstanding stock options were exercised, our stockholders would suffer dilution of their ownership interest. in addition, we have issued from time to time, additional shares of our common stock in connection with acquisitions, public offerings, and other activities. future issuances of our common stock would also result in a dilution of our stockholders’ ownership interest. the sale of material amounts of common stock could encourage short sales by third parties and depress the price of our common stock. as a result, our stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. the downward pressure on our stock price caused by the sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock or the perception that such sales could occur by any of our significant stockholders could cause our stock price to decline, thus allowing short sellers of our stock an opportunity to take advantage of any decrease in the value of our stock. the presence of short sellers in our common stock may further depress the price of our common stock.   26 table of contents our certificate of incorporation and delaware law could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us and may prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium on our stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and delaware general corporation law may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would allow our stockholders to receive a premium over the prevailing market price of our stock. those provisions of our certificate of incorporation and delaware law are intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with us and allow our board of directors the opportunity to consider alternative proposals in the interest of maximizing stockholder value. however, such provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control which could negatively affect our stock price. the market value of our common stock could vary significantly based on market perceptions of the status of our development efforts. the perception of securities analysts regarding our product development efforts could significantly affect our stock price. as a result, the market price of our common stock has and could in the future change substantially when we or our competitors make product announcements. many factors affecting our stock price are industry related and beyond our control. we have not paid and do not expect to pay dividends and any return on our stockholders’ investment will likely be limited to the value of our common stock. we have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. the payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. if we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on our stockholders’ investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates.   item 1b. unresolved