item 1a. risk factors our actual operating results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to, those described below.   · flight volume – almost all cbs revenue and approximately 22% of hbs revenue is dependent upon flight volume. approximately 20% of our costs primarily associated with flight operations incurred during the year ended december 31, 2011, also vary with the number of hours flown. poor visibility, high winds, and heavy precipitation can affect the safe operation of aircraft and therefore result in a reduced number of flight hours due to the inability to fly during these conditions. prolonged periods of adverse weather conditions could have an adverse impact on our operating results due to missed flights or reduced demand for service. typically, the months from november through february have lower flight volume due to weather conditions and other factors, resulting in lower cbs operating revenue during these months. flight volume for cbs operations can also be affected by the distribution of calls among competitors by local government agencies and the entrance of new competitors into a market. over the past several years, the increase in the number of air medical helicopters operating within the united states has outpaced trends in the demand for service. demand for air medical transportation may also be unfavorably impacted by an overall slow-down in economic activity; a decrease in road traffic volume because of unusually high spikes in fuel prices or other factors; cost of the service; loss of confidence in certain markets because of recent, high-profile accidents within the air medical industry; or questions regarding the medical necessity for certain transports. in addition, if hospitals within our service areas expand operations to include trauma centers, cardiac catheterization labs, and similar capabilities, the demand for our services may decrease. conversely, a trend toward hospital consolidation may increase demand for air medical transportation. our efforts to consolidate omniflight’s part 135 operating certificate with our own and to upgrade our fleet with new safety technology may result in lower in-service rates over the short term and, therefore, in lower flight volume. finally, a number of our cbs bases are located in rural areas throughout the united states and are difficult to staff with appropriate personnel, resulting in lower in-service rates and, therefore, lower flight volume.     5 table of contents   · collection rates – we respond to calls for air medical transport without pre-screening the creditworthiness of the patient. the cbs division invoices patients and their insurers directly for services rendered and recognizes revenue net of provisions for contractual discounts and estimated uncompensated care. both provisions are estimated during the period the related services are performed based on historical collection experience and any known trends or changes in reimbursement rate schedules and payer mix. the provisions are adjusted as required based on actual collections in subsequent periods. net reimbursement per transport for cbs operations is primarily a function of price, payer mix, and timely and effective collection efforts. to the extent that the complexity associated with billing for our services causes delays in our cash collections, we assume the financial risk of increased carrying costs associated with the aging of our accounts receivable as well as the increased potential for unrecoverable accounts. both the pace of collections and the ultimate collection rate are affected by the overall health of the u.s. economy and the unemployment rate, which impact the number of indigent patients and funding for state-run programs, such as medicaid. medicaid reimbursement rates in many jurisdictions have remained well below the cost of providing air medical transportation. some states have reduced or are planning to reduce medicaid benefits or the number of citizens eligible for benefits. however, medicaid represents a small percentage of the revenue we realize from cbs transports. the collection rate is also impacted by changes in the cost of healthcare and health insurance, as well as economic pressures on employers. as the cost of healthcare increases and businesses explore ways to contain or reduce operating costs, health insurance coverage provided by employers may be reduced or eliminated entirely, resulting in an increase in the uninsured population. a shift of 1% of our payer mix from insured accounts to either medicaid or uninsured accounts would result in a decrease of $7.0 million to $7.8 million in pre-tax operating results. similar to medicaid reimbursement rates, medicare rates are less than the cost of providing air medical transportation, and, therefore, our collection rates may decline as more of the u.s. population becomes eligible for medicare coverage. to the extent that healthcare reform or other forces result in a reversal of the trend away from insurance coverage, reimbursement rates may increase. our ability to collect price increases in our standard charge structure has generally been limited to accounts covered by insurance providers. although we have not yet experienced significant increased limitations in the amount reimbursed by insurance companies, continued price increases may cause insurance companies to limit coverage for air medical transport to amounts less than our standard rates. there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain historical collection rates after the implementation of price increases for cbs transports. · billing investigations and audits – state and federal statutes impose substantial penalties—including civil and criminal fines, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, and imprisonment—on entities or individuals (including any individual corporate officers or physicians deemed responsible) that fraudulently or wrongfully bill governmental or other third-party payers for healthcare services. we believe that audits, inquiries, and investigations from government agencies will continue to occur from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, including as a result of our arrangements with hospitals and healthcare providers. in addition, we may be subject to increased audits from private payers to the extent they encounter pricing pressures related to healthcare reform. this could result in substantial defense costs to us and a diversion of management’s time and attention. such pending or future audits, inquiries, or investigations, or the public disclosure of such matters, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.     6 table of contents   · healthcare reform – one of the key goals of ppaca is to increase access to health benefits for the uninsured or underinsured populations, partially through new federal rules related to private health insurance offerings. ppaca also includes, among other things, medicare payment and delivery reforms aimed at containing costs, rewarding quality, and improving outcomes through coordinated care arrangements. the new federal rules in ppaca may create pricing pressure on private health insurance premiums and, as a result, pricing pressure on providers. ppaca also includes provisions that expand the government’s ability to combat healthcare program fraud, abuse, and waste. ppaca is currently the subject of constitutional challenges in various federal courts, as well as certain legislative initiatives to repeal the healthcare reforms implemented in 2010. in november 2011, the u.s. supreme court granted certiorari to decide whether certain provisions of ppaca are constitutional, and if not, whether the entire law must be struck down. oral arguments will be held in march 2012 and a decision is expected in june 2012. it is unclear whether implementation of ppaca may be delayed or blocked in the future. some states also have pending similar health reform legislative initiatives. · completion and integration of acquisitions – on august 1, 2011, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock of of air holdings corporation, parent company of omniflight helicopters, inc. we expect to continue to seek opportunities to grow through attractive acquisitions. however, acquisitions present a number of challenges, including significant effort to assimilate the operations, financial and accounting practices, and information systems, and to integrate key personnel from the acquired business. to manage our growth effectively, we must expand and improve our operational, financial, and management controls, information systems, and procedures. acquisitions may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management's attention from day-to-day operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the omniflight acquisition or any future acquisitions, profitability may suffer due to acquisition-related costs or unanticipated liabilities, and our stock price may decrease if the financial markets consider any acquisition to be inappropriately priced. · dependence on third party suppliers – we currently obtain a substantial portion of our helicopter spare parts and components from american eurocopter corporation (aec) and bell helicopter, inc. (bell) and maintain supply arrangements with other parties for our engine and related dynamic components. as of december 31, 2011, aec aircraft comprise 81% of our helicopter fleet while bell aircraft constitute 17%. increases in spare parts prices tend to be higher for aircraft which are no longer in production. the ability to pass on price increases may be limited by reimbursement rates established by medicare, medicaid, and insurance providers and by other market considerations. based upon the manufacturing capabilities and industry contacts of aec, bell, and other suppliers, we believe we will not be subject to material interruptions or delays in obtaining aircraft parts and components but do not have an alternative source of supply for aec, bell, and certain other aircraft parts. failure or significant delay by these vendors in providing necessary parts could, in the absence of alternative sources of supply, have a material adverse effect on us. · disposition of aircraft – we are dependent upon the secondary used aircraft market to dispose of older models of aircraft as part of our ongoing fleet rejuvenation efforts. in the past two years, the demand for used aircraft has diminished. if we are unable to dispose of our older aircraft, our aircraft carrying costs may increase above requirements for our current operations, or we may accept lower selling prices, resulting in losses on disposition or reduced gains. the types of aircraft targeted for disposition as part of our fleet rejuvenation usually have lower carrying costs than new aircraft. we have also been able to utilize some aircraft for spare parts to support the operation of our existing fleet, rather than seeking to sell the aircraft to a third party. · employee unionization – our pilots have been represented by a collective bargaining unit since september 2003. after over two and a half years since the expiration of the previous cba, we completed negotiations on a new two-year cba in december 2011. the cba establishes procedures for training, addressing grievances, discipline and discharge, among other matters, and defines vacation, holiday, sick, health insurance, and other employee benefits. wage increases stipulated in the cba are consistent with our expectations of increases for other work groups during the next two years. union personnel have also actively attempted to organize other employee groups in the past, and these groups may elect to be represented by unions in the future.     7 table of contents   · competition – our hbs division faces significant competition from several national and regional air medical transportation providers for contracts with hospitals and other healthcare institutions. a number of hospitals and healthcare institutions have also elected to operate their own part 135 certificate, thereby eliminating the need for a third party to provide air medical transportation services. in addition to the national and regional providers, our cbs division also faces competition from smaller regional carriers and alternative air ambulance providers such as sheriff departments. in some cases advanced life support and critical care transport ground ambulance providers may also be competing for the same transports. air medical operators generally compete on the basis of price, safety record, accident prevention and training, and the medical capability of the aircraft. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully for new or renewing hbs contracts or cbs market share in the future. · aviation industry hazards and insurance limitations – hazards are inherent in the aviation industry and may result in loss of life and property, thereby exposing us to potentially substantial liability claims arising from the operation of aircraft. we may also be sued in connection with medical malpractice claims arising from events occurring during or relating to medical flights. under most hbs operating agreements, our customers have agreed to indemnify us against liability arising from medical malpractice claims and to maintain insurance covering such liability, but there can be no assurance that a hospital will not challenge the indemnification rights or will have sufficient assets or insurance coverage to fulfill its indemnity obligations. in cbs operations, our personnel perform medical procedures on transported patients, which may expose us to significant direct legal exposure to medical malpractice claims. we maintain general liability aviation insurance, aviation product liability coverage, and medical malpractice insurance, and believe our level of coverage is customary in the industry and adequate to protect against claims. however, there can be no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover potential claims or that present levels of coverage will be available in the future at reasonable cost. a limited number of hull and liability insurance underwriters provide coverage for air medical operators. insurance underwriters are required by various federal and state regulations to maintain minimum levels of reserves for known and expected claims. however, there can be no assurance that underwriters have established adequate reserves to fund existing and future claims. the number of air medical accidents, as well as the number of insured losses within other helicopter operations and the commercial airline industry, and the impact of general economic conditions on underwriters may result in increases in premiums above the rate of inflation. in addition, loss of any aircraft as a result of accidents could cause adverse publicity and interruption of services to client hospitals, which could adversely affect our operating results and relationships with such hospitals. approximately 44% of any increases in hull and liability insurance may be passed through to our hbs customers according to contract terms. we do not carry business interruption insurance to protect against extended out of service time which may result if a significant portion of our fleet is grounded due to an unexpected airworthiness directive or other factors. this risk may be mitigated by the diversity of our fleet. · fuel costs – fuel accounted for 3.4% of total operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2011. both the cost and availability of fuel are influenced by many economic and political factors and events occurring in oil-producing countries throughout the world. the price per barrel of oil has fluctuated significantly over the past several years. we cannot predict the future cost and availability of fuel or the impact of disruptions in oil supplies or refinery production from natural disasters. the unavailability of adequate fuel supplies or higher fuel prices could have an adverse effect on our cost of operations and profitability. generally, our hbs customers pay for all fuel consumed in medical flights. however, our ability to pass on increased fuel costs for cbs operations may be limited by economic and competitive conditions and by reimbursement rates established by medicare, medicaid, and insurance providers. since 2009, we have carried financial derivative agreements to protect against increases in the cost of gulf coast jet fuel. during 2011, fuel derivatives covered essentially all of our fuel consumption, excluding the impact of the omniflight fleet, and fuel derivatives in place as of december 31, 2011, cover approximately 94% of our anticipated fuel consumption for 2012.     8 table of contents · employee recruitment and retention - an important aspect of our operations is the ability to hire and retain employees who have advanced aviation, nursing, and other technical skills. in addition, hospital contracts typically contain minimum certification requirements for pilots and mechanics. employees who meet these standards are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. if we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, the ability to maintain and grow the business could be negatively impacted. a limited supply of qualified applicants may also contribute to wage increases which outpace the rate of inflation.   · loss of key personnel – our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our core senior management team, including our chief executive officer. if one or more of these individuals were unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present position, our business may be disrupted and we may not be able to find replacements on a timely basis or with the same level of skill and experience. finding and hiring any such replacements could be costly and may require us to grant significant incentive compensation. · restrictive debt covenants – our senior credit facility contains restrictive financial and operating covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and to engage in various corporate transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, asset sales and the payment of cash dividends. these covenants may restrict future growth through the limitation on acquisitions and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business plan. failure to comply with the covenants defined in the agreement or to maintain the required financial ratios could result in an event of default and accelerate payment of the principal balances due under the senior credit facility. given factors beyond our control, such as interruptions in operations from unusual weather patterns or decreases in flight volume due to overall economic conditions not included in current projections, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with financial covenants in the future, or that, in the event of non-compliance, we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders, or that to obtain such waivers, we will not be required to pay lenders significant cash or equity compensation. · technology and information systems – we receive personal health information (phi) and other confidential information related to the patients that we transport, and such information is stored on our secured servers for billing purposes and patient quality assessment reviews. although we maintain systems to prevent theft and tampering with phi and we believe such systems comply with applicable laws, these systems require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change. security could be compromised, or system disruptions could occur. in the ordinary course of our business, we must also provide certain confidential, proprietary, and personal information to third parties, including hospitals and physicians. while we seek to obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties could be breached. a compromise of our security systems could adversely affect our reputation, disrupt our operations, and result in litigation, penalties, or costly remediation efforts. · governmental regulation – the air medical transportation services and products industry is subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies, including the faa and centers for medicare and medicaid services (cms), which imposes significant compliance costs on us. changes in laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our cost of operations or revenue from flight operations. further, failure to comply with these extensive laws and regulations or the terms or conditions may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations or corrective actions, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting some of or all of our operations.     9 table of contents   · debt and lease obligations – we are obligated under debt facilities and capital lease arrangements providing for up to approximately $640.6 million of indebtedness, of which approximately $551.9 million was outstanding at december 31, 2011, and operating lease obligations which total $46.3 million over the remaining terms of the leases. if we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing indebtedness or lease obligations, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. these rights and remedies include the rights to repossess and foreclose upon the assets that serve as collateral, initiate judicial foreclosure against us, petition a court to appoint a receiver for us, and initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us. if lenders exercise their rights and remedies, our assets may not be sufficient to repay outstanding indebtedness and lease obligations, and there may be no assets remaining after payment of indebtedness and lease obligations to provide a return on common stock.   · foreign ownership – federal law requires that united states air carriers be citizens of the united states. for a corporation to qualify as a united states citizen, the president and at least two-thirds of the directors and other managing officers of the corporation must be united states citizens and at least 75% of the voting interest of the corporation must be owned or controlled by united states citizens. if we are unable to satisfy these requirements, operating authority from the department of transportation may be revoked. as of december 31, 2011, we are not aware of any foreign person who holds more than 5% of our outstanding common stock. because we are unable to control the transfer of our stock, we are unable to assure that we can remain in compliance with these requirements in the future. item 1b. unresolved