item 1a. risk factors   you should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto before making a decision to purchase our securities. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, may also impair our operations and performance.   if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if that happens, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.   risks related to our business and structure   future adverse market and economic conditions could cause harm to our operating results   past recessions have had a significant negative impact on the operating performance and fair value of our portfolio investments. many of our portfolio companies could be adversely impacted again by any future economic downturn or recession and may be unable to repay our debt investments, may be unable to be sold at a price that would allow us to recover our investment, or may be unable to operate during such recession. such portfolio company performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have loans to and investments in middle market borrowers who may default on their loans and we may lose our investment   we have invested in and made loans to privately-held, middle market businesses and plan to continue to do so. there is generally a limited amount of publicly available information about these businesses. therefore, we rely on our principals, associates, analysts, other employees and consultants to investigate and monitor these businesses. the portfolio companies in which we have invested may have significant variations in operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, to finance expansion or to maintain their competitive position, may otherwise have a weak financial position or may be adversely affected by changes in the business cycle. our portfolio companies may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed by senior lenders. numerous factors may affect a portfolio company's ability to repay its loans, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. deterioration in a portfolio company's financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the loan. we have also made unsecured and mezzanine loans and invested in equity securities, which involve a higher degree of risk than senior secured loans. in certain cases, our involvement in the management of our portfolio companies may subject us to additional defenses and claims from borrowers and third-parties. these conditions may make it difficult for us to obtain repayment of our investments.   middle market businesses typically have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than large businesses. they tend to be more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. in addition, these companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive development, manufacturing, marketing, and other capabilities, and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel.   these businesses may also experience substantial variations in operating results. typically, the success of a middle market business also depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons. the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on us. in addition, middle market businesses often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may have borrowed money from other lenders with claims that are senior to our claims.   our senior loans generally are secured by the assets of our borrowers, however certain of our senior loans may have a second priority lien and thus, our security interest may be subordinated to the payment rights and security interest of the first lien senior lender. additionally, our mezzanine loans may or may not be secured by the assets of the borrower; however, if a mezzanine loan is secured, our rights to payment and our security interest are usually subordinated to the payment rights and security interests of the first and second lien senior lenders. therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect our second lien senior loans or mezzanine loans and to recover any of the loan balance through a foreclosure of collateral. 17 table of contents non-accruing loans adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and could result in further losses in the future as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, our non-accruing loans at cost totaled $260 million and $419 million, or 12.9% and 15.3% of our total loans at cost, respectively. non-accruing loans adversely affect net income in various ways. while we incur interest expense to fund non-accruing loans, no interest income is recorded on non-accruing loans, thereby adversely affecting income and returns on assets and equity. there is no assurance that we will not experience further increases in non-accruing loans in the future, or that non-accruing loans will not result in further losses to come. there is uncertainty regarding the value of our portfolio investments   a substantial portion of our portfolio investments are not publicly traded. as required by law, we fair value these investments in accordance with the 1940 act and financial accounting standards board (“fasb”) accounting standards codification (“asc”) topic 820, fair value measurements and disclosures (“asc 820”) based on a determination made in good faith by our board of directors. due to the uncertainty inherent in valuing investments that are not publicly traded, as set forth in our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would exist if a ready market for these investments existed. our determinations of the fair value of our investments have a material impact on our net earnings through the recording of unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments as well as our assessment of income recognition. thus, our nav could be materially affected in the event of any changes in applicable law or accounting pronouncements governing how we currently fair value assets, or if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially different from the values that would exist if a ready market existed for these securities.   our business has significant capital requirements and may be adversely affected by a prolonged inability to access the capital markets or to sell assets   our business requires a substantial amount of capital to operate. we historically have financed our operations, including the funding of new investments, through cash generated by our operating activities, the repayment of debt investments, the sale of equity investments, the issuance of debt by special purpose affiliates to which we have contributed loan assets, the sale of our stock and through secured and unsecured borrowings. our ability to continue to rely on such sources or other sources of capital is affected by restrictions in both the 1940 act and in certain of our debt agreements relating to the incurrence of additional indebtedness as well as changes in the capital markets from the recent economic recession. it is also affected by legal, structural and other factors. there can be no assurance that we will be able to earn or access the funds necessary for our liquidity requirements.   our ability to recognize the benefits of our deferred tax asset is dependent on future taxable income and could be substantially limited if we experience an “ownership change” within the meaning of section 382 of the code we recognize the expected future tax benefit from a deferred tax asset when the tax benefit is considered more likely than not to be realized. otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied against the deferred tax asset. assessing the recoverability of a deferred tax asset requires management to make significant estimates related to expectations of future taxable income. estimates of future taxable income are based on forecasted cash flows from investments and operations, the character of expected income or loss as either capital or ordinary and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. to the extent that future cash flows and the amount or character of taxable income differ significantly from estimates, our ability to realize the deferred tax asset could be impacted. see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. additionally, under sections 382 and 383 of the code, following an “ownership change,” certain limitations apply to the use by a “loss corporation” of certain tax attributes including net operating loss carryforwards, capital loss carryforwards, unrealized built-in losses and tax credits arising before the “ownership change.” such tax attributes represent substantially all of our deferred tax assets. in general, an “ownership change” would occur if there is a cumulative change in the ownership of our common stock of more than 50 percentage points by one or more “5% shareholders” during a three-year period. in the event of an “ownership change,” the tax attributes that may be used to offset our future taxable income in each year after the “ownership change” will be subject to an annual limitation. in general, the annual limitation is equal to the product of the fair market value of our common stock on the date of the “ownership change” and the “long term tax exempt rate” (which is published monthly by the internal revenue service), subject to specified adjustments. this limitation could accelerate our cash tax payments and could result in a significant portion of our deferred tax asset expiring before we could fully use them. on april 27, 2012, we amended our certificate of incorporation to impose certain restrictions on the transfer of our common stock. these restrictions reduce, but do not eliminate, the risk of an “ownership change.” changes in laws or regulations governing our operations or our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may adversely affect our business   we and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state, federal and foreign level, including with respect to securities laws, tax and accounting standards. these laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be 18 table of contents changed from time to time. accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations or the failure to comply with these laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business. certain of these laws and regulations pertain specifically to bdcs.   we may materially change our corporate structure and the nature of our business we are very much affected by the legal, regulatory, tax and accounting regimes under which we operate. we are evaluating whether those regimes and our existing corporate structure are the optimum means for the operation and capitalization of our business. as a result of these evaluations, we may decide to proceed with structural and organizational changes (certain of which may require the approval of our shareholders), which could result in spinning out to our shareholders an externally managed debt focused bdc, changes in our corporate form, termination of our election to be regulated as a bdc, our conversion from an investment company to an operating company or other fundamental changes. if we were no longer an investment company, our accounting practices would change and, for example, lead to the consolidation of certain majority owned companies with which we do not now consolidate as an investment company. additionally, if we were no longer an investment company, our shareholders would not benefit from the investor protections provided by the 1940 act. we may incur certain costs in completing these evaluations and may receive no benefit from these expenditures, particularly if we do not proceed with any changes. no decisions have been made with respect to any such changes and there is no timetable for making any decisions, including any decision not to proceed with any such changes. a change in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability   because we have funded a portion of our investments with borrowings, our earnings are affected by the spread between the interest rate on our investments and the interest rate at which we borrowed funds. we have attempted to match-fund our liabilities and assets by financing floating rate assets with floating rate liabilities and fixed rate assets with fixed rate liabilities or equity. we have entered into interest rate basis swap agreements to match the interest rate basis of a portion of our assets and liabilities, thereby locking in the spread between our asset yield and the cost of our borrowings, and to fulfill our obligations under the terms of our asset securitizations. however, our derivatives are considered economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting under asc topic 815, derivatives and hedging (“asc 815”). therefore, payments under the hedges are recorded in net realized (loss) gain in our consolidated statements of operations in this annual report on form 10-k and not in interest income or expense.   under our interest rate swap agreements, we generally pay a fixed rate and receive a floating interest rate based on libor. we may enter into interest rate swaption agreements where, if exercised, we would receive a fixed rate and pay a floating rate based on libor. we may also enter into interest rate cap agreements that would entitle us to receive an amount, if any, by which our interest payments on our variable rate debt exceed specified interest rates.   an increase or decrease in interest rates could reduce the spread between the rate at which we invest and the rate at which we borrow, and thus, adversely affect our profitability, if we have not appropriately match-funded our liabilities and assets or hedged against such event. alternatively, our interest rate hedging activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio.   also, the fair value of certain of our debt investments is based in part on the current market yields or interest rates of similar securities. a change in interest rates could have a significant impact on our determination of the fair value of these debt investments. in addition, a change in interest rates could also have an impact on the fair value of our interest rate swap agreements that could result in the recording of unrealized appreciation or depreciation in future periods. for example, a decline, or a flattening, of the forward interest rate yield curve will typically result in the recording of unrealized depreciation of our interest rate swap agreements.   therefore, adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for additional information on interest rate swap agreements.   a change in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our profitability   we have or may make investments in debt instruments that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, we have or may make investments in the equity of portfolio companies whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar. our domestic portfolio companies may also transact a significant amount of business in foreign countries and therefore their profitability may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the functional currency of one of our largest portfolio companies, european capital, is the euro. european capital also has investments in other european currencies, including the british pound. as a result, an adverse change in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   19 table of contents we may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results   we have and could experience material fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors including, among others, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, placing and removing investments on non-accrual status, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, the ability to sell investments at attractive terms, the ability to fund and close suitable investments, the timing of the recognition of fee income from closing investment transactions and general economic conditions. as a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.   we are dependent upon our key management personnel for our future success   we are dependent on the diligence and skill of our senior management and other members of management for raising capital and the selection, structuring, monitoring, restructuring/amendment, sale and exiting of our investments. our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management and other members of management. our failure to raise additional capital that would enhance the growth of our business, or our failure to provide appropriate opportunities for or compensate competitively senior management and other members of management may make it difficult to retain such individuals. the departure of certain executive officers or key employees could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy. we do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our officers or employees.   we operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities   we compete with strategic buyers and hundreds of private equity and mezzanine debt funds and other financing sources, including traditional financial services companies such as finance companies, commercial banks, investment banks and other equity and non-equity based investment funds. some of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial resources than us. competitors may have lower cost of funds and many have access to funding sources that are not available to us. in addition, certain of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to offer better pricing and terms to prospective portfolio companies, consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships and build their market shares. there is no assurance that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that satisfy our investment objectives or that we will be able to meet our investment goals. we could face losses and potential liability if intrusions, viruses or similar disruptions to our technology jeopardize our confidential information or that of users of our technology   although we have implemented, and will continue to implement, security measures, our technology platform is and will continue to be vulnerable to intrusion, computer viruses or similar disruptive problems caused by transmission from unauthorized users. in addition, any misappropriation of proprietary information could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation.   risks related to liquidity and capital resources   our secured borrowing arrangements impose significant limitations on us   the loans under our four-year $600 million secured term loan facility (“term loan facility”) may only be refinanced at a lower rate, in full or in part, prior to august 22, 2013 for an amount equal to 101% of the principal prepaid plus accrued interest. in addition, our secured term loans have scheduled amortization and mandatory prepayments in the event of a borrowing base deficiency or the issuance of new debt, and in certain cases, if there are realized proceeds from a portfolio company exit or excess cash flow. any loans that may be outstanding under our four-year $250 million secured revolving credit facility (“revolving credit facility”) are also subject to scheduled amortization after the three year revolving period and mandatory prepayments in the event of a borrowing base deficiency. the term loan facility and the revolving credit facility have covenants that in certain circumstances limit our ability to incur additional debt and liens, pay cash dividends, repurchase common stock, dispose of assets and make new investments and acquisitions. we are also prohibited from seeking to resume our status as a ric and changing our regulatory status as a bdc. both facilities require us to maintain a 100% borrowing base coverage. the revolving credit facility also includes other financial covenants that require us to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio not to exceed 0.75:1.00 and minimum adjusted ebitda for american capital asset management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with each of these covenants and a failure to do so could result in an event of default under the facilities. other events of default under the term loan facility and the revolving credit facility include without limitation, a payment default, an unremedied borrowing base deficiency, a cross default to our other facility, the cross acceleration of any debt in excess of an aggregate $50 million, the liquidation or 20 table of contents bankruptcy of us or american capital asset management, the failure by us to conduct our asset management business through american capital asset management, one or more judgments in excess of an aggregate $50 million and a change of control. the occurrence of an event of default under the facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, debt obligations outstanding under our asset securitizations currently require that all principal and interest received on the loans securing such debt be used to repay such debt. accordingly, we do not currently have access to the liquidity or current cash flows from the loans securing the debt in our asset securitizations for funding new investments or general corporate needs.   the 1940 act limits our ability to issue senior securities in certain circumstances   as a bdc, the 1940 act generally limits our ability to issue senior securities if our asset coverage ratio does not exceed 200% immediately after each issuance of senior securities or is improved immediately upon the issuance. asset coverage ratio is defined in the 1940 act as the ratio that the value of the total assets, less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, bears to the aggregate amount of senior securities representing indebtedness. we have operated at times in the past with our asset coverage ratio below 200% and there are no assurances that we will always operate above this ratio. the resulting restrictions on issuing senior securities could have a material adverse impact on our business operations. the 1940 act limits our ability to issue equity below our nav per share   as a bdc, the 1940 act generally limits our ability to issue and sell our common stock at a price below our nav per share, exclusive of any distributing commission or discount, without shareholder approval. since 2008, shares of our common stock have traded below our nav per share. while our common stock continues to trade at a price below our nav per share, there are no assurances that we can issue or sell shares of our common stock if needed to fund our business. in addition, even in certain instances where we could issue or sell shares of our common stock at a price below our nav per share, such issuance could result in dilution in our nav per share, which could result in a decline of our stock price.   our interest rate swap agreements contain covenants that place limitations on us   we enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk and also to fulfill our obligations under the terms of our asset securitizations. our interest rate swap agreements contain various events of default, including in certain cases an event of default that allows the counterparty to terminate transactions outstanding under the agreement following the occurrence of a cross default on certain of our other indebtedness. certain of our interest rate swap agreements also contain an event of default that allows a counterparty to terminate transactions outstanding under the agreement if certain of our other indebtedness, as applicable, is accelerated. an event of default under certain of our interest rate swap agreements could also trigger a default under our secured debt facilities if such agreements are terminated early and would result in an aggregate amount due at such time in excess of $50 million. some of our interest rate swap agreements are secured by first and second priority liens (subject to certain permitted liens) on substantially all of our non-securitized assets pari passu with the term loan facility and, in certain cases, also the revolving credit facility. the remaining interest rate swap agreements are secured by a first priority lien (subject to certain permitted liens) on our securitized assets pari passu with our securitized debt. thus, if we violate the covenants in any of the interest rate swap agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   the lack of liquidity in our privately-held securities may adversely affect our business   most of our investments consist of securities acquired directly from their issuers in private transactions. some of these securities are subject to restrictions on resale or otherwise are less liquid than public securities. the illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to obtain cash equal to the value at which we record our investments upon exiting the investment.   risks related to our investing and financing strategy   we have and may incur additional debt that could increase your investment risks   we and certain of our consolidated affiliates have borrowed money or issued debt securities, which give our lenders and the holder of our debt securities fixed dollar claims on our assets or the assets of such consolidated affiliates that are senior to the claims of our shareholders and, thus, our lenders have preference over our shareholders with respect to these assets. in particular, the assets that our consolidated affiliates have pledged to lenders under our asset securitizations were sold or contributed to separate affiliated statutory trusts prior to such pledge. while we own a beneficial interest in these trusts, these assets are the property of the respective trusts, available to satisfy the debts of the trusts, and would only become available for distribution to our shareholders to the extent specifically permitted under the agreements governing those term debt notes. additionally, we have granted a security interest in substantially all of our other assets to the lenders of our term loan facility and revolving credit facility which impose certain limitations on us.   21 table of contents the following table is designed to illustrate the effect on returns to a holder of our common stock of the leverage created by our use of borrowing, at the weighted average interest rate of 6.1% for the year ended december 31, 2012, and assuming hypothetical annual returns on our portfolio of minus 15% to plus 15%. as illustrated below, leverage generally increases the return to shareholders when the portfolio return is positive and decreases the return when the portfolio return is negative. actual returns may be greater or less than those appearing in the table. assumed return on portfolio (net of expenses)(1) (15%) (10%) (5%) —% 5% 10% 15% corresponding return to stockholders(2) (19%) (13%) (7%) (1%) 5% 11% 16%   (1) the assumed portfolio return is required by regulation of the sec and is not a prediction of, and does not represent, our projected or actual performance. (2) in order to compute the “corresponding return to shareholders,” the “assumed return on portfolio” is multiplied by the total value of our assets at the beginning of the period to obtain an assumed return to us. from this amount, all interest expense accrued during the period is subtracted to determine the return available to shareholders. the return available to shareholders is then divided by the total value of our net assets as of the beginning of the period to determine the “corresponding return to shareholders.”   although outstanding debt increases the potential for gain, it also increases the risk of loss of income or capital. this is the case, whether we are impacted by an increase or decrease in income or due to increases or decreases in asset values. our ability to pay dividends is similarly impacted by outstanding debt.   we currently have a non-investment grade corporate credit rating and we could experience downgrades   as of december 31, 2012, our corporate credit rating was b2, b+ and b+ by moody's investor services, standard & poor's ratings services and fitch ratings, respectively. any rating below bbb or baa2 is considered non-investment grade. a non-investment grade rating in general reduces a company's access to debt capital. if these credit ratings were to be downgraded, our ability to refinance or raise additional debt could be negatively impacted. any of these occurrences could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our debt securities   our credit ratings are an assessment by major debt rating agencies of our ability to pay our obligations. consequently, actual or expected changes in our credit ratings will likely affect the market value of our traded debt securities. our credit ratings, however, may not fully or accurately reflect all of the credit and market risks associated with our outstanding debt securities.   we may not realize gains from our equity investments   we invest in equity assets with the goal to realize income and gains from the performance and disposition of these assets. some or all of these equity assets may not produce income or gains; accordingly, we may not be able to realize income or gains from our equity assets.   our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged with debt   the debt levels of our portfolio companies may have important adverse consequences to such companies and to us as an investor. portfolio companies that are indebted may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants. the leverage may impair these companies' ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. as a result, their flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities may be limited. a company's income and net worth will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if the company did not capitalize itself in part with debt. investments in non-investment grade structured products may be illiquid, may have a higher risk of default, and may not produce current returns   our investments in structured products securities are generally non-investment grade. non-investment grade structured products bonds and preferred shares tend to be illiquid, have a higher risk of default and may be more difficult to value than investment grade bonds. recessions or poor economic or pricing conditions in the markets associated with structured products may cause higher defaults or losses than expected on these bonds and preferred shares. non-investment grade securities are considered speculative, and their capacity to pay principal and interest in accordance with the terms of their issue is not certain.   22 table of contents our assets include investments in structured products that are subordinate in right of payment to more senior securities   our assets include subordinated clo, cdo and cmbs securities, which are subordinated classes of securities in a structure of securities secured by a pool of loans. accordingly, such securities are the first or among the first to bear the loss upon a restructuring or liquidation of the underlying collateral and the last to receive payment of interest and principal. thus, there is generally only a nominal amount of equity or other debt securities junior to our positions, if any, issued in such structures. additionally, the estimated fair values of our subordinated interests tend to be much more sensitive to changes in economic conditions than more senior securities.   the trading market or market value of our debt securities may fluctuate   many factors may materially adversely affect the trading market for, and market value of, our debt securities including, but not limited to, the following:   • future defaults under the securities; • our creditworthiness; • the time remaining to the maturity of these debt securities; •  • the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms identical to these debt securities; • the supply of debt securities trading in the secondary market, if any; • the redemption or repayment features, if any, of these debt securities; • the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates generally; and • market rates of interest that are higher or lower than rates borne by the debt securities.   there may also be a limited number of buyers when an investor decides to sell its debt securities. this too may materially adversely affect the market value of the debt securities or the trading market for the debt securities.   we may issue preferred stock in the future to help finance our business, which would magnify the potential for gain or loss and the risks of investing in us in the same way as our borrowings. preferred stock, which is another form of leverage, has the same risks to our common stockholders as borrowings because the dividends on any preferred stock we issue must be cumulative. payment of such dividends and repayment of the liquidation preference of such preferred stock must take preference over any dividends or other payments to our common stockholders, and preferred stockholders are not subject to any of our expenses or losses and are not entitled to participate in any income or appreciation in excess of their stated preference. we have restrictions on the type of assets we can invest in as a bdc   as a bdc, we may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets”, as defined in the 1940 act, unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. thus, we may be precluded from investing in potentially attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 act. in addition, there is a risk that this restriction could prevent us from making additional investments in our existing non-qualifying investments, which could cause our position to be diluted or limit the access to capital of our non-qualifying investments.  there are conflicts of interest with other funds that we manage   through our wholly-owned portfolio company, american capital asset management, we manage various funds that may compete with us for investments. although we have policies in place to seek to mitigate the effects of conflicts of interest, these policies will not eliminate the conflicts of interest that our officers and employees and the officers and employees of our fund managers and affiliates will face in making investment decisions on behalf of american capital or any other american capital-sponsored investment vehicles. further, we do not have any agreement or understanding with our funds that would give us any priority over them in opportunities to invest in overlapping investments. accordingly, we may compete for access to investments with other funds that we manage. 23 table of contents risks related to our common stock   we may not pay any cash dividends   we are subject to federal and applicable state corporate income taxes on our taxable ordinary income and capital gains beginning with our tax year ended september 30, 2011, and are not subject to the annual distribution requirements under subchapter m of the code. we have not paid a cash dividend during the last three fiscal years ended december 31, 2012 and there can be no assurance that we will pay any cash dividends in the future as we may retain our earnings to facilitate the growth of our business, to invest, to provide liquidity, to repurchase our shares or for other corporate purposes.   future equity issuances may be on terms adverse to shareholder interests   we may issue equity capital at prices below our nav per share with shareholder approval. as of the date of this filing, we do not have such authorization; however, we may seek such approval in the future or we may elect to conduct a rights offering, which would not require shareholder approval under the 1940 act. if we issue any shares of common stock below our nav per share, the interests of our existing shareholders may be diluted. any such dilution could include a reduction in our nav per share as a result of the issuance of shares at a price below the nav per share and a decrease in a shareholder's interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest. as of december 31, 2012, the closing price of our common stock was below our nav per share. the following table is designed to illustrate the dilutive effect on nav per share if we issue shares of common stock below our nav per share. the table below reflects nav per share diluted for the hypothetical issuance of 50,000,000 shares of common stock (about 16% of outstanding shares as of december 31, 2012), at hypothetical sales prices of 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25% and 50% below the december 31, 2012 nav of $17.84 per share.   assumed sales price per share below nav per share(1) (50%) (25%) (20%) (15%) (10%) (5%) diluted nav per share $16.58 $17.20 $17.33 $17.46 $17.58 $17.71 % dilution (7.1%) (3.5%) (2.8%) (2.1%) (1.4%) (0.7%)   (1) the assumed sales price per share is assumed to be net of any applicable underwriting commissions or discounts.   the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly   the market price and marketability of shares of our securities may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. these factors include the following:   • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies; • defaulting on our debt covenants; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of bdcs, financial service companies, asset managers or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of particular companies; • changes in laws, regulatory policies, tax guidelines or financial accounting standards, particularly with respect to bdcs; • changes in our earnings or variations in operating results; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts and the market in general; • decreases in our nav per share; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source.   fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock and, in the event that we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital. 24 table of contents our common stock may be difficult to resell   investors may not be able to resell shares of common stock at or above their purchase prices due to a number of factors, including:   • actual or anticipated fluctuation in our operating results; • volatility in our common stock price; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; and • departures of key personnel.   provisions of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts   our charter and bylaws and the delaware general corporation law contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging and delaying or making more difficult a change in control. for example, we are subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prohibits business combinations with interested shareholders except in certain cases. the existence of these provisions may negatively impact the price of our common stock and may discourage third-party bids. these provisions may also reduce any premiums paid to our shareholders for shares of our common stock that they own.   item 1b.     unresolved