item 1a. risk factors factors that may affect future results in this report, we have made various statements regarding current expectations or forecasts of future events. these statements are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of that term in section 27a of the securities act of 1933 (the “securities act”) and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the “exchange act”). forward-looking statements are also made from time-to-time in press releases and in oral statements made by our officers. forward-looking statements are identified by the words “estimate,” “project,” “anticipate,” “will continue,” “will likely result,” “expect,” “intend,” “believe,” “plan,” “predict” and similar expressions. such forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and estimates, which although believed to be reasonable, may turn out to be incorrect. therefore, undue reliance should not be placed upon these statements and estimates. these statements or estimates may not be realized and actual results may differ from those contemplated in these “forward-looking statements.” some of the factors that may cause these statements and estimates to differ materially include, among others, market demand in the commercial vehicle industry, general economic, business and financing conditions, labor relations, government action, competitor pricing activity, expense volatility, and each of the risks highlighted below. we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. you are advised to consult further disclosures we may make on related subjects in our filings with the sec. our expectations, beliefs, or projections may not be achieved or accomplished. in addition to other factors discussed in the report, some of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include the following risk factors. risks related to our business and industry we rely on, and make significant operational decisions based, in part, upon industry data and forecasts that may prove to be inaccurate. we continue to operate in a challenging economic environment and our ability to maintain liquidity may be affected by economic or other conditions that are beyond our control and which are difficult to predict. the 2013 oem production forecasts by act publications for the significant commercial vehicle markets that we serve, as of march 11, 2013, are as follows: north american class 8     263,123   north american classes 5-7     198,081   u.s. trailers     252,000   we are dependent on sales to a small number of our major customers and on our status as standard supplier on certain truck platforms of each of our major customers. sales, including aftermarket sales, to paccar, navistar, dtna, and volvo/mack constituted approximately 18.7 percent, 13.3 percent, 11.9 percent, and 7.9 percent, respectively, of our 2012 net sales. no other customer accounted for more than 5 percent of our net sales for this period. the loss of any significant portion of sales to any of our major customers would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we are a standard supplier of various components at a majority of our major customers, which results in recurring revenue as our standard components are installed on most trucks ordered from that platform, unless the end user specifically requests a different product, generally at an additional charge. the selection of one of our products as a standard component may also create a steady demand for that product in the aftermarket. we may not maintain our current standard supplier positions in the future, and may not become the standard supplier for additional truck platforms. the loss of a significant standard supplier position or a significant number of standard supplier positions with a major customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  for example, during 2012 gunite lost standard position at two oems for certain products, which led to impairment charges as described in note 4 “goodwill and other intangible assets” and note 5 “property, plant and equipment”. we are continuing to engage in efforts intended to improve and expand our relations with each of the customers named above. we have supported our position with these customers through direct and active contact with end users, trucking fleets, and dealers, and have located certain of our marketing personnel in offices near these customers and most of our other major customers. we may not be able to successfully maintain or improve our customer relationships so that these customers will continue to do business with us as they have in the past or be able to supply these customers or any of our other customers at current levels. the loss of a significant portion of our sales to any of these named customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, the delay or cancellation of  material orders from, or problems at, any of our other major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.   11 table of contents   increased cost or reduced supply of raw materials and purchased components may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. our business is subject to the risk of price increases and fluctuations and periodic delays in the delivery of raw materials and purchased components that are beyond our control. our operations require substantial amounts of raw steel, aluminum, steel scrap, pig iron, electricity, coke, natural gas, sheet and formed steel, bearings, purchased components, fasteners, silicon sand, binders, sand additives, coated sand and tube steel. fluctuations in the delivery of these materials may be driven by the supply/demand relationship for material, factors particular to that material or governmental regulation for raw materials such as electricity and natural gas.  in addition, if any of our suppliers seek bankruptcy relief or otherwise cannot continue their business as anticipated or we cannot renew our supply contracts on favorable terms, the availability or price of raw materials could be adversely affected.  fluctuations in prices and/or availability of the raw materials or purchased components used by us, which at times may be more pronounced during periods of higher truck builds, may affect our profitability and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. in addition, as described above, a shortening or elimination of our trade credit by our suppliers may affect our liquidity and cash flow and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition we use substantial amounts of raw steel and aluminum in our production processes. although raw steel is generally available from a number of sources, we have obtained favorable sourcing by negotiating and entering into high-volume contracts with terms ranging from one to two years. we obtain raw steel and aluminum from various suppliers. we may not be successful in renewing our supply contracts on favorable terms or at all. a substantial interruption in the supply of raw steel or aluminum or inability to obtain a supply of raw steel or aluminum on commercially desirable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we are not always able, and may not be able in the future, to pass on increases in the price of raw steel or aluminum to our customers on a timely basis or at all. in particular, when raw material prices increase rapidly or to significantly higher than normal levels, we may not be able to pass price increases through to our customers on a timely basis, if at all, which could adversely affect our operating margins and cash flow. any fluctuations in the price or availability of raw steel or aluminum may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. steel scrap and pig iron are also major raw materials used in our business to produce our wheel-end and industrial components. steel scrap is derived from, among other sources, junked automobiles, industrial scrap, railroad cars, agricultural and heavy machinery, and demolition steel scrap from obsolete structures, containers and machines. pig iron is a low-grade cast iron that is a product of smelting iron ore with coke and limestone in a blast furnace. the availability and price of steel scrap and pig iron are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including north american and international demand for steel scrap and pig iron, freight costs, speculation and foreign exchange rates. steel scrap and pig iron availability and price may also be subject to governmental regulation. we are not always able, and may not be able in the future, to pass on increases in the price of steel scrap and pig iron to our customers. in particular, when raw material prices increase rapidly or to significantly higher than normal levels, we may not be able to pass price increases through to our customers on a timely basis, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins and cash flow. any fluctuations in the price or availability of steel scrap or pig iron may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. see “item 1—business—raw materials and suppliers”. our business is affected by the seasonality and regulatory nature of the industries and markets that we serve. our operations are typically seasonal as a result of regular customer maintenance and model changeover shutdowns, which typically occur in the third and fourth quarter of each calendar year. this seasonality may result in decreased net sales and profitability during the third and fourth fiscal quarters and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. in addition, federal and state regulations (including engine emissions regulations, tariffs, import regulations and other taxes) may have a material adverse effect on our business and are beyond our control.   12 table of contents   cost reduction and quality improvement initiatives by oems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we are primarily a components supplier to the heavy- and medium-duty truck industries, which are characterized by a small number of oems that are able to exert considerable pressure on components suppliers to reduce costs, improve quality and provide additional design and engineering capabilities. given the fragmented nature of the industry, oems continue to demand and receive price reductions and measurable increases in quality through their use of competitive selection processes, rating programs, and various other arrangements. we may be unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset such price reductions. oems may also seek to save costs by relocating production to countries with lower cost structures, which could in turn lead them to purchase components from local suppliers with lower production costs. additionally, oems have generally required component suppliers to provide more design engineering input at earlier stages of the product development process, the costs of which have, in some cases, been absorbed by the suppliers. future price reductions, increased quality standards and additional engineering capabilities required by oems may reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we operate in highly competitive markets and we may not be able to compete successfully. the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. we compete with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. our products primarily compete on the basis of price, manufacturing and distribution capability, product design, product quality, product delivery and product service. some of our competitors are companies, or divisions, units or subsidiaries of companies that are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. for these reasons, our products may not be able to compete successfully with the products of our competitors. in addition, our competitors may foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, develop products that are superior to our products, have the ability to produce similar products at a lower cost than we can, or adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving regulatory, industry, or customer requirements. as a result, our products may not be able to compete successfully with their products. in addition, oems may expand their internal production of components, shift sourcing to other suppliers, or take other actions that could reduce the market for our products and have a negative impact on our business. we may encounter increased competition in the future from existing competitors or new competitors. we expect these competitive pressures in our markets to remain strong. see “item 1—business—competition”. in addition, competition from foreign truck components suppliers, especially in the aftermarket, may lead to an increase in truck components imports into north america, adversely affecting our market share and negatively affecting our ability to compete. foreign truck components suppliers, including those in china, may in the future increase their current share of the markets for truck components in which we compete. some of these foreign suppliers may be owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, and their decisions with respect to production, sales and exports may be influenced more by political and economic policy considerations than by prevailing market conditions. in addition, foreign truck components suppliers may be subject to less restrictive regulatory and environmental regimes that could provide them with a cost advantage relative to north american suppliers. therefore, there is a risk that some foreign suppliers, including those in china, may increase their sales of truck components in north american markets despite decreasing profit margins or losses. on march 30, 2011, we, along with one other united states domestic commercial vehicle steel wheel supplier, filed antidumping and countervailing duty petitions with the united states international trade commission and the united states department of commerce alleging that manufacturers of certain steel wheels in china are dumping their products in the united states and that these manufacturers have been subsidized by their government in violation of united states trade laws.  in may 2011, the international trade commission issued a preliminary determination that there was a reasonable indication that the u.s. steel wheel industry is materially injured or threatened with material injury by reason of imports from china of certain steel wheels, and began the final phase of its investigation.  in august 2011, the u.s. department of commerce issued a preliminary determination of countervailing duties on steel wheels imported from china ranging from 26.2 percent to 46.6 percent ad valorem, and in october 2011, the u.s. department of commerce issued a preliminary determination of antidumping duty margins ranging from 110.6 percent to 243.9 percent ad valorem.  on march 19, 2012, the department of commerce made final determinations of dumping and subsidy margins which cumulatively were approximately 70 percent to 228 percent ad valorem.  however, on april 17, 2012, the international trade commission determined that the domestic industry has not been injured and was not presently threatened with injury from subject imports, and consequently withdrew all import duties on the subject imports.  if future trade cases do not provide relief from unfair trade practices, u.s. protective trade laws are weakened or international demand for trucks and/or truck components decreases, an increase of truck component imports into the united states may occur, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition.   13 table of contents   economic and other conditions may adversely impact the valuation of our assets resulting in impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.   we review goodwill and our indefinite lived intangible assets (trade names) for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators exist. a significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. such indicators may include, among others: a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a sustained, significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant adverse change in industry or economic trends, unanticipated competition, slower growth rates, and significant changes in the manner of the use of our assets or the strategy for our overall business. any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of these assets and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. for example, due to recent business developments, including the loss of standard position for some of its products at two oem customers, our gunite reporting unit recorded goodwill, intangibles, and property, plant and equipment impairments of $62.8 million, $36.8 million and $34.1 million, respectively based upon our 2012 annual impairment testing.  if we determine in the future that there are other potential impairments in any of our reporting units, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.   we are subject to risks associated with our international operations.   we sell products in international locations and operate plants in canada and mexico. in addition, it is part our strategy to continue to expand internationally. our current and future international sales and operations are subject to risks and uncertainties, including:     ● possible government legislation;     ● difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex and changing laws, treaties and regulations;     ● unexpected changes in regulatory environments;     ● limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies;     ● economic and political conditions, war and civil disturbance;     ● tax rate changes;     ● tax inefficiencies and currency exchange controls that may adversely impact our ability to repatriate cash from non-united states subsidiaries;     ● the imposition of tariffs or other import or export restrictions;     ● costs and availability of shipping and transportation; and     ● nationalization of properties by foreign governments.   we may have difficulty anticipating and effectively managing these and other risks that our international operations may face, which may adversely impact our business outside the united states and our business, financial condition and results of operations.  in addition, international expansion will also require significant attention from our management and could require us to add additional management and other resources in these markets.   in addition, we operate in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption, and we could be adversely affected by violations of the foreign corrupt practices act (“fcpa”) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the fcpa and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. if we were found to be liable for fcpa violations, we could be liable for criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   14 table of contents   we face exposure to foreign business and operational risks including foreign exchange rate fluctuations and if we were to experience a substantial fluctuation, our profitability may change. in the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates, particularly with respect to the canadian dollar and mexican peso. from time to time, we use forward foreign exchange contracts, and other derivative instruments, to help offset the impact of the variability in exchange rates on our operations, cash flows, assets and liabilities. at december 31, 2012, the notional amount of open foreign exchange forward contracts was $1.3 million. factors that could further impact the risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates include the accuracy of our sales estimates, volatility of currency markets and the cost and availability of derivative instruments. see “item 7a— quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk —foreign currency risk”. in addition, changes in the laws or governmental policies in the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we may not be able to continue to meet our customers’ demands for our products and services. in order to remain competitive, we must continue to meet our customers’ demand for our products and services. however, we may not be successful in doing so. if our customers’ demand for our products and/or services exceeds our ability to meet that demand, we may be unable to continue to provide our customers with the products and/or services they require to meet their business needs. factors that could result in our inability to meet customer demands include an unforeseen spike in demand for our products and/or services, a failure by one or more of our suppliers to supply us with the raw materials and other resources that we need to operate our business effectively or poor management of our company or one or more divisions or units of our company, among other factors. our ability to provide our customers with products and services in a reliable and timely manner, in the quantity and quality desired and with a high level of customer service, may be severely diminished as a result. if this happens, we may lose some or all of our customers to one or more of our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. in addition, it is important that we continue to meet our customers’ demands in the truck components industry for product innovation, improvement and enhancement, including the continued development of new-generation products, design improvements and innovations that improve the quality and efficiency of our products. developing product innovations for the truck components industry has been and will continue to be a significant part of our strategy. however, such development will require us to continue to invest in research and development and sales and marketing. our recent financial condition has constrained our ability to make such investments. in the future, we may not have sufficient resources to make such necessary investments, or we may be unable to make the technological advances necessary to carry out product innovations sufficient to meet our customers’ demands. we are also subject to the risks generally associated with product development, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly. we may, as a result of these factors, be unable to meaningfully focus on product innovation as a strategy and may therefore be unable to meet our customers’ demand for product innovation. equipment failures, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss at any of our facilities could lead to production or service curtailments or shutdowns. we manufacture our products at 14 facilities and provide logistical services at our just-in-time sequencing facilities in the united states. an interruption in production or service capabilities at any of these facilities as a result of equipment failure or other reasons could result in our inability to produce our products, which would reduce our net sales and earnings for the affected period. in the event of a stoppage in production at any of our facilities, even if only temporary, or if we experience delays as a result of events that are beyond our control, delivery times to our customers could be severely affected. any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns or cancellations and cause us to lose future sales. our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. we may experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failure, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.   we are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems, and any failure to adequately protect our critical information technology systems could materially affect our operations.   we rely on information technology systems across our operations, including for management, supply chain and financial information and various other processes and transactions. in addition, we are in the process of a corporate-wide migration to a new enterprise resource planning, or erp, software system.  our ability to effectively manage our business depends on the security, reliability and capacity of these systems. information technology system failures, network disruptions or breaches of security could disrupt our operations, causing delays or cancellation of customer orders or impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, processing of transactions or reporting of financial results. an attack or other problem with our systems could also result in the disclosure of proprietary information about our business or confidential information concerning our customers or employees, which could result in significant damage to our business and our reputation.   15 table of contents in addition, we could be required to expend significant additional amounts to respond to information technology issues or to protect against threatened or actual security breaches. we may not be able to implement measures that will protect against all of the significant risks to our information technology systems.   we may incur potential product liability, warranty and product recall costs. we are subject to the risk of exposure to product liability, warranty and product recall claims in the event any of our products results in property damage, personal injury or death, or does not conform to specifications. we may not be able to continue to maintain suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts on acceptable terms that will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. in addition, if any of our products proves to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall involving such products. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage, if any, or a requirement to participate in any product recall, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. work stoppages or other labor issues at our facilities or at our customers’ facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. as of december 31, 2012, unions represented approximately 54 percent of our workforce. as a result, we are subject to the risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters. any prolonged strike or other work stoppage at any one of our principal unionized facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we have collective bargaining agreements with different unions at various facilities. these collective bargaining agreements expire at various times over the next few years, with the exception of our union contract at our monterrey, mexico facility, which expires on an annual basis. the 2013 negotiations in monterrey were successfully completed prior to the expiration of our union contract. in 2012, we extended the labor contract at our london, ontario facility through march 2018.  in 2013, we have collective bargaining agreements expiring at our brillion, wisconsin facility.  we do not anticipate that our 2013 negotiations will have a material adverse effect on our operating performance or cost. in addition, if any of our customers experience a material work stoppage, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. this could cause us to shut down production facilities relating to these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we are subject to a number of environmental laws and regulations that may require us to make substantial expenditures or cause us to incur substantial liabilities. our operations, facilities, and properties are subject to extensive and evolving laws and regulations pertaining to air emissions, wastewater and stormwater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes, the investigation and remediation of contamination, and otherwise relating to health, safety, and the protection of the environment and natural resources. the violation of such laws can result in significant fines, penalties, liabilities or restrictions on operations. from time to time, we are involved in administrative or legal proceedings relating to environmental, health and safety matters, and have in the past incurred and will continue to incur capital costs and other expenditures relating to such matters. for example, we are involved in a proceeding regarding alleged violations of stormwater regulations at our brillion facility, which could subject us to fines, penalties or other liabilities. in connection with that matter, we are negotiating with state authorities regarding certain capital improvements related to the underlying allegations. based on current information, we do not expect that this matter will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions; however, we cannot assure you that these or any other future environmental compliance matters will not have such an effect. in addition to environmental laws that regulate our ongoing operations, we are also subject to environmental remediation liability. under the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act (cercla) and analogous state laws, we may be liable as a result of the release or threatened release of hazardous materials into the environment regardless of when the release occurred. we are currently involved in several matters relating to the investigation and/or remediation of locations where we have arranged for the disposal of foundry wastes. such matters include situations in which we have been named or are believed to be potentially responsible parties in connection with the contamination of these sites. additionally, environmental remediation may be required to address soil and groundwater contamination identified at certain of our facilities.   16 table of contents   as of december 31, 2012, we had an environmental reserve of approximately $1.5 million, related primarily to our foundry operations. this reserve is based on management’s review of potential liabilities as well as cost estimates related thereto. any expenditures required for us to comply with applicable environmental laws and/or pay for any remediation efforts will not be reduced or otherwise affected by the existence of the environmental reserve. our environmental reserve may not be adequate to cover our future costs related to the sites associated with the environmental reserve, and any additional costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. the discovery of additional environmental issues, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the promulgation of new ones, more vigorous enforcement by regulators, the imposition of joint and several liability under cercla or analogous state laws, or other unanticipated events could also result in a material adverse effect. the iron and steel foundry national emission standard for hazardous air pollutants (“neshap”) was developed pursuant to section 112(d) of the clean air act and requires major sources of hazardous air pollutants to install controls representative of maximum achievable control technology. based on currently available information, we do not anticipate material costs regarding ongoing compliance with the neshap; however if we are found to be out of compliance with the neshap, we could incur liability that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. at the erie, pennsylvania, facility, we have obtained an environmental insurance policy to provide coverage with respect to certain environmental liabilities. management does not believe that the outcome of any environmental proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. see “item 1—business—environmental matters.”   future climate change regulation may require us to make substantial expenditures or cause us to incur substantial liabilities.   many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased emissions of greenhouse gases (“ghgs”), which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit ghgs. in the recent past, congress has considered legislation that would have reduced ghg emissions through a cap-and-trade system of allowances and credits, under which emitters would be required to buy allowances to offset emissions. in addition, in late 2009, the epa promulgated a rule requiring certain emitters of ghgs to monitor and report data with respect to their ghg emissions and, in may 2010, finalized its “tailoring” rule for determining which stationary sources are required to obtain permits, or implement best available control technology, on account of their ghg emission levels. the epa is also expected to adopt additional rules in the future that will require permitting for ever-broader classes of ghg emission sources. moreover, several states, including states in which we have facilities, are considering or have begun to implement various ghg registration and reduction programs. certain of our facilities use significant amounts of energy and may emit amounts of ghgs above certain existing and/or proposed regulatory thresholds. ghg laws and regulations could increase the price of the energy we purchase, require us to purchase allowances to offset our own emissions, require us to monitor and report our ghg emissions or require us to install new emission controls at our facilities, any one of which could significantly increase our costs or otherwise negatively affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, future efforts to curb transportation-related ghgs could result in a lower demand for our products, which could negatively affect our business, results of operation or financial condition. while future ghg regulation appears likely, it is difficult to predict how these regulations will affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we might fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, or third parties might assert that our technologies infringe on their intellectual property. the protection of our intellectual property is important to our business. we rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, patents, and trade secrets to provide protection in this regard, but this protection might be inadequate. for example, our pending or future trademark, copyright, and patent applications might not be approved or, if allowed, they might not be of sufficient strength or scope. conversely, third parties might assert that our technologies or other intellectual property infringe on their proprietary rights. any intellectual property-related litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and, whether or not we are ultimately successful, the litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. see “item 1—business—intellectual property.”   17 table of contents   litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. we are regularly subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as workers’ compensation claims, osha investigations, employment disputes, unfair labor practice charges, customer and supplier disputes, intellectual property disputes, and product liability claims arising out of the conduct of our business. litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources from the operation of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. anti-takeover provisions, including our stockholder rights plan, could discourage or prevent potential acquisition proposals and a change of control, and thereby adversely impact the performance of our common stock. on november 9, 2011, our board of directors adopted a rights agreement (the “original rights agreement”) pursuant to which one purchase right was distributed as a dividend on each share of our common stock held of record as of the close of business on november 23, 2011.  on november 7, 2012, our board of directors adopted an amended and restated rights agreement (the “amended and restated rights agreement”), which modified the original rights agreement by extending the term of the original rights agreement to november 9, 2015, subject to stockholder approval at our 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, and making certain other adjustments.  on december 19, 2012, our board of directors amended the amended and restated rights agreement by shortening the term to april 30, 2014, subject to stockholder approval at our 2013 annual meeting of stockholders.  if our stockholders do not ratify the amended and restated rights agreement at our 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, the rights will automatically expire and the amended and restated rights agreement will terminate. upon becoming exercisable, each right will entitle its holder to purchase from the company one one-hundredth of a share of our series a junior participating preferred stock for the purchase price of $30.00. generally, the rights will become exercisable ten business days after the date on which any person or group becomes the beneficial owner of 20% or more of our common stock or has commenced a tender or exchange offer which, if consummated, would result in any person or group becoming the beneficial owner of 20% or more of our common stock, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the rights agreement. the rights are attached to the certificates representing outstanding shares of common stock until the rights become exercisable, at which point separate certificates will be distributed to the record holders of our common stock. if a person or group becomes the beneficial owner of 20% or more of our common stock, which we refer to as an “acquiring person,” each right will entitle its holder, other than the acquiring person, to receive upon exercise a number of shares of our common stock having a market value of two times the purchase price of the right. the rights agreement is designed to deter coercive takeover tactics and to prevent an acquirer from gaining control of the company without offering a fair price to all of our stockholders. the rights agreement is intended to accomplish these objectives by encouraging a potential acquirer to negotiate with our board of directors to have the rights redeemed or the rights agreement amended prior to such party exceeding the ownership thresholds set forth in the rights agreement. the existence of the rights agreement and the rights of holders of any other shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future, however, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock, and thereby adversely affect the price of our common stock. in addition, certain other anti-takeover provisions contained in our governing documents, including our advance notice bylaw and the fact that our stockholders may not call special meetings or take action by written consent, could also deter a change of control and negatively affect the price of our common stock. if a person were able to acquire a substantial amount of our common stock, however, including after the rights expire on the earlier of (i) the close of business on april 30, 2014 or (ii) the final adjournment of the company’s 2013 annual meeting of stockholders if stockholder approval of the amended and restated rights agreement, as amended, has not been received prior to such time, a change of control could be triggered under delaware general corporation law, our abl credit facility or the indenture governing our senior notes. if a change of control under our abl credit facility were to occur, we would need to obtain a waiver from our lenders or amend the facility. if a change of control under the indenture were to occur, we could be required to repurchase our senior notes at the option of the holders. if we are unable to obtain a waiver/amendment or repurchase the notes, as applicable, or otherwise refinance these debts, the lenders or noteholders, as applicable, could potentially accelerate these debts, and our liquidity and capital resources could be significantly limited and our business operations could be materially and adversely affected.   18 table of contents if we fail to retain our executive officers, our business could be harmed. our success largely depends on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers. their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly contribute to the success of our business and our results of operations. the loss of any one of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. all of our executive officers are at will, but, as noted below, many of them have a severance agreement. in addition, our future success and profitability will also depend, in part, upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel throughout our company. we have entered into typical severance arrangements with certain of our senior management employees, which may result in certain costs associated with strategic alternatives. severance and retention agreements with certain senior management employees provide that the participating executive is entitled to a regular severance payment if we terminate the participating executive’s employment without “cause” or if the participating executive terminates his or her employment with us for “good reason” (as these terms are defined in the agreement) at any time other than during a “protection period.” the regular severance benefit is equal to the participating executive’s base salary for one year. see “item 10—directors, executive officers, and corporate governance.” a protection period begins on the date on which a “change in control” (as defined in the agreement) occurs and ends 18 months after a “change in control”. the change in control severance benefit is payable to an executive if his or her employment is terminated during the protection period either by the participating executive for “good reason” or by us without “cause.” the change in control severance benefits for tier ii executives (messrs. dauch, adams, byrnes, hazlett, maniatis, martin and ms. blair) consist of a payment equal to 200% of the executive’s salary plus 200% of the greater of (i) the annualized incentive compensation to which the executive would be entitled as of the date on which the change of control occurs or (ii) the average incentive compensation award over the three years prior to termination. the change in control severance benefits for tier iii executives (mr. risch and other key executives) consist of a payment equal to 100% of the executive’s salary and 100% of the greater of (i) the annualized incentive compensation to which the executive would be entitled as of the date on which the change of control occurs or (ii) the average incentive compensation award over the three years prior to termination. if the participating executive’s termination occurs during the protection period, the severance and retention agreement also provides for the continuance of certain other benefits, including reimbursement for forfeitures under qualified plans and continued health, disability, accident and dental insurance coverage for the lesser of 18 months (or 12 months in the case of tier iii executives) from the date of termination or the date on which the executive receives such benefits from a subsequent employer. there are currently no tier i executives with severance and retention agreements.   neither the regular severance benefit nor the change in control severance benefit is payable if we terminate the participating executive’s employment for “cause,” if the executive voluntarily terminates his or her employment without “good reason” or if the executive’s employment is terminated as a result of disability or death. any payments to which the participating executive may be entitled under the agreement will be reduced by the full amount of any payments to which the executive may be entitled due to termination under any other severance policy offered by us. these agreements would make it costly for us to terminate certain of our senior management employees and such costs may also discourage potential acquisition proposals, which may negatively affect our stock price. our products may be rendered obsolete or less attractive by changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements. changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements may render certain of our products obsolete or less attractive. our ability to anticipate changes in these requirements, especially changes in regulatory standards, will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. we may not be able to comply in the future with new regulatory, legislative and/or industrial standards that may be necessary for us to remain competitive and certain of our products may, as a result, become obsolete or less attractive to our customers. our strategic initiatives may be unsuccessful, may take longer than anticipated, or may result in unanticipated costs. future strategic initiatives could include divestitures, acquisitions, and restructurings, the success and timing of which will depend on various factors. many of these factors are not in our control. in addition, the ultimate benefit of any acquisition would depend on the successful integration of the acquired entity or assets into our existing business. failure to successfully identify, complete, and/or integrate future strategic initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations, or financial condition. additionally, our strategy contemplates significant growth in international markets in which we have significantly less market share and experience than we have in our domestic operations and markets. an inability to penetrate these international markets could adversely affect our results of operations.   19 table of contents   our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.   in general, under section 382 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the internal revenue code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (“nols”), to offset future taxable income. future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under section 382 of the internal revenue code. for these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the nols reflected on our balance sheet, even if we maintain profitability.   risks related to our indebtedness our leverage and debt service obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to fulfill our obligations and make it more difficult for us to fund our operations. as of december 31, 2012, our total indebtedness was $330.0 million. our indebtedness and debt service obligations could have important negative consequences to us, including:   ● difficulty satisfying our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;   ● difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes;   ● increased vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions;   ● limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general;   ● placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, and   ● limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. in addition, our abl facility and the indenture governing our senior secured notes contain various covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and/or our subsidiaries. our failure to comply with any of these covenants, or our failure to make payments of principal or interest on our indebtedness, could result in an event of default, or trigger cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions under other agreements, which could result in these obligations becoming immediately due and payable, cause our creditors to terminate their lending commitments. any of the foregoing occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. despite our leverage, we and our subsidiaries will be able to incur more indebtedness. this could further exacerbate the risk immediately described above, including our ability to service our indebtedness. we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. although our abl credit facility and indenture governing our senior notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, such restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances indebtedness incurred in compliance with such restrictions (or with the consent of our lenders) could be substantial. for example, we may incur additional debt to, among other things, finance future acquisitions, expand through internal growth, fund our working capital needs, comply with regulatory requirements, respond to competition or for general financial reasons alone. to the extent new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the risks described above would increase. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. our business may not, however, generate sufficient cash flow from operations. future borrowings may not be available to us under our abl credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional equity capital or refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness. we are unable to predict the timing of such sales or the proceeds which we could realize from such sales, or whether we would be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.   20 table of contents risks related to our emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings   our actual financial results may vary significantly from the projections filed with the bankruptcy court, and investors should not rely on the projections. neither the projected financial information that we previously filed with the bankruptcy court in connection with the october 2009 to february 2010 chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings nor the financial information included in the disclosure statement filed with the bankruptcy court in conjunction with our chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings (the “disclosure statement”) should be considered or relied on in connection with the purchase of our common stock, or other securities. we were required to prepare projected financial information to demonstrate to the bankruptcy court the feasibility of the plan of reorganization and our ability to continue operations upon emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. this projected financial information was filed with the bankruptcy court as part of our disclosure statement approved by the bankruptcy court. the projections reflected numerous assumptions concerning anticipated future performance and prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and continue to be beyond our control and that may not materialize. projections are inherently subject to uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks. our actual results will vary from those contemplated by the projections for a variety of reasons including the subsequent sales of assets related to our discontinued operations, the acquisition of our camden, south carolina aluminum wheel manufacturing operations, various restructuring initiatives, and changes in the competitive landscape. furthermore, the projections were limited by the information available to us as of the date of the preparation of the projections, including production forecasts published by act publications for 2011 and beyond. therefore, variations from the projections may be material, and investors should not rely on such projections. because of the adoption of fresh-start accounting and the effects of the transactions contemplated by the plan of reorganization, financial information subsequent to february 26, 2010, will not be comparable to financial information prior to february 26, 2010. upon our emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, we adopted fresh-start accounting in accordance with the provisions of asc 852, reorganizations, pursuant to which the midpoint of the range of our reorganization value was allocated to our assets and liabilities in conformity with the procedures specified by asc 805, business combinations. accordingly, our consolidated statements of financial position and consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) subsequent to february 26, 2010, will not be comparable in many respects to our consolidated statements of financial position and consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) prior to february 26, 2010. the lack of comparable historical financial information may discourage investors from purchasing our capital stock. our emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings in february 2010 may limit our ability to offset future u.s. taxable income with tax losses and credits incurred prior to emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. in connection with our emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings in february 2010, we were able to retain a portion of our u.s. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (collectively, the “tax attributes”). however, internal revenue code (“irc”) sections 382 and 383 provide an annual limitation with respect to the ability of a corporation to utilize its tax attributes against future u.s. taxable income in the event of a change in ownership. our emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings is considered a change in ownership for purposes of irc section 382. in our situation, the limitation under the irc will be based on the value of our common stock on or around the time of emergence, and increased to take into account the recognition of built-in gains. as a result, our future u.s. taxable income may not be fully offset by the tax attributes if such income exceeds our annual limitation, and we may incur a tax liability with respect to such income. in addition, subsequent changes in ownership for purposes of the irc could further diminish our ability to utilize tax attributes.   21 table of contents we may be subject to claims that were not discharged in the chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. substantially all of the claims against us that arose prior to the date of our bankruptcy filing were resolved during our chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings or are in the process of being resolved in the bankruptcy court as part of the claims reconciliation process. although we anticipate that the remaining claims will be handled in due course with no material adverse effect to our business, financial operations or financial conditions, we cannot assure you that this will be the case or that the resolution of such claims will occur in a timely manner or at all. subject to certain exceptions (such as certain employee and customer claims) and as set forth in the plan of reorganization, all claims against and interests in us and our domestic subsidiaries that arose prior to the initiation of our chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings are (1) subject to compromise and/or treatment under the plan of reorganization and (2) discharged, in accordance with the bankruptcy code and terms of the plan of reorganization. pursuant to the terms of the plan of reorganization, the provisions of the plan of reorganization constitute a good faith compromise or settlement of all such claims and the entry of the order confirming the plan of reorganization or other orders resolving objections to claims constitute the bankruptcy court's approval of the compromise or settlement arrived at with respect to all such claims. circumstances in which claims and other obligations that arose prior to our bankruptcy filing may not have been discharged include instances where a claimant had inadequate notice of the bankruptcy filing. item 1b. unresolved