item 1a. risk factors the company’s business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks. some of these risks are described below and in the documents incorporated by reference, and investors should take these risks into account in evaluating any investment decision involving the company. this section does not describe all risks applicable to the company, its industry or business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material factors. there are a number of factors inhibiting revenue growth in the company’s paper machine clothing segment significant consolidation and rationalization in the paper industry in recent years reduced global consumption of pmc in certain markets. developments in digital media have adversely affected demand for newsprint and for printing and writing grades of paper in north america and europe, which has had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on demand for pmc in those markets. at the same time, technological advances in papermaking, including in pmc, while contributing to the papermaking efficiency of customers, have in some cases lengthened the useful life of our products and reduced the number of pieces required to produce the same volume of paper. these factors have had, and in future are likely to have, an adverse effect on pmc sales, and to keep the rate of any future growth in pmc sales lower than the rate of growth in paper production. the market for paper machine clothing in recent years was characterized by increased price competition, especially in europe, which negatively affected the company’s net sales and operating results. the company expects price competition to remain intense in all pmc markets during periods of customer consolidation, plant closures, or when major contracts are being renegotiated. the basic papermaking process, while it has undergone dramatic increases in efficiency and speed, has always relied on pmc. in the event that a paper machine builder or other person were to develop a commercially viable manner of paper manufacture that did not require pmc, sales of the company’s products in this segment could be expected to decline significantly. the recent recession had a significant impact on our customers and our business during 2008 and 2009; a recurrence, or lingering effects of general economic uncertainty, could negatively affect our customers and adversely affect our results of operations the global recession had a significant negative effect on the company and the markets in which it competes. a return of economic weakness, or a reversal or weakening of the current economic recovery, could have an adverse impact on the company’s business and results of operations. the company identifies in this section a number of risks, the effects of which may be exacerbated by an unfavorable economic climate. for example, unfavorable global economic and paper industry conditions may lead to greater consolidation and rationalization within the paper industry, further reducing global consumption of pmc. reduced consumption of pmc could in turn increase the risk of greater price competition within the pmc industry, and greater efforts by competitors to gain market share at the expense of the company. the albany door systems segment derives most of its revenue from the sale of high-performance doors, the purchase of which are normally capital expenditures, which some customers may forego or postpone if economic conditions are weak. sales in the company’s other business segments may also be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions. weak or unstable economic conditions also increase the risk that one or more of our customers could be unable to pay outstanding accounts receivable, whether as the result of bankruptcy or an inability to obtain working capital financing from banks or other lenders. in such a case, we could be forced to write off such accounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or liquidity. furthermore, many of our businesses design and manufacture products that are custom-designed for a specific customer application, at a specific location. in the event of a customer liquidity issue, the company could also be required to write off amounts that are included in inventories. 7     table of contents the company may fail to adequately protect its proprietary technology, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of its research and development efforts. proprietary trade secrets are a source of competitive advantage in each of our segments. if our trade secrets were to become available to competitors, it could have a negative impact on our competitive strength. we employ measures to maintain the confidential nature of these secrets, including maintaining employment and confidentiality agreements; maintaining clear policies intended to protect such trade secrets; educating our employees about such policies; clearly identifying proprietary information subject to such agreements and policies; and vigorously enforcing such agreements and policies. despite such measures, our employees, consultants, and third parties to whom such information may be disclosed in the ordinary course of our business may breach their obligations not to reveal such information, and any legal remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. some of the company’s competitors in the paper machine clothing segment have the capability to make and sell paper machines and papermaking equipment as well as other engineered fabrics although customers historically have viewed the purchase of paper machine clothing and the purchase of paper machines as separate purchasing decisions, the ability to coordinate research and development efforts, and to market machines and fabrics together could be perceived as providing a competitive advantage. this underscores the importance of the company’s ability to maintain the technical competitiveness and value of the company’s products, and a real or perceived failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. moreover, the company cannot predict how the nature of competition in this segment may continue to evolve as a result of future consolidation among the company’s competitors, or consolidation involving the company’s competitors and other suppliers to the company’s customers. in addition to the general risks that the company already faces outside the u.s., the company now conducts more of its manufacturing operations in emerging markets than it did in the past, which could involve many uncertainties for the company the company currently has manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. in 2010, 62.9% of consolidated net sales were generated by the company’s non-u.s. subsidiaries. operations outside of the u.s. are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: risks that governments may impose limitations on the company’s ability to repatriate funds; governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to the company, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; governments may seek to nationalize the company’s assets; or governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting the company’s business. in addition, emerging markets pose other uncertainties, including the protection of the company’s intellectual property, pressure on the pricing of the company’s products, and risks of political instability. the occurrence of any of these conditions could disrupt the company’s business or prevent it from conducting business in particular countries or regions of the world. conditions in the paper industry have required, and could further require, the company to reorganize its operations, which could result in significant expense and could pose risks to the company’s operations during the last several years, the company was engaged in significant restructuring that included the closing of a number of manufacturing operations in north america, europe, and australia. restructuring activities were intended to match the company’s manufacturing capacity to shifting global demand, and also to improve the efficiency of administrative processes. future shifting of customer demand, the need to reduce costs, or other factors could cause the company to determine in the future that additional restructuring steps are required. restructuring involves risks such as employee work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes, which can threaten uninterrupted production, maintenance of high product quality, meeting of customers’ delivery deadlines, and maintenance of administrative processes. increases in output in remaining manufacturing operations can likewise impose stress on these remaining facilities as they undertake the manufacture of greater volume and, in some cases, a greater variety of products. competitors can be quick to attempt to exploit these situations. although the company considers these risks, plans each step of the process carefully, 8     table of contents and works to reassure customers who could be affected by any such matters that their requirements will continue to be met, the company could lose customers and associated revenues if the company fails to plan properly or if the foregoing tactics are ineffective. the company may experience supply constraints due to the company’s reliance on a limited number of suppliers the company has relied on a number of suppliers of polymer fiber and monofilaments, key raw materials that the company uses in the manufacture of paper machine clothing. for the company’s european and asian production facilities, the company purchases most of its monofilament from third parties. for the company’s north american production facilities, the company currently produces a significant portion of the company’s own monofilament needs. while the company has always been able to meet its raw material needs in the past, the limited number of producers of polymer monofilaments creates the potential for disruption in supply. in addition, if the company’s own monofilament production facility were to shut down or cease production for any reason, including due to natural disaster, labor problems, or otherwise, there is no guarantee that the company would be able to replace any shortfall. lack of supply, delivery delays, or quality problems relating to supplied raw materials could harm the company’s production capacity and make it difficult to supply the company’s customers with products on time, which could have a negative impact on the company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. inflation as a result of changes in prices of commodities and labor costs may adversely impact our financial results of operations. the company is a significant user of petroleum-based products and metal components required for the manufacture of our products. the company also relies on the labor market in many regions of the world to meet our operational requirements. increases in the prices of such commodities or in labor costs, particularly in regions that are experiencing higher-levels of inflation, could increase our costs, and we may not be able to fully offset the effects through productivity improvements and cost reduction programs. the company is exposed to the risk of increased expense in health-care related costs we are largely self-insured for some employee and business risks, including health care and workers’ compensation programs in the united states. losses under all of these programs are accrued based upon estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries and service providers. however, these liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an illness or injury and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals to be adequate. the company also maintains stop-loss insurance policies to protect against catastrophic claims above certain limits. if actual results significantly differ from estimates, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially impacted by losses under these programs, as well as higher stop-loss premiums in future periods. at december 31, 2010, the company had outstanding long-term debt totaling $423.6 million. the company may not be able to repay its outstanding debt in the event that default provisions are triggered due to a breach of loan covenants existing borrowing agreements contain a number of covenants and financial ratios that the company is required to satisfy. the most restrictive of these covenants pertain to asset dispositions and prescribed leverage and interest coverage ratios. any breach of any such covenants or restrictions would result in a default under such agreements that would permit the lenders to declare all borrowings under such agreements to be immediately due and payable and, through cross default provisions, could entitle other lenders to accelerate their loans. in such an event, the company would need to modify or restructure all or a portion of such indebtedness. depending on prevailing economic conditions, the company might find it difficult to modify or restructure on attractive terms, or at all, and any modification, restructuring, or refinancing would, in the current environment, likely result in additional fees and higher interest expenses. we may incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness in the future, or we be unsuccessful in identifying cost-effective strategies for the repatriation of cash to repay debt. as of december 31, 2010, the 9     table of contents company had borrowed $237.0 million under its $390 million revolving credit facility. any additional indebtedness incurred could increase the risks associated with substantial leverage. these risks include limiting the company’s ability to make acquisitions or capital expenditures to grow the company’s business, limiting the company’s ability to withstand business and economic downturns, limiting the company’s ability to invest the company’s operating cash flow in the company’s business, and limiting the company’s ability to pay dividends. in addition, any such indebtedness could contain terms that are more restrictive than the company’s current facilities. there can be no assurance that the expected sales growth in the engineered composites segment will be realized management expects that the engineered composites segment will experience significant growth in net sales during the next several years. in order to support this growth, management expects increases in fixed costs and investments, which will likely result in this segment being cash-flow negative through the first half of this decade. future growth and long-term success in the engineered composites segment will depend, in part, on the success of new commercial and military aircraft programs. we are currently working with our customers on projects to supply components for a number of commercial, general aviation, and military aircraft programs. the company may not be successful in obtaining contracts, or the company may not be successful in the execution of contracts it obtains. in cases where the company secures contracts, cancellation, reductions, or delays of orders or contracts by our customers in any of these programs could also have a material adverse effect on revenues and earnings in this segment in any period. such events could also result in the write-off of deferred charges that have been accumulated in anticipation of future revenue streams. the company must successfully maintain and/or upgrade its information technology systems the company relies on various information technology systems to manage its operations. the company is currently implementing modifications and upgrades to its systems, including replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems, and acquiring new systems with new functionality. for example, the company began its implementation of the sap enterprise resource planning system in the fourth quarter of 2006. this implementation subjects the company to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of the company’s ability to fulfill customer orders, potential disruption of the internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time, and other risks of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems. these systems implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. any information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have an adverse effect on the company’s business and operations. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect the company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations we operate our business in many regions of the world, and currency rate movements can have a significant effect on operating results. changes in exchange rates can result in revaluation gains and losses that are recorded in selling, technical, general and research expenses or other income/expense, net. revaluation gains and losses occur when our business units have intercompany or third-party trade receivable or payable balances in a currency other than their local reporting (or functional) currency. operating results can also be affected by the translation of sales and costs, for each non-u.s. subsidiary, from the local functional currency to the u.s. dollar. the translation effect on the income statement is dependent on our net income or expense position in each non-u.s. currency in which we do business. a net income position exists when sales realized in a particular currency exceed expenses paid in that currency; a net expense position exists if the opposite is true. 10     table of contents the company is subject to legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, and has been named as defendant in a large number of suits relating to the actual or alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products we are subject to a variety of legal proceedings. pending proceedings that the company determines are material are disclosed in item 3, legal proceedings, of this annual report. litigation is an inherently unpredictable process and unanticipated negative outcomes are always possible. an adverse outcome in any period could have an adverse impact on the company’s operating results for that period. we are also subject to a variety of legal compliance risks. while we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that legal compliance risks will continue to exist and related legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, are likely to arise from time to time. failure to resolve successfully any legal proceedings related to compliance matters could have an adverse impact on our results in any period. a substantial portion of the company’s assets includes goodwill, and impairment in the value of the company’s goodwill could adversely affect the company’s assets and net income goodwill represented 9.0% and 8.9% of the company’s total assets as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. in 2008, the company recorded noncash charges of $72.7 million for impairment of goodwill, which was primarily due to adverse financial market conditions that caused a significant decrease in the market multiples and increase in the discount rates used in the impairment analysis. the company reviews goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events such as significant changes in the business climate, plant closures, changes in product offerings, or other circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. the company performs a test for goodwill impairment at least annually, in the second quarter of each year. if the company were required to record additional impairment charges in future periods, it would have the effect of decreasing the company’s earnings (or increasing the company’s losses), and the company’s stock price could decline as a result. changes in performance of pension plan assets and assumptions used to estimate our pension and postretirement benefit costs and liabilities could adversely affect our liabilities and net income we have pension and postretirement benefit costs and liabilities that are developed from actuarial valuations. as of december 31, 2010, liabilities under our defined benefit pension plans exceeded plan assets by $119.8 million ($44.7 million for the u.s. plan, $75.1 million for non-u.s. plans). additionally, the liability for unfunded postretirement welfare benefits in the united states totaled $72.1 million. we currently expect 2011 employer contributions under those plans to be approximately $18.5 million. inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including discount rates and return on plan assets, which are updated on an annual basis. we are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. changes in the related pension and postretirement benefit costs or credits may occur in the future due to changes in actual performance of pension plan investments and the assumptions used in the valuations. the amount of annual pension plan funding and annual expense is subject to many variables, including the investment return on pension plan assets and interest rates. weakness in investment returns and low interest rates could result in higher benefit plan expense and the need to make greater pension plan contributions in future years. changes in or interpretations of tax rules, structures, country profitability mix, and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates we are a united states based multinational company subject to tax in the united states and foreign tax jurisdictions. unanticipated changes in our tax rates, or tax policies of the countries in which we operate, could affect our future results of operations. our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in or interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, by structural changes in the company’s businesses, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. 11     table of contents the company has substantial deferred tax assets that could become impaired and result in a charge to earnings the company has a net deferred tax asset in several tax jurisdictions, including a u.s. asset of approximately $79.7 million at december 31, 2010. realization of this and other deferred tax assets is dependent upon many factors, including generation of future income in specific countries. lower than expected operating results, organizational changes, or changes in tax laws could result in those deferred tax assets becoming impaired, thus resulting in a charge to earnings. our business could be adversely affected by adverse outcomes of pending tax matters the company is currently under audit in u.s. and non-u.s. taxing jurisdictions, and the company’s position on certain tax matters relating to germany and canada are being contested by tax authorities in those countries. (these matters are discussed note 8 of notes to consolidated financial statements.) while the company believes that its positions are correct and that it has reserved adequately for such matters, a final adverse outcome with respect to one or more of these matters could have a material adverse impact on the company’s results in any period in which they occur. the company’s insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover other significant risk exposures in addition to asbestos-related claims, the company may be exposed to other liabilities related to the products and services we provide. the engineered composites segment is engaged in designing, developing, and manufacturing components for commercial jet aircraft and defense and technology systems and products. the company expects this portion of the business to grow in future periods. although the company maintains insurance for the risks associated with this business, there can be no assurance that the amount of our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities. in addition, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available to the company in the future at a cost that is acceptable. any material liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. legal, technological, political, and scientific developments regarding climate change may create new risks for the company although the company has not determined that existing or pending laws and regulations related to the environment are reasonably likely to have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operation, it is possible that various proposed legislative or regulatory initiatives related to climate change — such as cap-and-trade systems, increased limits on emissions of greenhouse gases, or other measures — could in the future have a material impact on customers in each of our segments. for example, customers in the paper industry could be required to incur greater costs in order to comply with such initiatives, which could have an adverse impact on their profitability or viability. this could in turn lead to further changes in the structure of the paper industry that could reduce demand for our products. the company also relies on electric power provided by public utilities to operate its facilities. any increased costs experienced by such providers could be passed along to the company and other power consumers in the form of higher rates, which could have a negative impact on our profitability. the standish family has a significant influence on our company and could prevent transactions that might be in the best interests of our other stockholders as of december 31, 2010, j. spencer standish and related persons (including christine l. standish and john c. standish, both directors of the company) and thomas r. beecher jr., as sole trustee of trusts for the benefit of descendants of j. spencer standish, held in the aggregate shares entitling them to cast approximately 54% of the combined votes entitled to be cast by all stockholders of the company. the standish family has significant influence over the management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. the standish family currently has, in the aggregate, sufficient voting power to elect all of our directors and determine the outcome of any shareholder action requiring a majority vote. this could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or a merger, consolidation, or other business combination at a premium price, even though it might be in the best interest of our other stockholders. 12     table of contents we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance rules of the new york stock exchange (the “nyse”) and qualify for, and rely on, certain exemptions from corporate governance requirements applicable to other listed companies as a result of the greater than 50% voting power of the standish family described above, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of the nyse. therefore, we are not required to comply with certain corporate governance rules that would otherwise apply to us as a listed company on the nyse. specifically, we have elected to avail ourselves of the provision exempting a controlled company from the requirement that the board of directors include a majority of “independent” directors (as defined by the rules of the nyse) and the requirement that the compensation and governance committees each be composed entirely of “independent” directors. should the interests of the standish family differ from those of other stockholders, the other stockholders would not be afforded such protections as might otherwise exist if our board of directors, or these committees, were controlled by directors who were independent of the standish family or our management. item 1b. unresolved