item 1a. risk factors the company’s business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks. some of these risks are described below and in the documents incorporated by reference, and investors should take these risks into account in evaluating any investment decision involving the company. this section does not describe all risks applicable to the company, its industry or business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material factors. a number of factors have had, and in future periods could have, an adverse impact on sales, profitability and cash flow in the company’s machine clothing segment 10   significant consolidation and rationalization in the paper industry in recent years has reduced global consumption of paper machine clothing in certain markets. developments in digital media have adversely affected demand for newsprint and for printing and writing grades of paper in north america and europe, which has had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on demand for paper machine clothing in those markets. at the same time, technological advances in papermaking, including in paper machine clothing, while contributing to the papermaking efficiency of customers, have in some cases lengthened the useful life of our products and reduced the number of pieces required to produce the same volume of paper. these factors have had, and in future are likely to have, an adverse effect on paper machine clothing sales. the market for paper machine clothing in recent years has been characterized by increased price competition, especially in europe, which has negatively affected our net sales and operating results. we expect price competition to remain intense in all paper machine clothing markets, especially during periods of customer consolidation, plant closures, or when major contracts are being renegotiated. aec is subject to significant execution risk related to the leap program in the short and medium-term the expected size and steep growth rate of the market for leap engines continues to put significant pressure on aec to execute in the short and medium-term. in the short term, aec must continue to fulfill critical product and process design and test milestones, continue to ramp production in the first leap plant in rochester, new hampshire, meet certain production readiness milestones, and continue the construction, equipping and staffing of the second leap plant in commercy, france. in the medium-term, aec will be required to continue to ramp up these new operations to full production. aec’s ability to realize the full growth potential of the leap program will depend on how effectively it accomplishes these goals. failure to accomplish these goals could have a material adverse impact on the amount and timing of anticipated leap program revenues, income, and cash flows, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial results. the long-term growth prospects of aec are subject to a number of risks future growth and long-term success of aec beyond the leap program will depend, in part, on the success of new commercial and military aircraft programs. aec is currently working with customers on projects to develop components for a number of commercial, general aviation, and military aircraft programs. these development projects may or may not result in supply opportunities. in the event that aec succeeds in developing products and securing contracts to manufacture and supply them, it will face the same industrialization and manufacturing ramp-up risks that it currently faces in the leap program, and may or may not be successful in meeting its obligations under these contracts. in addition to dealing with these development and manufacturing execution risks, future aec growth will likely require increasingly larger amounts of cash to fund the investments likely to be required in equipment, capital, and development efforts required to achieve this growth. while aec is starting to generate increasing amounts of cash, it is likely to be some time before aec generates sufficient cash to fund, or to obtain financing to fund, this growth. until that time, it will remain dependent on the machine clothing segment’s ability to generate cash, and a significant decline in machine clothing sales, operating income or cash flows could therefore have a material adverse impact on aec’s growth. some of the company’s competitors in the machine clothing segment have the capability to make and sell paper machines and papermaking equipment as well as other engineered fabrics although customers historically have tended to view the purchase of paper machine clothing and the purchase of paper machines as separate purchasing decisions, the ability to coordinate research and development efforts, and to market machines and fabrics together, could provide a competitive advantage. this 11   underscores the importance of our ability to maintain the technological competitiveness and value of our products, and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. moreover, we cannot predict how the nature of competition in this segment may continue to evolve as a result of future consolidation among our competitors, or consolidation involving our competitors and other suppliers to our customers. fixed-price contracts, contract or program terminations, reductions, cancellations, delays or other changes could result in losses or material write-offs in the engineered composites segment aec has a number of long-term or life-of-program fixed price contracts, and is likely to enter into similar contracts in future. while such contracts enable aec to enjoy increased profits as the result of cost reductions and efficiencies, estimations of contract costs and profitability over a long period of time are subject to many variables, and may prove to be inaccurate. additionally, many of the parts aec agrees to develop and produce have highly complex designs, and technical or quality issues may arise during development or production that result in higher costs or an inability to achieve required technical specifications. if actual production and/or development costs should prove higher, or revenues prove lower, than aec’s estimates, our expected profits may be reduced, or if such costs should exceed contract prices, we may be required to recognize losses for future periods, and potentially for the remaining life of the program, which could significantly affect our reported results.   in addition, the reduction or delay of orders by aec’s customers under these contracts, or the termination of such contracts or orders, including those relating to the leap program, could also have a material adverse effect on aec revenues and earnings in any period. such events could also result in the write-off of deferred charges that have been accumulated in anticipation of future revenue streams. the standish family has a significant influence on our company and could prevent transactions that might be in the best interests of our other stockholders as of december 31, 2013, j. spencer standish and related persons (including christine l. standish and john c. standish, both directors of the company) held in the aggregate shares entitling them to cast approximately 53% of the combined votes entitled to be cast by all stockholders of the company. the standish family has significant influence over the management and affairs of the company and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. the standish family currently has, in the aggregate, sufficient voting power to elect all of our directors and determine the outcome of any shareholder action requiring a majority vote. this could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or a merger, consolidation, or other business combination at a premium price, even though it might be in the best interest of our other stockholders. deterioration of current global economic conditions could have an adverse impact on the company’s business and results of operations the company identifies in this section a number of risks, the effects of which may be exacerbated by an unfavorable economic climate. for example, unfavorable global economic and paper industry conditions may lead to greater consolidation and rationalization within the paper industry, further reducing global consumption of paper machine clothing. reduced consumption of paper machine clothing could in turn increase the risk of greater price competition within the paper machine clothing industry, and greater efforts by competitors to gain market share at the expense of the company. sales of the company’s other machine clothing products, as well as in the company’s aec business segment, may also be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions. 12   weak or unstable economic conditions also increase the risk that one or more of our customers could be unable to pay outstanding accounts receivable, whether as the result of bankruptcy or an inability to obtain working capital financing from banks or other lenders. in such a case, we could be forced to write off such accounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or liquidity. furthermore, many of our businesses design and manufacture products that are custom-designed for a specific customer application, at a specific location. in the event of a customer liquidity issue, the company could also be required to write off amounts that are included in inventories. the company may experience supply constraints due to a limited number of suppliers of certain raw materials and equipment there are a limited number of suppliers of polymer fiber and monofilaments, key raw materials used in the manufacture of machine clothing, and of carbon fiber and carbon resin, key raw materials used by aec. in addition, there are a limited number of suppliers of some of the equipment used by aec. while we have always been able to meet our raw material and equipment needs, the limited number of suppliers of these items creates the potential for disruptions in supply. aec currently relies on single suppliers to meet the carbon fiber and carbon resin requirements for the leap program. lack of supply, delivery delays, or quality problems relating to supplied raw materials for our key manufacturing equipment could harm our production capacity, and could require the company to attempt to qualify one or more additional suppliers, which could be a lengthy and uncertain process. such disruptions could make it difficult to supply our customers with products on time, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. conditions in the paper industry have required, and could further require, the company to reorganize its operations, which could result in significant expense and could pose risks to the company’s operations during the last several years, we have engaged in significant restructuring that included the closing of a number of manufacturing operations in north america, europe, and australia. these restructuring activities were intended to match manufacturing capacity to shifting global demand, and also to improve the efficiency of manufacturing and administrative processes. future shifting of customer demand, the need to reduce costs, or other factors could cause us to determine in the future that additional restructuring steps are required. restructuring involves risks such as employee work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes, which can threaten uninterrupted production, maintenance of high product quality, meeting of customers’ delivery deadlines, and maintenance of administrative processes. increases in output in remaining manufacturing operations can likewise impose stress on these remaining facilities as they undertake the manufacture of greater volume and, in some cases, a greater variety of products. competitors can be quick to attempt to exploit these situations. although we consider these risks, we plan each step of the process carefully, and work to reassure customers who could be affected by any such matters that their requirements will continue to be met, we could lose customers and associated revenues if we fail to plan properly, or if the foregoing tactics are ineffective. we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance rules of the new york stock exchange (the “nyse”) and qualify for, and rely on, certain exemptions from corporate governance requirements applicable to other listed companies as a result of the greater than 50% voting power of the standish family described above, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of the nyse. therefore, we are not required to comply with certain corporate governance rules that would otherwise apply to us as a listed company on the nyse, including the requirement that the compensation and governance committees be composed entirely of “independent” directors (as defined by the nyse rules). in addition, although we believe that a majority of our current directors may be deemed independent under the nyse rules, as a controlled company our board of directors is not required to include a majority of “independent” directors. should the interests of the standish family differ from 13   those of other stockholders, the other stockholders might not be afforded such protections as might exist if our board of directors, or these committees, were required to have a majority, or be composed exclusively, of directors who were independent of the standish family or our management. inflation as a result of changes in prices of commodities and labor costs may adversely impact our financial results of operations the company is a significant user of petroleum-based products required for the manufacture of our products. the company also relies on the labor market in many regions of the world to meet our operational requirements. increases in the prices of such commodities or in labor costs, particularly in regions that are experiencing higher-levels of inflation, could increase our costs, and we may not be able to fully offset the effects through price increases, productivity improvements, and cost-reduction programs. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect the company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations we operate our business in many regions of the world, and currency rate movements can have a significant effect on operating results. changes in exchange rates can result in revaluation gains and losses that are recorded in selling, technical, general and research expenses or other income/expense, net. revaluation gains and losses occur when our business units have cash, intercompany or third-party trade receivable or payable balances in a currency other than their local reporting (or functional) currency. operating results can also be affected by the translation of sales and costs, for each non-u.s. subsidiary, from the local functional currency to the u.s. dollar. the translation effect on the income statement is dependent on our net income or expense position in each non-u.s. currency in which we do business. a net income position exists when sales realized in a particular currency exceed expenses paid in that currency; a net expense position exists if the opposite is true. the company may fail to adequately protect its proprietary technology, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of its research and development efforts proprietary trade secrets are a source of competitive advantage in each of our segments. if our trade secrets were to become available to competitors, it could have a negative impact on our competitive strength. we employ measures to maintain the confidential nature of these secrets, including maintaining employment and confidentiality agreements; maintaining clear policies intended to protect such trade secrets; educating our employees about such policies; clearly identifying proprietary information subject to such agreements and policies; and vigorously enforcing such agreements and policies. despite such measures, our employees, consultants, and third parties to whom such information may be disclosed in the ordinary course of our business may breach their obligations not to reveal such information, and any legal remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. at december 31, 2013, the company had outstanding short-term debt of $3.8 million and long-term debt of $300.1 million. the company may not be able to repay its outstanding debt in the event that default provisions are triggered due to a breach of loan covenants existing borrowing agreements contain a number of covenants and financial ratios that the company is required to satisfy. the most restrictive of these covenants pertain to prescribed leverage and interest coverage ratios and asset dispositions. any breach of any such covenants or restrictions would result in a default under such agreements that would permit the lenders to declare all borrowings under such agreements to be immediately due and payable and, through cross-default provisions, could entitle other lenders to accelerate their loans. in such an event, the company would need to modify or restructure all or a portion of such indebtedness. depending on prevailing economic conditions at the time, the company might find it difficult to modify or restructure on attractive terms, or at all. 14   we may incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness in the future. as of december 31, 2013, we had borrowed $200 million under our $330 million revolving credit facility. incurrence of additional indebtedness could increase the risks associated with higher leverage. these risks include limiting our ability to make acquisitions or capital expenditures to grow our business, limiting our ability to withstand business and economic downturns, limiting our ability to invest operating cash flow in our business, and limiting our ability to pay dividends. in addition, any such indebtedness could contain terms that are more restrictive than our current facilities. the company is increasingly dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cyber security and data leakage risks. we are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. there is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. while we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches. if we experience such a breach or breakdown, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. the company is subject to legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, and has been named as defendant in a large number of suits relating to the actual or alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products we are subject to a variety of legal proceedings. pending proceedings that the company determines are material are disclosed in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. litigation is an inherently unpredictable process and unanticipated negative outcomes are always possible. an adverse outcome in any period could have an adverse impact on the company’s operating results for that period. we are also subject to a variety of legal compliance risks. while we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that legal compliance risks will continue to exist and related legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, are likely to arise from time to time. failure to resolve successfully any legal proceedings related to compliance matters could have an adverse impact on our results in any period. changes in actuarial assumptions and differences between actual experience and assumptions could adversely affect our pension and postretirement benefit costs and liabilities although we were able to reduce pension liabilities by a significant amount during 2012, as of december 31, 2013, remaining net liabilities under our defined benefit pension plans exceeded plan assets by $35.9 million ($11.4 million for the u.s. plan, $24.5 million for non-u.s. plans). additionally, the liability for unfunded postretirement welfare benefits, principally in the united states, totaled $61.1 million. annual expense associated with these plans, as well as annual cash contributions, are subject to a number of variables, including discount rates, return on plan assets, mortality, and differences between actuarial assumptions and actual experience. in 2012, we settled certain pension obligations in the united states, canada and sweden, which led to charges 15   totaling $119.7 million. if we were to take actions to settle additional pension or postretirement plan liabilities in the future, we could incur significant additional charges in the periods in which such actions were taken. although the company has taken actions to hedge certain pension plan assets to the pension liabilities, weakness in investment returns on plan assets, changes in discount rates or actuarial assumptions, and actual future experience could result in higher benefit plan expense and the need to increase pension plan contributions in future years, which could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. the company is exposed to the risk of increased expense in health-care related costs we are largely self-insured for some employee and business risks, including health care and workers’ compensation programs in the united states. losses under all of these programs are accrued based upon estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries and service providers. however, these liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an illness or injury and the number of incidents not reported. the accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals to be adequate. the company also maintains stop-loss insurance policies to protect against catastrophic claims above certain limits. if actual results significantly differ from estimates, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially impacted by losses under these programs, as well as higher stop-loss premiums in future periods. changes in or interpretations of tax rules, structures, country profitability mix, and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates we are a united states-based multinational company subject to tax in the united states and foreign tax jurisdictions. unanticipated changes in our tax rates, or tax policies of the countries in which we operate, could affect our future results of operations. our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in or interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, by structural changes in the company’s businesses, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. the company has substantial deferred tax assets that could become impaired and result in a charge to earnings the company has deferred tax assets in several tax jurisdictions, including a u.s. asset of approximately $73.2 million at december 31, 2013. realization of this and other deferred tax assets is dependent upon many factors, including generation of future income in specific countries. lower than expected operating results, organizational changes, or changes in tax laws could result in those deferred tax assets becoming impaired, thus resulting in a charge to earnings. our business could be adversely affected by adverse outcomes of pending tax matters the company is currently under audit in a non-u.s. taxing jurisdiction, and the company’s position on certain tax matters are being contested by tax authorities in this country. (this is discussed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference.) while the company believes that its position is correct and that it has reserved adequately for such matter, a final adverse outcome with respect to this matter could have a material adverse impact on the company’s results in any period in which it occurs. 16   the company’s insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover other significant risk exposures in addition to asbestos-related claims, the company may be exposed to other liabilities related to the products and services we provide. aec is engaged in designing, developing, and manufacturing components for commercial jet aircraft and defense and technology systems and products. we expect this portion of the business to grow in future periods. although we maintain insurance for the risks associated with this business, there can be no assurance that the amount of our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities. in addition, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available to us in the future at a cost that is acceptable. any material liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition to the general risks that the company already faces outside the u.s., the company now conducts more of its manufacturing operations in emerging markets than it did in the past, which could involve many uncertainties we currently have manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. in 2013, 55.3% of consolidated net sales were generated by our non-u.s. subsidiaries. operations outside of the u.s. are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments from our non-u.s. operations, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; governments may seek to nationalize our assets; or governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. in addition, emerging markets pose other uncertainties, including the protection of our intellectual property, pressure on the pricing of our products, and risks of political instability. the occurrence of any of these conditions could disrupt our business or prevent us from conducting business in particular countries or regions of the world. our global presence subjects us to certain risks, including controls on foreign exchange and the repatriation of funds. however, we have been able to repatriate current earnings in excess of working capital requirements from certain countries in which we operate without substantial governmental restrictions and do not foresee any material changes in our ability to continue to do so in the future. in addition, we believe that the risks associated with our operations outside the united states are no greater than those normally associated with doing business in those locations. the company is subject to laws and regulations worldwide, changes to which could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations the company is subject to laws and regulations relating to employment practices and benefits, taxes, import and export matters, corruption, foreign-exchange controls, competition, workplace health and safety, intellectual property, health-care, the environment and other areas. these laws and regulations have a significant impact on our domestic and international operations. we incur significant expenses to comply with laws and regulations. changes or additions to laws and regulations, including those related to climate change, could increase these expenses, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. such changes could also have an adverse impact on our customers and suppliers, which in turn could adversely impact the company. while we have implemented policies and training programs designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees or agents will not violate such laws, regulations or policies, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. item 1b. 	unresolved