item 1a. risk factors please read this section along with the description of our business in item 1, the competition section just above and alliancebernstein’s financial information contained in items 6, 7 and 8. the majority of the risk factors discussed below directly affect alliancebernstein. these risk factors also affect holding because holding’s principal source of income and cash flow is attributable to its investment in alliancebernstein. see also “cautions regarding forward-looking statements” in item 7. our ability to retain clients and increase our aum depends, in part, on our absolute and relative investment performance. our largest equity services continued to underperform during 2011. poor investment performance, should it continue, will lead to the continued loss of clients and an ongoing decline in aum and revenues, and could lead to a downgrade in our credit ratings and a reduced ability to access credit on reasonable terms. since the financial crisis of 2008, we have underperformed benchmarks in many of our services, particularly our large cap equities services. in 2011, extreme volatility in the global equity and corporate and high yield fixed income markets reduced investor confidence and made it difficult for most asset managers, including our firm, to produce returns that met client expectations. it is likely that our underperformance in many of our services during 2011 will place continued pressure on our flows during 2012, particularly in our institutions channel. our ability to achieve investment returns for clients that meet or exceed investment returns for comparable asset classes and competing investment services is a key consideration when clients decide to keep their assets with us or invest additional assets, and when a prospective client is deciding whether to invest with us. poor investment performance, both in absolute terms and/or relative to peers and stated benchmarks, has resulted, and is likely to continue to result, in clients withdrawing assets and in prospective clients choosing to invest with competitors. the resulting lower aum levels have led, and are likely to continue to lead, to lower investment management fees, including minimal or no performance-based fees; lower investment management fees have resulted, and are likely to continue to result, in revenue declines. our access to credit on reasonable terms is partially dependent on our firm’s credit ratings. both standard & poor’s ratings services (“s&p”) and moody’s investors service (“moody’s”) affirmed alliancebernstein’s long-term senior debt rating during 2011, but each rating agency changed our firm’s outlook to “negative” from “stable” primarily due to continued outflows and weak investment performance. s&p, in its press release, cited factors that could result in a downgrade to our firm’s long-term rating, including continued net outflows during 2012, a spike in net outflows in a particular quarter and a decline in aum due to substantial market depreciation, affecting our firm’s profitability and cash flow. moody’s, in its press release, also cited factors that could result in a downgrade to our firm’s long-term rating, including the persistence of outflows, a decline in average aum to below $375 billion and investment performance of key services that continues to fall materially below applicable benchmarks. a downgrade to our credit ratings is likely to increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. volatility in and disruption of the global capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, are likely to significantly affect our aum; any significant reduction in our aum can have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business prospects. the mix, market value and level of our aum are affected by the performance of financial markets (both domestic and international), global economic conditions, industry trends, interest rates, inflation rates, tax regulation changes and other factors that are difficult to predict. investment advisory and services fees, the largest component of our revenues, are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of aum and vary with the type of account managed. accordingly, fee income generally increases or decreases as aum increase or decrease and is affected by market appreciation or depreciation, inflow of new client assets (including purchases of mutual fund shares) and outflow of client assets (including redemption of mutual fund shares). in addition, changing market conditions and investment trends, particularly with respect to retirement savings, may reduce interest in certain of our investment products and may result in a reduction in aum. in 2011, particularly during the third quarter, the capital and credit markets continued to experience volatility and disruption worldwide as the escalation of europe’s sovereign debt crisis, the u.s. debt ceiling debate and resulting s&p downgrade of u.s. credit, and further weakening in the u.s. economy led to equity declines not seen since the financial crisis. corporate and high yield fixed income markets experienced extreme volatility. these conditions, combined with net outflows across our three buy-side distribution channels, resulted in significant decreases in our aum, revenues and net income. future disruption of the capital and credit markets is likely to result in further net outflows, which may severely impact our results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to obtain funds and/or financing, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our strategic plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects.   19 table of contents the amount and mix of our aum are subject to significant fluctuations, which may adversely affect our fee levels and results of operations. fluctuations in the amount and mix of our aum may be attributable in part to conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future may have, a negative effect on our revenues and income. we derive substantially all of our revenues and income from providing investment research and management and related services, so a decrease in the level of our aum, whether resulting from negative investment performance, client outflows or other factors, would adversely affect our revenues and income. a shift from active equity services towards fixed income services and passive services has resulted, and may continue to result, in a corresponding decline in our revenues and income because we generally earn higher fees from assets invested in our active equity services than in our fixed income services or passive services. a shift from global and international services to u.s. services is likely to have a similar effect. the global economic turmoil experienced during the third quarter of 2011 caused some investors to further shift their investment preferences from active equities to fixed income, passive and money market products (some of which we do not offer). this trend continued during the fourth quarter of 2011 and may continue or accelerate in the future. conversely, increases in interest rates, particularly if rapid, or high interest rates, as well as uncertainty in the future direction of interest rates, may adversely affect our fixed income services because rising interest rates and interest rate uncertainty typically decrease the total return of many bond investments due to lower market valuations of existing bonds. in addition, we may be required to reduce our fee levels, or restructure the fees we charge, because of, among other things, regulatory initiatives (whether industry-wide or specifically targeted), court decisions and competitive considerations. a reduction in fees would reduce our revenues. a reduction in revenues, without a commensurate reduction in expenses, will adversely affect our results of operations. an impairment of goodwill may occur. as a result of increased uncertainty and current market dynamics, determining whether an impairment of the goodwill asset exists is increasingly difficult and requires management to exercise significant judgment. in addition, to the extent that securities valuations are depressed for prolonged periods of time and market conditions stagnate or worsen, or if we continue to experience significant net redemptions, our aum, revenues, profitability and unit price may continue to be adversely affected. although the price of a holding unit is just one factor in the calculation of fair value, if current holding unit price levels continue or decline further, reaching the conclusion that fair value exceeds carrying value will, over time, become more difficult. as a result, subsequent impairment tests are likely to occur more frequently and be based on more negative assumptions and future cash flow projections, which may result in an impairment of goodwill. an impairment may result in a material charge to our earnings. for additional information about our impairment testing, see item 7. our business is dependent on investment advisory, selling and distribution agreements that are subject to termination or non-renewal on short notice. we derive most of our revenues pursuant to written investment management agreements (or other arrangements) with institutional investors, mutual funds and private clients, and selling and distribution agreements between alliancebernstein investments and financial intermediaries that distribute alliancebernstein funds. generally, the investment management agreements (and other arrangements) are terminable at any time or upon relatively short notice by either party. the selling and distribution agreements are terminable by either party upon notice (generally 30 days) and do not obligate the financial intermediary to sell any specific amount of fund shares. in addition, investors in alliancebernstein funds can redeem their investments without notice. any termination of, or failure to renew, a significant number of these agreements, or a significant increase in redemption rates, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business prospects. furthermore, the investment management agreements pursuant to which we manage the u.s. funds must be renewed and approved by the funds’ boards of directors annually. a significant majority of the directors are independent. consequently, there can be no assurance that the board of directors of each fund will approve the fund’s investment management agreement each year, or will not condition its approval on revised terms that may be adverse to us. our ability to establish new client relationships and maintain existing ones is partly dependent on our relationships with various financial intermediaries and consultants that are not obligated to continue to work with us. our ability to market our retail products and services, sub-advisory services and certain other investment services is partly dependent on our access to securities firms, brokers, banks and other intermediaries. these intermediaries generally offer their clients investment products that compete with our products. in addition, certain institutional investors rely on consultants to advise them on choosing an investment adviser, and our large cap equity institutional services currently are not considered among the best choices by consultants. also, our private client services group relies on referrals from financial planners, registered investment advisers and other professionals. we cannot be certain that we will continue to have access to, or receive referrals from, these third parties. loss of such access or referrals could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business prospects. for example, a number of investment consultants have advised their clients to move their assets away from us to other investment advisers, which has contributed to significant net outflows. this trend may continue.   20 table of contents we may be unable to continue to attract, motivate and retain key personnel, and the cost to retain key personnel could put pressure on our operating margin. our business depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled, and often highly specialized, technical, managerial and executive personnel; there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. the market for qualified research analysts, portfolio managers, financial advisers, traders and other professionals is extremely competitive and is characterized by frequent movement of these investment professionals among different firms. in 2011, some of our senior professionals left the firm; additional departures may occur. portfolio managers and financial advisers often maintain strong, personal relationships with their clients so their departure could cause us to lose client accounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business prospects. if our revenues continue to decline during 2012, it will place significant added pressure on our ability to pay our employees at competitive levels. as a result, we will continue to be vigilant about scaling our cost structure (including headcount) to our revenue base. our operating margin may decline if we increase compensation to retain key personnel without a commensurate increase in revenues. performance-based fee arrangements with our clients cause greater fluctuations in our revenues. we sometimes charge our clients performance-based fees. in these situations, we charge a base advisory fee and are eligible to earn an additional performance-based fee or incentive allocation that is calculated as either a percentage of absolute investment results or a percentage of investment results in excess of a stated benchmark over a specified period of time. in addition, some performance-based fees include a high-watermark provision, which generally provides that if a client account underperforms relative to its performance target (whether absolute or relative to a specified benchmark), it must gain back such underperformance before we can collect future performance-based fees. therefore, if we fail to achieve the performance target for a particular period, we will not earn a performance-based fee for that period and, for accounts with a high-watermark provision, our ability to earn future performance-based fees will be impaired. we are eligible to earn performance-based fees on approximately 11% of the assets we manage for institutional clients and approximately 3% of the assets we manage for private clients (in total, approximately 7% of our company-wide aum). if the percentage of our aum subject to performance-based fees grows, seasonality and volatility of revenue and earnings are likely to become more significant. our performance-based fees in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $16.5 million, $20.5 million and $29.8 million, respectively. we may engage in strategic transactions that could pose risks. as part of our business strategy, we consider potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures and similar transactions, some of which may be material. these transactions, if undertaken, may involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including:   ÿ adverse effects on our earnings if acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired;   ÿ existence of unknown liabilities or contingencies that arise after closing; and   ÿ potential disputes with counterparties. acquisitions also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. additionally, the acquisition of investment personnel (such as the equity investment management team we acquired in may 2011) poses the risk that we may lose the aum we expected to manage, which could adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, strategic transactions may require us to increase our leverage or, if we issue alliancebernstein units or holding units to fund an acquisition, dilute the holdings of our existing unitholders.   21 table of contents because many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the united states and have functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. although significant portions of our net revenues and expenses, as well as our aum, are presently derived from the united states, we have subsidiaries outside of the united states with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. as a result, fluctuations in exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. we may not be successful in our efforts to hedge our exposure to such fluctuations, which could have a negative effect on our reported financial results. we enter into various futures, forward and swap contracts to economically hedge certain of our seed money investments and may be exposed to market risk and credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to these derivative instruments. by using derivative financial instruments, our firm is exposed to market risk and counterparty risk. we enter into various futures, forward and swap contracts to economically hedge certain of our seed money investments. in addition, we have currency forwards that economically hedge certain cash accounts. we may be exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to these derivative financial instruments. we also may be exposed to market risk from forward foreign currency exchange contracts as a result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the individuals, counterparties or issuers on which we rely in the course of performing services for us or our clients may be unable or unwilling to honor their contractual obligations to us. we rely on various third party counterparties and other vendors to fulfill their obligations to us, whether specified by contract, course of dealing or otherwise. default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress. furthermore, disruptions in the financial markets and other economic challenges, like those presented by the global financial turmoil during the third quarter of 2011, may cause our counterparties and other vendors to experience significant cash flow problems or even render them insolvent, which may expose us to significant costs. maintaining adequate liquidity for our general business needs depends upon certain factors, including operating cash flows and our access to credit on reasonable terms. our financial condition is dependent on our cash flow from operations, which is subject to the performance of the capital markets, our ability to maintain and grow aum and other factors beyond our control. our ability to issue public or private debt on reasonable terms may be limited by adverse market conditions, our profitability, our creditworthiness as perceived by lenders and changes in government regulations, including tax rates and interest rates. furthermore, our access to bank credit or the debt markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. a downgrade to our credit ratings is likely to increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. if we are unable to obtain funds and/or financing, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our strategic plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. unpredictable events, including natural disaster, dangerous weather conditions, technology failure, terrorist attack and political unrest, may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. war, terrorist attack, political unrest in the middle east, the pacific rim and elsewhere, power failure, climate change, natural disaster and rapid spread of serious disease could interrupt our operations by:   • causing disruptions in u.s. or global economic conditions, thereby decreasing investor confidence and making investment products generally less attractive;   • inflicting loss of life;   • triggering massive technology failures or delays; and   • requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage and restore operations. our operations require experienced, professional staff. loss of a substantial number of such persons or an inability to provide properly equipped places for them to work may, by disrupting our operations, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects.   22 table of contents we are highly dependent on various software applications, technologies and other systems for our business to function properly and to safeguard confidential information; any significant limitation, failure or security breach of these systems could constrain our operations. we utilize software and related technologies throughout our business, including both proprietary systems and those provided by outside vendors. we use our technology to, among other things, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology and established and tested business continuity plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war and third-party failures. we cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from our failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. these adverse effects could include the inability to perform critical business functions or failure to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, which could lead to loss of client confidence, harm to our reputation, exposure to disciplinary action and liability to our clients. accordingly, potential system failures and the cost necessary to correct those failures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business prospects. in addition, we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. although we take protective measures, our systems could still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently or intentionally causing us to release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information and require significant time and expense to investigate and remediate the breach. moreover, loss of confidential client information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenues. also, although we take precautions to password protect and encrypt our laptops and other mobile electronic hardware, if such hardware is stolen, misplaced or left unattended, it may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions. most of the software applications that we use in our business are licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. a suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption. in addition, technology rapidly evolves and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced technology platforms for their products and services, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our results of operations and business prospects. the quantitative models we use in certain of our investment services may contain errors, resulting in imprecise risk assessments and unintended output. we use quantitative models in a variety of our investment services, generally in combination with fundamental research. our quantitative models are validated by senior quantitative professionals. in 2010, we formed our model risk working group, the purpose of which is to formalize and oversee a quantitative model governance framework, including minimum validation standards. however, due to the complexity of such models, it is possible that errors in the models could exist and our controls could fail to detect such errors. failure to detect errors could result in client losses and damage to our reputation. our own operational failures or those of third parties we rely on, including failures arising out of human error, could disrupt our business, damage our reputation and reduce our revenues. weaknesses or failures in our internal processes or systems could lead to disruption of our operations, liability to clients, exposure to disciplinary action or harm to our reputation. our business is highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, large numbers of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets. these transactions generally must comply with investment guidelines, as well as stringent legal and regulatory standards. despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our operations and the communities in which they are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services we may use or third parties with which we conduct business. if a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to conduct business with and on behalf of our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. our obligations to clients require us to exercise skill, care and prudence in performing our services. despite our employees being highly trained and skilled, the large number of transactions we process makes it highly likely that errors will occasionally occur. should we make a mistake in performing our services that costs a client money, we have a duty to act promptly to put the client in the position the client would have been in had we not made the error. the occurrence of mistakes, particularly significant ones, can have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and business prospects.   23 table of contents we may not accurately value the securities we hold on behalf of our clients or our company investments. in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, contractual obligations or client direction, we employ procedures for the pricing and valuation of securities and other positions held in client accounts or for company investments. we have established a valuation committee, composed of senior officers and employees, which oversees pricing controls and valuation processes. where market quotations for a security are not readily available, the valuation committee determines a fair value for the security. extraordinary volatility in financial markets, significant liquidity constraints or our not adequately accounting for one or more factors when fair valuing a security based on information with limited market observability could result in our failing to properly value securities we hold for our clients or investments accounted for on our balance sheet. improper valuation would likely result in our basing fee calculations on inaccurate aum figures, our striking incorrect net asset values for company-sponsored mutual funds, hedge funds or, in the case of company investments, our inaccurately calculating and reporting our financial condition and operating results. although the overall percentage of our aum that we fair value based on information with limited market observability is not significant, inaccurate fair value determinations can harm our clients, create regulatory issues and negatively affect our reputation. we may not have sufficient information to confirm or review the accuracy of valuations provided to us by underlying external managers for the funds in which certain of our alternative investment products invest. certain of our alternative investment services invest in funds managed by external managers (“external managers”) rather than investing directly in securities and other instruments. as a result, our abilities will be limited to (i) monitor such investments, (ii) regularly obtain complete, accurate and current information with respect to such investments and (iii) exercise control over such investments. accordingly, we may not have sufficient information to confirm or review the accuracy of valuations provided to us by external managers. in addition, we will be required to rely on external managers’ compliance with any applicable investment guidelines and restrictions. any failure of an external manager to operate within such guidelines or to provide accurate information with respect to the investment, could subject our alternative investment products to losses and cause damage to our reputation. our results of operations and reputation could continue to suffer if we are unable to deliver consistent, competitive investment performance. our business is based on the trust and confidence of our clients, and we are dedicated to earning and maintaining this trust and confidence. damage to our reputation can substantially reduce our aum and impair our ability to maintain or grow our business. our continued underperformance over the last few years in our largest equity investment services damaged our reputation among many clients, prospects and consultants. we are focused on delivering consistent, competitive investment performance in 2012 and, in so doing, rebuilding our reputation. failure in this endeavor, however, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and business prospects. we may not always successfully manage actual and potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. we increasingly must manage actual and potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where certain of our employees have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with all employees of our firm. failure to adequately address potential conflicts of interest could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations and business prospects. we have procedures and controls that are designed to identify and mitigate conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information. however, appropriately managing conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. rates we charge for brokerage transactions have declined significantly over the last several years, and declines may continue. in addition, turmoil in global capital markets and economies may reduce market volumes. combined, these two factors may adversely affect bernstein research services revenue. electronic, or “low-touch”, trading approaches represent a significant percentage of buy-side trading activity and produce transaction fees for execution-only services that are a small fraction of traditional full service fee rates. as a result, blended pricing for the industry and scb has declined over the last several years. in addition, fee rates charged by scb and other brokers for traditional brokerage services have also historically experienced price pressure, and we expect these trends to continue. while increases in transaction volume and market share have in the past often offset decreases in rates, this may not continue. recent economic and market turmoil has severely impacted much of scb’s client base, which in the near-term may adversely affect transaction volume generally.   24 table of contents despite our efforts to manage exposures from principal positions taken by our sell-side business, these positions are subject to market risk. our sell-side business may use the firm’s capital to facilitate customer transactions, primarily relating to our trading activities in listed options. the resulting principal positions are exposed to market risk. we seek to manage this risk both by engaging in transactions designed to hedge the market risk and by maintaining a risk platform that includes the measurement and monitoring of financial exposures and operational processes. our ability to manage this risk may be limited, however, by adverse changes in the liquidity of the security or the hedging instrument and in the correlation of price movements between the security and the hedging instrument. similarly, the risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques we employ and the related judgments we make cannot anticipate every possible economic and financial circumstance and outcome. consequently, we may incur losses, which would require us to increase our regulatory capital and could adversely affect our results of operations. our insurance policies may be insufficient to protect us against large losses. we can make no assurance that a claim or claims will be covered by our insurance policies or, if covered, will not exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, or that our insurers will remain solvent and meet their obligations. our business is subject to pervasive, complex and frequently evolving global regulation, the compliance with which could involve substantial expenditures of time and money, and the violation of which may result in material adverse consequences. virtually all aspects of our business are subject to federal and state laws and regulations, rules of securities regulators and exchanges, and laws and regulations in the foreign jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries conduct business. if we violate these laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil liability, criminal liability or sanction, including revocation of our and our subsidiaries’ registrations as investment advisers or broker-dealers, revocation of the licenses of our employees, censures, fines, or temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. any such liability or sanction could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and business prospects. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanction, could require substantial expenditures of time and money. these laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including, in some cases, the power to limit or restrict doing business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. moreover, regulators in non-u.s. jurisdictions could change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to market, distribute, or register investment products in their respective markets. these local requirements could increase the expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues from operating in the jurisdiction. in addition, there is uncertainty associated with the regulatory environments in which we operate, including uncertainty created by the enactment of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the “dodd-frank act”). the dodd-frank act fundamentally changed the u.s. financial regulatory landscape and may impose additional restrictions and limitations on our business as the various rules and regulations required for implementation continue to be adopted. changes to the rules governing rule 12b-1 fees may affect the revenues we derive from our retail services. in july 2010, the sec proposed a new rule and rule amendments that would alter rule 12b-1 fees. the new rule and amendments would continue to allow funds to bear promotional costs within certain limits and would also preserve the ability of funds to provide investors with alternatives for paying sales charges (e.g., at the time of purchase, at the time of redemption or through a continuing fee charged to fund assets). unlike the current rule 12b-1 framework, however, the proposed rules would limit the cumulative sales charges each investor pays, regardless of how they are imposed. if rules are adopted as proposed, changes in rule 12b-1 fees for a number of share classes offered by company-sponsored mutual funds would be required, which would reduce the net fund distribution revenues we receive from company-sponsored mutual funds. the impact of this rule change is dependent upon the final rules adopted by the sec, any phase-in or grandfathering period, and any other changes made with respect to share class distribution arrangements.   25 table of contents the financial services industry is intensely competitive. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including our array of investment services, our investment performance for our clients, innovation, reputation and price. by having a global presence, we may face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. furthermore, our continued poor investment performance during 2011, and what may be diminished confidence in our services on the part of clients and consultants, may make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. for additional information regarding competitive factors, see “competition” in item 1. we are involved in various legal proceedings and regulatory matters and may be involved in such proceedings in the future, any one or combination of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. we are involved in various matters, including regulatory inquiries, administrative proceedings and litigation, some of which allege substantial damages, and we may be involved in additional matters in the future. litigation is subject to significant uncertainties, particularly when plaintiffs allege substantial or indeterminate damages, or when the litigation is highly complex or broad in scope. structure-related risks the partnership structure of holding and alliancebernstein limits unitholders’ abilities to influence the management and operation of alliancebernstein’s business and is highly likely to prevent a change in control of holding and alliancebernstein. the general partner, as general partner of both holding and alliancebernstein, generally has the exclusive right and full authority and responsibility to manage, conduct, control and operate their respective businesses, except as otherwise expressly stated in their respective amended and restated agreements of limited partnership. holding and alliancebernstein unitholders have more limited voting rights on matters affecting alliancebernstein than do holders of common stock in a corporation. both amended and restated agreements of limited partnership provide that unitholders do not have any right to vote for directors of the general partner and that unitholders can only vote on certain extraordinary matters (including removal of the general partner under certain extraordinary circumstances). additionally, the alliancebernstein partnership agreement includes significant restrictions on transfers of alliancebernstein units and provisions that have the practical effect of preventing the removal of the general partner, which are highly likely to prevent a change in control of alliancebernstein’s management. alliancebernstein units are illiquid. there is no public trading market for alliancebernstein units and alliancebernstein does not anticipate that a public trading market will ever develop. the alliancebernstein partnership agreement restricts our ability to participate in a public trading market or anything substantially equivalent to one by providing that any transfer which may cause alliancebernstein to be classified as a “publicly traded partnership” as defined in section 7704 of the code shall be deemed void and shall not be recognized by alliancebernstein. in addition, alliancebernstein units are subject to significant restrictions on transfer; all transfers of alliancebernstein units are subject to the written consent of axa equitable and the general partner pursuant to the alliancebernstein partnership agreement. generally, neither axa equitable nor the general partner will permit any transfer that it believes would create a risk that alliancebernstein would be treated as a corporation for tax purposes. axa equitable and the general partner have implemented a transfer program that requires a seller to locate a purchaser, and imposes annual volume restrictions on transfers. you may request a copy of the transfer program from our corporate secretary (corporate_secretary@alliancebernstein.com). also, we have filed the transfer program as exhibit 10.08 to this form 10-k. changes in the partnership structure of holding and alliancebernstein and/or changes in the tax law governing partnerships would have significant tax ramifications. holding, having elected under section 7704(g) of the code to be subject to a 3.5% federal tax on partnership gross income from the active conduct of a trade or business, is a “grandfathered” publicly-traded partnership (“ptp”) for federal income tax purposes. holding is also subject to the 4.0% ubt, net of credits for ubt paid by alliancebernstein. in order to preserve holding’s status as a “grandfathered” publicly-traded partnership for federal income tax purposes, management ensures that holding does not directly or indirectly (through alliancebernstein) enter into a substantial new line of business. a “new line of business” includes any business that is not closely related to alliancebernstein’s historical business of providing research and diversified investment management and related services to its clients. a new line of business is “substantial” when a partnership derives more than 15% of its gross income from, or uses more than 15% of its total assets in, the new line of business. alliancebernstein is a private partnership for federal income tax purposes and, accordingly, is not subject to federal and state corporate income taxes. however, alliancebernstein is subject to the 4.0% ubt. domestic corporate subsidiaries of alliancebernstein, which are subject to federal, state and local income taxes, are generally included in the filing of a consolidated federal income tax return with separate state and local income tax returns being filed. foreign corporate subsidiaries are generally subject to taxes in the foreign jurisdiction where they are located. as our business increasingly operates in countries other than the u.s., alliancebernstein’s effective tax rate continues to increase because our international subsidiaries are subject to corporate level taxes in the jurisdictions where they are located.   26 table of contents in order to preserve alliancebernstein’s status as a private partnership for federal income tax purposes, alliancebernstein units must not be considered publicly traded. the alliancebernstein partnership agreement provides that all transfers of alliancebernstein units must be approved by axa equitable and the general partner; axa equitable and the general partner approve only those transfers permitted pursuant to one or more of the safe harbors contained in relevant treasury regulations. if such units were considered readily tradable, alliancebernstein would be subject to federal and state corporate income tax on its net income. furthermore, as noted above, should alliancebernstein enter into a substantial new line of business, holding, by virtue of its ownership of alliancebernstein, would lose its status as a grandfathered publicly-traded partnership and would become subject to corporate income tax as set forth above. in years prior to 2010, congress proposed tax legislation that would have caused certain ptps to be taxed as corporations, thus subjecting their income to a higher level of income tax. holding is a ptp that derives its income from investment management services through its ownership interest in alliancebernstein. the legislation, in the form proposed, would not have affected holding’s tax status. however, we cannot predict whether, or in what form, tax legislation will be proposed in future years, and are unable to determine what effect any new legislation might have on us. if holding were to lose its federal tax status as a grandfathered ptp, it would be subject to corporate income tax, which would reduce materially its net income and quarterly distributions to holding unitholders. the proposed legislation discussed above would not have affected alliancebernstein because it is a private partnership.   27 table of contents item 1b. unresolved