item 1a. risk factors before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the sec, including subsequent quarterly reports on forms 10-q and current reports on form 8-k. we operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. these known and unknown risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results or cash flows. we operate in a highly competitive business. the pharmaceutical and medical device industries are highly competitive. to be successful in these industries, we must be able to, among other things, effectively discover, develop, test and obtain regulatory approvals for products, effectively commercialize, market and promote approved products, including communicating the effectiveness, safety and value of products to actual and prospective customers and medical professionals. many of our competitors have greater resources than we have. this enables them, among other things, to make greater research and development investments and spread their research and development costs, as well as their marketing and promotion costs, over a broader revenue base. developments by our competitors, the entry of new competitors into the markets in which we compete, or consolidation in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries could make our products or technologies less competitive or obsolete. our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to develop and introduce products which are more effective than those developed by our competitors. sales of our existing products may decline rapidly if a new product is introduced that represents a substantial improvement over our existing products.   32 table of contents certain of our pharmaceutical products also compete with over-the-counter products which may be priced and regulated differently than our prescription products, and are subject to the evolving preferences of consumers. we also face competition from lower-cost generic drug and biological products. as discussed more fully below, such competition may increase in light of recent legislation providing a new regulatory pathway for the approval of lower-cost biosimilars. the patent rights that protect our products are of varying strength and duration, and the loss of patent protection is typically followed by generic substitutes. as a result, we may compete against generic products that are as safe and effective as our products, but sold at substantially lower prices. generic competition may significantly reduce the demand for our products with which any such generic products compete. adverse u.s. and international economic conditions may reduce consumer demand for our products, causing our sales and profitability to suffer. adverse conditions in the u.s. and international economies and financial markets may continue to negatively affect our revenues and operating results. many of our products, including refresh®, botox® cosmetic, juvéderm®, latisse®, to a large extent the natrelle® line of breast implants, and to a lesser extent the lap-band® system, have limited reimbursement or are not reimbursable by governmental or other health care plans and instead are partially or wholly paid for directly by the consumer. sales of the lap-band® system appear to be adversely affected by high levels of unemployment in the united states. adverse economic conditions impacting consumers, including among others, increased taxation, higher unemployment, lower consumer confidence in the economy, higher consumer debt levels, lower availability of consumer credit, higher interest rates and hardships relating to declines in the housing and stock markets, historically have caused consumers to reassess their spending choices and reduce their purchases of certain of our products. any failure to attain our projected revenues and operating results as a result of reduced consumer demand due to adverse economic or market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause our sales and profitability to suffer, reduce our operating cash flow and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. adverse economic and market conditions could also have a negative impact on our business by negatively affecting the parties with whom we do business, including among others, our business partners, creditors, third-party contractors and suppliers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. we could experience difficulties obtaining or creating the raw materials or components needed to produce our products and interruptions in the supply of raw materials or components could disrupt our manufacturing and cause our sales and profitability to decline. the loss of a material supplier or the interruption of our manufacturing processes could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell many of our products. we obtain the specialty chemicals that are the active pharmaceutical ingredients in certain of our products from single sources, who must maintain compliance with the fda’s cgmps. we also obtain aczone®, sanctura® and sanctura xr® under manufacturing agreements with sole source suppliers. if we experience difficulties acquiring sufficient quantities of these materials or products from our existing suppliers, or if our suppliers are found to be non-compliant with the cgmps, obtaining the required regulatory approvals, including from the fda or the european medical evaluation agency to use alternative suppliers may be a lengthy and uncertain process. a lengthy interruption of the supply of one or more of these materials could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply products, which could cause our sales and profitability to decline. in addition, the manufacturing process to create the raw material necessary to produce botox® is technically complex and requires significant lead-time. any failure by us to forecast demand for, or to maintain an adequate supply of, the raw material and finished product could result in an interruption in the supply of botox® and a resulting decrease in sales of the product. we also rely on a single supplier for silicone raw materials used in some of our products, including breast implants. although we have an agreement with this supplier to transfer the necessary formulations to us in the event that it cannot meet our requirements, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to produce or obtain a   33 table of contents sufficient amount of quality silicone raw materials in a timely manner. we depend on third party manufacturers for silicone molded components. these third party manufacturers must maintain compliance with the fda’s qsr, which sets forth the current good manufacturing practice standard for medical devices and requires manufacturers to follow design, testing and control documentation and air quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process. any material reduction in our raw material supply or a failure by our third party manufacturers to maintain compliance with the qsr could result in decreased sales of our products and a decrease in our revenues. additionally, certain of the manufacturing processes that we perform are only performed at one location worldwide. furthermore, as a result of the credit crisis and current economic conditions, and while we analyze the financial solvency of our key suppliers, we cannot guarantee that our key suppliers will remain solvent or that we will be able to obtain sufficient supplies of key materials, particularly as we often represent a small part of the overall output of these manufacturers. our future success depends upon our ability to develop new products, and new indications for existing products, that achieve regulatory approval for commercialization. for our business model to be successful, we must continually develop, test and manufacture new products or achieve new indications or label extensions for the use of our existing products. prior to marketing, these new products and product indications must satisfy stringent regulatory standards and receive requisite approvals or clearances from regulatory authorities in the united states and abroad. the development, regulatory review and approval, and commercialization processes are time consuming, costly and subject to numerous factors that may delay or prevent the development, approval or clearance, and commercialization of new products, including legal actions brought by our competitors. to obtain approval or clearance of new indications or products in the united states, we must submit, among other information, the results of preclinical and clinical studies on the new indication or product candidate to the fda. the number of preclinical and clinical studies that will be required for fda approval varies depending on the new indication or product candidate, the disease or condition for which the new indication or product candidate is in development and the regulations applicable to that new indication or product candidate. even if we believe that the data collected from clinical trials of new indications for our existing products or for our product candidates are promising, the fda may find such data to be insufficient to support approval of the new indication or product. the fda can delay, limit or deny approval or clearance of a new indication or product candidate for many reasons, including:     •   the fda may determine that the new indication or product candidate is not safe and effective;     •   the fda may interpret our preclinical and clinical data in different ways than we do;     •   the fda may not approve our manufacturing processes or facilities;     •   the fda may not approve our risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or rems, program;     •   the fda may require us to perform post-marketing clinical studies; or     •   the fda may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. products that we are currently developing, other future product candidates or new indications or label extensions for our existing products, may or may not receive the regulatory approvals or clearances necessary for marketing or may receive such approvals or clearances only after delays or unanticipated costs. further, the fda may require us to implement a rems program to manage known or potential serious risks associated with our pharmaceutical products to ensure that the benefits of our products outweigh their risks. a rems program can include patient package inserts, medication guides, communication plans, pharmacovigilance or adverse event monitoring, an implementation system and other elements necessary to assure safe use of our pharmaceutical product. if the fda determines that a rems program is necessary, the agency will not approve our product without an approved rems program, which could delay approval or impose additional requirements on our products. in addition, we may be subject to enforcement actions, including civil money penalties if we do not comply with rems program requirements. delays or unanticipated costs in any part of the process or our inability to obtain timely regulatory approval for our products, including those attributable to, among other   34 table of contents things, our failure to maintain manufacturing facilities in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, including the cgmps and qsr, could cause our operating results to suffer and our stock price to decrease. our facilities, our suppliers’ facilities and other third parties’ facilities on which we rely must pass pre-approval reviews and plant inspections and demonstrate compliance with the cgmps and qsr. further, even if we receive fda and other regulatory approvals for a new indication or product, the product may later exhibit adverse effects that limit or prevent its widespread use or that force us to withdraw the product from the market or to revise our labeling to limit the indications for which the product may be prescribed. in addition, even if we receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we cannot assure you that new products or indications will achieve market acceptance. our future performance will be affected by the market acceptance of, or continued market acceptance of, products such as acuvail®, aczone®, alphagan® p 0.15%, alphagan® p 0.1%, botox®, botox® cosmetic, combigan®, elestat®, ganfort™, juvéderm®, the lap-band® system, latisse®, lumigan® 0.03%, lumigan® 0.01%, optive™, ozurdex®, refresh®, relestat®, restasis®, sanctura xr®, tazorac®, and vistabel®, as well as the natrelle® line of breast implant products, new indications for botox®, and new products such as lastacaft™ and zymaxid®. we cannot assure you that our currently marketed products will not be subject to further regulatory review and action. in 2008, the fda announced in an “early communication” its review of certain adverse events following the use of botulinum toxins, including botox® and botox® cosmetic. in 2009, simultaneously with its approval of dysport™, the fda announced the completion of its review and has requested that we adopt a rems program equivalent to the rems program required for dysport™. in 2009, the fda approved our rems program for botox®, which addresses the risks related to botulinum toxin spread beyond the injection site and the lack of botulinum toxin interchangeability. in the second quarter of 2010, the fda requested that we submit an update to the botox® medication guide to include the chronic migraine indication, updated rems to include a physician training plan for chronic migraine, and a proposed physician communication, including a draft “dear healthcare practitioner” letter announcing the chronic migraine indication and providing information on the updated rems. in the fourth quarter of 2010, the fda approved botox® for the prophylactic treatment of headaches in adults with chronic migraine. we cannot assure you that any other compounds or products that we are developing for commercialization will be approved by the fda or foreign regulatory bodies for marketing or that we will be able to commercialize them on terms that will be profitable, or at all. if any of our products cannot be successfully or timely commercialized or our direct-to-consumer advertising materials fail to be approved by the fda, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. our product development efforts may not result in commercial products. we intend to continue an aggressive research and development program. successful product development in the pharmaceutical and medical device industry is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as:     •   the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results;     •   the product candidate was not effective in treating a specified condition or illness;     •   the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or animals;     •   the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the fda, did not approve the product candidate for an intended use;     •   the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize;     •   other companies or people have or may have proprietary rights to the product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not sell or license these rights to us on reasonable terms, or at all;   35 table of contents   •   the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics or alternative devices; and     •   certain of our licensors or partners may fail to effectively conduct clinical development or clinical manufacturing activities. several of our product candidates have failed or been discontinued at various stages in the product development process. of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product. we cannot guarantee we will be able to produce commercially successful products. further, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians and others, which may delay, limit or prevent further clinical development or regulatory approvals of a product candidate. also, the length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for product marketing has in the past varied by product and by the intended use of a product. we expect that this will likely be the case with future product candidates and we cannot predict the length of time to complete necessary clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. if we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate protection for our intellectual property rights associated with the technologies incorporated into our products, our business and results of operations could suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents or rights to patents, protect trade secrets and other proprietary technologies and processes, and prevent others from infringing on our patents, trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property rights. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, we can lose a significant portion of sales of that product in a very short period of time as other companies manufacture generic forms of our previously protected product or manufacture similar products or devices at lower cost, without having had to incur significant research and development costs in formulating the product or designing the device. therefore, our future financial success may depend in part on obtaining patent protection for technologies incorporated into our products. we cannot assure you that such patents will be issued, or that any existing or future patents will be of commercial benefit. in addition, it is impossible to anticipate the breadth or degree of protection that any such patents will afford, and we cannot assure you that any such patents will not be successfully challenged in the future. if we are unsuccessful in obtaining or preserving patent protection, or if any of our products rely on unpatented proprietary technology, we cannot assure you that others will not commercialize products substantially identical to those products. generic drug manufacturers are currently challenging the patents covering certain of our products, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. challenges may result in potentially significant harm to our business. the cost of responding to these challenges and the inherent costs to defend the validity of our patents, including the prosecution of infringements and the related litigation, could be substantial and can preclude or delay commercialization of products. such litigation also could require a substantial commitment of our management’s time. for certain of our product candidates, third parties may have patents or pending patents that they claim prevent us from commercializing certain product candidates in certain territories. our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. see “patents, trademarks and licenses” in item 1 of part i of this report, “business” and item 3 of part i of this report, “legal proceedings” for information concerning our current intellectual property and related litigation. we also believe that the protection of our trademarks and service marks is an important factor in product recognition and in our ability to maintain or increase market share. if we do not adequately protect our rights in our various trademarks and service marks from infringement, their value to us could be lost or diminished, seriously impairing our competitive position. moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. in addition to intellectual property   36 table of contents protections afforded to trademarks, service marks and proprietary know-how by the various countries in which our proprietary products are sold, we seek to protect our trademarks, service marks and proprietary know-how through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements with third parties, including our partners, customers, employees and consultants. these agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for violation of our rights in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. it is possible that these agreements will be breached or that they will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. it is also possible that our trade secrets will become known or independently developed by our competitors. we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and losses or prevent us from selling our products. we cannot assure you that our products will not infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. in the event we discover that we may be infringing third party patents or other intellectual property rights, we may not be able to obtain licenses from those third parties on commercially attractive terms or at all. we may have to defend, and have defended, against charges that we violated patents or the proprietary rights of third parties. litigation is costly and time-consuming, and diverts the attention of our management and technical personnel. in addition, if we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or sell products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, which could harm our business, financial condition, prospects, results of operations and cash flows. see item 3 of part i of this report, “legal proceedings” and note 13, “legal proceedings,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements listed under item 15 of part iv of this report, “exhibits and financial statement schedules,” for information concerning our current intellectual property litigation. importation of products from canada and other countries into the united states may lower the prices we receive for our products. in the united states, some of our pharmaceutical and medical device products are subject to competition from lower priced versions of those products and competing products from canada, mexico and other countries where government price controls or other market dynamics result in lower prices. our products that require a prescription in the united states are often available to consumers in these other markets without a prescription, which may cause consumers to further seek out our products in these lower priced markets. the ability of patients and other customers to obtain these lower priced imports has grown significantly as a result of the internet, an expansion of pharmacies in canada and elsewhere targeted to american purchasers, the increase in u.s.-based businesses affiliated with canadian pharmacies marketing to american purchasers and other factors. these foreign imports are illegal under current u.s. law, with the sole exception of limited quantities of prescription drugs imported for personal use. however, the volume of imports continues to rise due to the limited enforcement resources of the fda and the u.s. customs and border protection, and there is increased political pressure to permit the imports as a mechanism for expanding access to lower priced medicines. in december 2003, congress enacted the medicare prescription drug, improvement, and modernization act of 2003, or mma. the mma contains provisions that may change u.s. import laws and expand consumers’ ability to import lower priced versions of our products and competing products from canada, where there are government price controls. these changes to u.s. import laws will not take effect unless and until the secretary of health and human services certifies that the changes will lead to substantial savings for consumers and will not create a public health safety issue. the secretary of health and human services has not made such a certification. however, it is possible that the current secretary or a subsequent secretary could make such a certification in the future. as directed by congress, a task force on drug importation conducted a comprehensive study regarding the circumstances under which drug importation could be safely conducted and the consequences of importation on the health, medical costs and development of new medicines for u.s. consumers. the task   37 table of contents force issued its report in december 2004, finding that there are significant safety and economic issues that must be addressed before importation of prescription drugs is permitted. in addition, federal legislative proposals have been made to implement the changes to the u.s. import laws without any certification, and to broaden permissible imports in other ways. for example, versions of the house and senate bills introduced in 2009 to reform the health care industry in the united states included provisions that would have allowed the importation of pharmaceuticals from canada and other countries. although the provisions were not included in the final legislation passed by each chamber, we believe there will likely be future efforts to reintroduce similar proposals. even if such changes to the u.s. import laws are not enacted, imports from canada and elsewhere may continue to increase due to market and political forces, and the limited enforcement resources of the fda, the u.s. customs and border protection and other government agencies. for example, public law number 111-83, which was signed into law in october 2009 and provided appropriations for the department of homeland security for the 2010 fiscal year, expressly prohibits the u.s. customs and border protection from using funds to prevent individuals from importing from canada less than a 90-day supply of a prescription drug for personal use, when the drug otherwise complies with the ffdca. in addition, certain state and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, other states and local governments may also launch importation efforts. the importation of foreign products adversely affects our profitability in the united states. this impact could become more significant in the future, and the impact could be even greater if there is a further change in the law or if state or local governments take further steps to import products from abroad. our ownership of real property and the operation of our business will continue to expose us to risks of environmental liabilities. under various u.s. federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or the businesses that may be operated, and these restrictions may require expenditures. environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. in connection with the acquisition and ownership of our properties, we may be potentially liable for such costs. the cost of defending against claims of liability, complying with environmental regulatory requirements or remediating any contaminated property could have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. any costs or expenses relating to environmental matters may not be covered by insurance. our product development programs and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and toxic compounds. these programs and processes expose us to risks that an accidental contamination could lead to noncompliance with environmental laws, regulatory enforcement actions and claims for personal injury and property damage. if an accident or environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. the substantial unexpected costs we may incur could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. a disruption at certain of our manufacturing sites would significantly interrupt our production capabilities, which could result in significant product delays and adversely affect our results. certain of our products are produced at single manufacturing facilities, including restasis®, our breast implant products, our obesity intervention products and our dermal filler products. in addition, we manufacture botox® at two structurally separate facilities located adjacent to one another at a single site. we face risks inherent in manufacturing our products at a single facility or at a single site. these risks include the possibility that our manufacturing processes could be partially or completely disrupted by a fire, natural disaster, terrorist   38 table of contents attack, foreign governmental action or military action. in the case of a disruption, we may need to establish alternative manufacturing sources for these products. this would likely lead to substantial production delays as we build or locate replacement facilities and seek and obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. if this occurs, and our finished goods inventories are insufficient to meet demand, we may be unable to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis, if at all. further, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur and we would have to bear the additional cost of any disruption. for these reasons, a significant disruptive event at certain of our manufacturing facilities or sites could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may experience losses due to product liability claims, product recalls or corrections. the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability or other claims by consumers and other third parties. we have in the past been, and continue to be, subject to various product liability claims and lawsuits. in addition, we have in the past and may in the future recall or issue field corrections related to our products due to manufacturing deficiencies, labeling errors or other safety or regulatory reasons. we cannot assure you that we will not in the future experience material losses due to product liability claims, lawsuits, product recalls or corrections. as part of the inamed acquisition, we assumed inamed’s product liability risks, including any product liability for its past and present manufacturing of breast implant products. the manufacture and sale of breast implant products has been and continues to be the subject of a significant number of product liability claims due to allegations that the medical devices cause disease or result in complications, rare lymphomas and other health conditions due to rupture, deflation or other product failure. historically, other breast implant manufacturers that suffered such claims in the 1990’s were forced to cease operations or even to declare bankruptcy. additionally, recent fda marketing approval for our silicone breast implants requires that:     •   we monitor patients in our core study out to 10 years even if there has been explantation of the core device without replacement;     •   patients in the core study receive magnetic resonance imaging tests, or mris, at seven and nine years;     •   we conduct a large, 10-year post-approval study;     •   we monitor patients in our adjunct study through the patients’ 5-year evaluation; and     •   we conduct additional smaller evaluations, including a focus group aimed at ensuring patients are adequately informed about the risks of our silicone breast implants and that the format and content of patient labeling is adequate. we are seeking marketing approval for other silicone breast implants in the united states, and if we obtain this approval, it may similarly be subject to significant restrictions and requirements, including the need for a patient registry, follow up mris and substantial post-market clinical trial commitments. we also face a substantial risk of product liability claims from our eye care, neuromodulator, urology, skin care, obesity intervention and facial aesthetics products. additionally, our pharmaceutical and medical device products may cause, or may appear to cause, serious adverse side effects or potentially dangerous drug interactions if misused, improperly prescribed, improperly implanted or based on faulty surgical technique. we are subject to adverse event reporting regulations that require us to report to the fda or similar bodies in other countries if our products are associated with a death or serious injury. these adverse events, among others, could result in additional regulatory controls, such as the performance of costly post-approval clinical studies or revisions to our approved labeling, which could limit the indications or patient population for our products or could even lead to the withdrawal of a product from the market. furthermore, any adverse publicity associated with such an event could cause consumers to seek alternatives to our products, which may cause our sales to decline, even if our products are ultimately determined not to have been the primary cause of the event.   39 table of contents negative publicity concerning the safety of our products may harm our sales, force us to withdraw products and cause a decline in our stock price. physicians and potential and existing patients may have a number of concerns about the safety of our products, including botox®, breast implants, eye care pharmaceuticals, urologics products, skin care products, obesity intervention products and facial dermal fillers, whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research. these concerns may be increased by negative publicity, even if the publicity is inaccurate. for example, consumer groups and certain plaintiffs have alleged that certain uses of botox®, including off-label uses, have caused patient injuries and death and have further alleged that we failed to adequately warn patients of the risks relating to botox® use. in addition, recent reports have suggested a possible association between anaplastic large cell lymphoma, or alcl, and breast implants. in january 2011, the fda released preliminary findings and analysis regarding recent reports in the scientific community that have suggested a possible association between saline and silicone gel-filled breast implants and anaplastic large cell lymphoma, or alcl, a very rare form of cancer. the fda believes that, based on its review of limited scientific data, women with breast implants may have a very small but increased risk of developing alcl in the scar capsule adjacent to the implant. negative publicity — whether accurate or inaccurate — about the efficacy, safety or side effects of our products or product categories, whether involving us or a competitor, or new government regulations, could materially reduce market acceptance of our products, cause consumers to seek alternatives to our products, result in product withdrawals and cause our stock price to decline. negative publicity could also result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims have a basis in scientific fact. health care initiatives and other third-party payor cost-containment pressures could impose financial burdens or cause us to sell our products at lower prices, resulting in decreased revenues. some of our products are purchased or reimbursed by federal and state government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations, or hmos, and managed care organizations, or mcos. third-party payors increasingly challenge pharmaceutical and other medical device product pricing. there also continues to be a trend toward managed health care in the united states. pricing pressures by third-party payors and the growth of organizations such as hmos and mcos could result in lower prices and a reduction in demand for our products. in addition, legislative and regulatory proposals and enactments to reform health care and government insurance programs could significantly influence the manner in which pharmaceutical products, biologic products and medical devices are prescribed and purchased. in march 2010, the president of the united states signed the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act, collectively, the ppaca, which substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, subjects biologic products to potential competition by lower-cost biosimilars, and significantly impacts the u.s. pharmaceutical and medical device industries. among other things, the ppaca:     •   establishes a licensure framework for biosimilar products;     •   establishes a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research;     •   increases minimum medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the medicaid drug rebate program, retroactive to january 1, 2010, to 23.1 percent and 13 percent of the average manufacturer price, or amp, for branded and generic drugs, respectively;     •   expands manufacturers’ rebate responsibilities for outpatient drugs by extending the 340b program to additional providers including certain children’s hospitals, free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, effective january 2010;   40 table of contents   •   extends manufacturers’ medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in medicaid managed care organizations, effective march 23, 2010;     •   expands eligibility criteria for medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer medicaid coverage to additional individuals beginning april 2010 and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133 percent of the federal poverty level beginning 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ medicaid rebate liability;     •   redefines a number of terms used to determine medicaid drug rebate liability, including average manufacturer price and retail community pharmacy, effective october 2010;     •   requires manufacturers to participate in a coverage gap discount program, under which they must agree to offer 50 percent point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under medicare part d, beginning january 2011;     •   establishes annual, non-deductible fees on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologics, beginning january 2011; and     •   establishes a deductible excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports certain medical devices offered for sale in the united states, beginning 2013. the ppaca provisions on comparative clinical effectiveness research extend the initiatives of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, also known as the stimulus package, which included $1.1 billion in funding to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. this stimulus funding was designated for, among other things, conducting, supporting or synthesizing research that compares and evaluates the risks and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products. the ppaca also appropriates additional funding to comparative clinical effectiveness research. although congress has indicated that this funding is intended to improve the quality of health care, it remains unclear how the research will impact current medicare coverage and reimbursement or how new information will influence other third-party payor policies. we expect that the ppaca, as well as other health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and our ability to successfully commercialize our products or could limit or eliminate our spending on certain development projects. title vii of the ppaca, the biologics price competition and innovation act of 2009, or bpcia, creates a new licensure framework for biosimilar products, which could ultimately subject our biologic products, including botox®, to competition. under the bpcia, a manufacturer may submit an application for licensure of a biologic product that is “biosimilar to” or “interchangeable with” a referenced, branded biologic product. previously, there had been no licensure pathway for such a follow-on product. while we do not anticipate that the fda will license a biosimilar of botox® for several years, given the need to generate data sufficient to demonstrate “biosimilarity” to or “interchangeability” with the branded biologic according to the criteria set forth in the bpcia, as well as the need for the fda to implement the bpcia’s provisions with respect to particular classes of biologic products, we note that the fda held a public meeting in november, 2010 to seek stakeholder input on the subject and has the authority to approve biosimilar products whether or not the agency first publishes guidance or promulgates regulations for biosimilar applicants. we cannot guarantee that our biologic products such as botox® will not eventually become subject to direct competition by a licensed biosimilar. other legislative and regulatory reform measures, including the medicare prescription drug, improvement, and modernization act of 2003, or mma, the deficit reduction act of 2005, or dra, and the hospital outpatient prospective payment system, or hopps, continue to significantly influence how our products are priced and reimbursed. for example, effective january 1, 2006, the mma established a new medicare outpatient prescription drug benefit under part d. further, among other things, the dra required states to collect drug utilization data for single source drugs and certain multiple source drugs administered by physicians as a   41 table of contents condition of federal financial participation to be available for the drugs, and required the centers for medicare & medicaid services, or cms, the federal agency that both administers the medicare program and administers and oversees the medicaid drug rebate program, to amend certain formulas used to calculate pharmacy reimbursement and rebates under medicaid and to publish final regulations. in july 2007, cms issued a final rule that, among other things, clarifies and changes how drug manufacturers must calculate and report key pricing data under the medicaid drug rebate program. this data is used by cms and state medicaid agencies to calculate rebates owed by manufacturers under the medicaid drug rebate program and to calculate the federal upper limits on cost-sharing for certain prescription drugs. in december 2007, following a judicial challenge brought by a national association of pharmacies, a federal judge ordered an injunction that prevents cms from implementing portions of its july 2007 final rule, as they affect medicaid payments to pharmacies and the sharing by cms of certain drug pricing data. in addition, the medicare improvements for patients and providers act of 2008, or mippa, which was passed in july 2008, delayed the implementation dates of these portions of the july 2007 medicaid final rule. the mippa prohibited the computation of medicaid payments based on amp and the public availability of amp data through september 2009. the ppaca made certain changes that directly affect the provisions that were enjoined. under the ppaca, key terms used for calculating manufacturer rebates and medicaid payments for drugs, including amp, have been redefined. the ppaca also made certain changes to establish adequate pharmacy reimbursement and limited the amp information that may be publicly disclosed to weighted averages of multiple source drugs. these changes went into effect on october 1, 2010. at this time, uncertainties remain as to how the ppaca will be fully implemented and the extent to which such implementation could lead to reduced payments to pharmacies and others dispensing prescriptions for certain pharmaceutical products. these and other cost containment measures and health care reforms could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. furthermore, effective january 1, 2008, cms reduced medicare reimbursement for most separately payable physician-administered drugs under the hospital outpatient prospective payment system from an average sales price plus six percent to plus five percent. an additional reduction to average sales price plus four percent went into effect january 1, 2009, which continued for 2010. for calendar year 2011, cms increased medicare reimbursement to average sales price plus five percent, but further reductions may be imposed in the future. other recent federal regulatory changes include a final rule issued by the u.s. department of defense, or dod, placing pricing limits on certain branded pharmaceutical products. under the rule, effective may 26, 2009, payments made to retail pharmacies under the tricare retail pharmacy program for prescriptions filled on or after january 28, 2008 are subject to certain price ceilings utilized by other dod programs. pursuant to the final rule and as a condition for placement on the uniform formulary, manufacturers are required, among other things, to modify their existing contracts with the dod and to make refunds for prescriptions filled beginning on january 28, 2008 and extending to future periods based on the newly applicable price limits. the refunds required by the rule exempt certain prescriptions covered by manufacturer requests for a waiver. on october 15, 2010, the dod issued a final rule, effective december 27, 2010, pursuant to which the dod collects refunds as the means to subject prescriptions to the price ceilings and can take action against a manufacturer for failure to honor a requirement of the regulation or an agreement under the regulation. the new rule no longer penalizes manufacturers for failure to make an agreement with the dod, because manufacturers may voluntarily elect not to participate in the tricare pharmacy benefits program for any particular drug. further, on october 26, 2010, the u.s. government accountability office issued a report concluding that the dod complied with the applicable procedural requirements in implementing the final rule. the issue of dod’s statutory authority to impose retroactive and prospective liability through refunds is on appeal. in addition, individual states have also become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access, and to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. legally-mandated price controls on payment amounts by third-party payors or other restrictions could negatively and materially impact our revenues and financial condition.   42 table of contents we expect there will continue to be federal and state laws and/or regulations, proposed and implemented, that could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for health care products and services. the extent to which future legislation or regulations, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business remains uncertain. furthermore, regional health care authorities and individual hospitals are increasingly using bidding procedures to determine what pharmaceutical and medical device products and which suppliers will be included in their prescription drug and other health care programs. this can reduce demand for our products or put pressure on our product pricing, which could negatively affect our revenues and profitability. our ability to sell our products to hospitals in the united states also depends in part on our relationships with group purchasing organizations, or gpos. many existing and potential customers for our products become members of gpos. gpos negotiate pricing arrangements and contracts, sometimes on an exclusive basis, with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a gpo’s affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a gpo, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and if the gpo has negotiated a strict sole source, market share compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the gpo for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to renew contracts with gpos may cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these contracts at the current or substantially similar terms. if we are unable to keep our relationships and develop new relationships with gpos, our competitive position would likely suffer. we encounter similar legislative, regulatory and pricing issues in most countries outside the united states. international operations are generally subject to extensive governmental price controls and other market regulations, and we believe the increasing emphasis on cost-containment initiatives in europe and other countries has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our pharmaceutical and medical device products. although we cannot predict the extent to which our business may be affected by future cost-containment measures or other potential legislative or regulatory developments, additional foreign price controls or other changes in pricing regulation could restrict the amount that we are able to charge for our current and future products, which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rates, which could increase our costs and may cause our profitability to decline. we collect and pay a substantial portion of our sales and expenditures in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. therefore, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results. we cannot assure you that future exchange rate movements, inflation or other related factors will not have a material adverse effect on our sales or operating expenses. we are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. these risks include, among other things:     •   adverse changes in tariff and trade protection measures;     •   reductions in the reimbursement amounts we receive for our products from foreign governments and foreign insurance providers;     •   unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, including quality standards and other certification requirements;   43 table of contents   •   potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;     •   differing labor regulations;     •   changing economic conditions in countries where our products are sold or manufactured or in other countries;     •   differing local product preferences and product requirements;     •   exchange rate risks;     •   restrictions on the repatriation of funds;     •   political unrest and hostilities;     •   product liability, intellectual property and other claims;     •   differing quality control standards and assays;     •   new export license requirements;     •   differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; and     •   difficulties in coordinating and managing foreign operations, including ensuring that foreign operations comply with foreign laws as well as u.s. laws applicable to u.s. companies with foreign operations, such as export laws and the foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa. any of these factors, or any other international factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that we can successfully manage these risks or avoid their effects. the consolidation of drug wholesalers and other wholesaler actions could increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. we sell our pharmaceutical products primarily through wholesalers. these wholesale customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the united states. this distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation. as a result, a smaller number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market. we expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. in addition, wholesalers may apply pricing pressure through fee-for-service arrangements, and their purchases may exceed customer demand, resulting in reduced wholesaler purchases in later quarters. we cannot assure you that we can manage these pressures or that wholesaler purchases will not decrease as a result of this potential excess buying. our failure to attract and retain key managerial, technical, scientific, selling and marketing personnel could adversely affect our business. our success depends upon our retention of key managerial, technical, scientific, selling and marketing personnel. the loss of the services of key personnel might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. we must continue to attract, train and retain managerial, technical, scientific, selling and marketing personnel. competition for such highly skilled employees in our industry is high, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in recruiting or retaining such personnel. we also believe that our success depends to a significant extent on the ability of our key personnel to operate effectively, both individually and as a group. if we are unable to identify, hire and integrate new employees in a timely and cost-effective manner, our operating results may suffer.   44 table of contents acquisitions of technologies, products, and businesses could disrupt our business, involve increased expenses and present risks not contemplated at the time of the transactions. as part of our business strategy, we regularly consider and, as appropriate, make acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses that we believe are complementary to our business. acquisitions typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel, technologies and products acquired, some of which may result in significant charges to earnings. issues that must be addressed in integrating the acquired technologies, products and businesses into our own include:     •   conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures;     •   conforming information technology and accounting systems;     •   consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures;     •   consolidating sales and marketing operations;     •   retaining existing customers and attracting new customers;     •   retaining key employees;     •   identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets;     •   minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns;     •   coordinating geographically dispersed organizations;     •   managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating operations; and     •   making any necessary modifications to operating control standards to comply with the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. if we are unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions with our existing business, we may not obtain the advantages that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, our ability to develop and introduce new products and the market price of our stock. actual costs and sales synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than we expect and may take longer to achieve than we anticipate. in connection with acquisitions, we could experience disruption in our business or employee base, or key employees of companies that we acquire may seek employment elsewhere, including with our competitors. furthermore, the products of companies we acquire may overlap with our products or those of our customers, creating conflicts with existing relationships or with other commitments that are detrimental to the integrated businesses. compliance with the extensive government regulations to which we are subject is expensive and time consuming, and may result in the delay or cancellation of product sales, introductions or modifications. extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our business, especially our product development and manufacturing capabilities. all companies that manufacture, market and distribute pharmaceuticals and medical devices, including us, are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by federal governmental authorities, principally by the fda and the u.s. drug enforcement administration, or dea, and similar foreign and state government agencies. failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the fda, dea and other comparable u.s. and foreign regulatory agencies may subject a company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including, among others, a refusal to approve a pending application to market a new product or a new indication for an existing product. the ffdca, the controlled substances act and other domestic and foreign statutes and regulations govern or influence the research, testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, effectiveness, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products.   45 table of contents under certain of these regulations, we are subject to periodic inspection of our facilities, production processes and control operations and/or the testing of our products by the fda, the dea and other authorities, to confirm that we are in compliance with all applicable regulations, including the fda’s cgmps, with respect to drug and biologic products, and the fda’s qsr, with respect to medical device products. the fda conducts pre-approval and post-approval reviews and plant inspections of us and our direct and indirect suppliers to determine whether our record keeping, production processes and controls, personnel and quality control are in compliance with the cgmps, the qsr and other fda regulations. we are also required to perform extensive audits of our vendors, contract laboratories and suppliers to ensure that they are compliant with these requirements. in addition, in order to commercialize our products or new indications for an existing product, we must demonstrate that the product or new indication is safe and effective, and that our and our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities are compliant with applicable regulations, to the satisfaction of the fda and other regulatory agencies. the process for obtaining governmental approval to manufacture and to commercialize pharmaceutical and medical device products is rigorous, costly and typically takes many years, and we cannot predict the extent to which we may be affected by intervening legislative and regulatory developments. we are dependent on receiving fda and other governmental approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and distributing our products. we may fail to obtain approval from the fda or other governmental authorities for our product candidates, or we may experience delays in obtaining such approvals, due to varying interpretations of data or our failure to satisfy rigorous efficacy, safety and manufacturing quality standards. consequently, there is always a risk that the fda or other applicable governmental authorities will not approve our products, or will take post-approval action limiting or revoking our ability to sell our products, or that the rate, timing and cost of such approvals will adversely affect our product introduction plans, results of operations and stock price. despite the time and expense exerted, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. even after we obtain regulatory approval or clearance for a product candidate or new indication, we are subject to extensive additional regulation, including implementation of rems programs, completion of post-marketing clinical studies mandated by the fda, and compliance with regulations relating to labeling, advertising, marketing and promotion, as well as regulations governing manufacturing controls noted above. in addition, we are subject to adverse event reporting regulations that require us to report to the fda if our products are associated with a death or serious injury. if we or any third party that we involve in the testing, packaging, manufacture, labeling, marketing and distribution of our products fail to comply with any such regulations, we may be subject to, among other things, warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines or other civil penalties, injunctions, suspension or revocation of approvals, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecution. in the past few years, the fda has increased its enforcement activities related to the advertising and promotion of pharmaceutical, biological and medical device products. in particular, the fda has expressed concern regarding the pharmaceutical and medical device industry’s compliance with the agency’s regulations and guidance governing direct-to-consumer advertising, and has increased its scrutiny of such promotional materials. the fda may limit or, with respect to certain products, terminate our dissemination of direct-to-consumer advertisements in the future, which could cause sales of those products to decline. physicians may prescribe pharmaceutical and biologic products, and utilize medical device products for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling or differ from those tested by us and approved or cleared by the fda. while such off-label uses are common and the fda does not regulate a physician’s practice of medicine, the fda takes the position that a manufacturer’s communications regarding an approved product’s off-label uses are restricted by federal statutes, fda regulations and other governmental communications. for example, the fda issued final guidelines on january 13, 2009 setting forth “good reprint practices” for drug and medical device manufacturers, which provide detailed requirements drug and device companies must follow when disseminating journal articles and referencing publications describing off-label uses of their approved products to health care professionals and entities. the standards associated with such laws and rules are complex, not well defined or articulated and are subject to conflicting interpretations. if, in the view of the fda or other governmental agency, our promotional activities fail to comply with applicable laws, regulations, guidelines or interpretations, we may be subject to enforcement actions by the fda or other governmental enforcement authorities.   46 table of contents from time to time, legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced that could alter the review and approval process relating to our products. for example, in response to industry and healthcare provider concerns regarding the predictability, consistency and rigor of the 510(k) regulatory pathway, the fda initiated an evaluation of the program, and on january 19, 2011, announced 25 actions that the fda intends to implement during 2011 to reform the review process governing the clearance of medical devices. among these actions, the fda plans to issue multiple guidance to industry clarifying submission requirements. it is possible that the fda or other governmental authorities will issue additional regulations further restricting the sale of our present or proposed products. any change in legislation or regulations that govern the review and approval process relating to our current and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain approval for new products, or to produce, market and distribute existing products. compliance with the requirements of domestic and international laws and regulations pertaining to the privacy and security of health information may be time consuming, difficult and costly, and if we are unable to or fail to comply, our business may be adversely affected. we are subject to various domestic and international privacy and security regulations, including but not limited to the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act of 2009, or hipaa. hipaa mandates, among other things, the adoption of uniform standards for the electronic exchange of information in common health care transactions (e.g., health care claims information and plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment, coordination of benefits and related information), as well as standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, which require the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. in addition, many states have enacted comparable laws addressing the privacy and security of health information, some of which are more stringent than hipaa. failure to comply with these laws can result in the imposition of significant civil and criminal penalties. the costs of compliance with these laws and potential liability associated with failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we market products in a manner that violates health care fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. the federal health care program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under medicare, medicaid or other federally financed health care programs. this statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical or medical device manufacturers, on the one hand, and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers, on the other hand. further, the ppaca, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, the ppaca provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration could be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. the ppaca also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device and drug manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective march 30, 2013. such information will be made publicly available in a searchable format beginning september 30, 2013. in addition, device and drug manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for “knowing failures”), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or   47 table of contents investment interests not reported in an annual submission. finally, under the ppaca, effective april 1, 2012, pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors must provide the u.s. department of health and human services with an annual report on the drug samples they provide to physicians. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid drug rebate program. the hipaa created two new federal crimes: health care fraud and false statements relating to health care matters. the health care fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payors. the false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to these federal laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. in addition, some states have laws that require pharmaceutical companies to adopt comprehensive compliance programs. for example, under california law, pharmaceutical companies must adopt a comprehensive compliance program that is in accordance with both the april 2003 office of inspector general compliance program guidance for pharmaceutical manufacturers, or oig guidance, and the pharmaceutical research and manufacturers of america code on interactions with healthcare professionals, or the phrma code, as updated in july 2008 and effective in january 2009. the phrma code seeks to promote transparency in relationships between health care professionals and the pharmaceutical industry and to ensure that pharmaceutical marketing activities comport with the highest ethical standards. the most recent revisions to the phrma code, effective january 2009, restrict or prohibit many activities previously permissible under the prior phrma code, including: a prohibition on any entertainment or recreational events for non-employee health care professionals including strict limitations on meals with physicians; the elimination of non-educational business gifts; restrictions on speaker programs; and clarifications on continuing medical education funding. the updated phrma code also requires that pharmaceutical companies train their representatives on all applicable laws, regulations and industry codes governing interactions with health care professionals. in addition, the advanced medical technology association’s revised code of ethics, or the advamed code, also seeks to ensure that medical device companies and health care professionals have collaborative relationships that meet high ethical standards; medical decisions are based on the best interests of patients; and medical device companies and health care professionals comply with applicable laws, regulations and government guidance. the advamed code was updated in december 2008 and became effective in july 2009. the revisions generally follow the 2008 changes in the phrma code and include limitations on consulting arrangements, entertainment, and meals and gifts, among others. we have adopted and implemented a compliance program which we believe satisfies the requirements of these laws, regulations and industry codes. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, mandatory compliance programs, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. for example, we and several other pharmaceutical companies are currently subject to suits by governmental entities in several jurisdictions, including erie, oswego and schenectady counties in new york and in alabama alleging that we and these other companies, through promotional, discounting and pricing practices, reported false and inflated average wholesale prices or wholesale acquisition costs and failed to report best prices as required by   48 table of contents federal and state rebate statutes, resulting in the plaintiffs overpaying for certain medications. if our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations to which we are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. we remain subject to government investigations and related subpoenas. such subpoenas are often associated with previously filed qui tam actions, or lawsuits filed under seal under the false claims act, or fca, 31 u.s.c. § 3729 et seq. qui tam actions are brought by private plaintiffs suing on behalf of the federal government for alleged fca violations. the time and expense associated with responding to such subpoenas, and any related qui tam or other actions, may be extensive, and we cannot predict the results of our review of the responsive documents and underlying facts or the results of such actions. the costs of responding to government investigations, defending any claims raised, and any resulting fines, restitution, damages and penalties (including under the fca), settlement payments or administrative actions, as well as any related actions brought by stockholders or other third parties, could have a material impact on our reputation, business and financial condition and divert the attention of our management from operating our business. in september 2009, we received service of process of an investigative demand from the department of justice for the state of oregon requesting the production of documents relating to our sales and marketing practices in connection with aczone®. in december 2009, we produced documents in response to the investigative demand. in june 2010, we received service of process of a subpoena from the u.s. securities and exchange commission. the subpoena requests the production of documents relating to our affiliation with acadia pharmaceuticals, inc., or acadia, and our sale of acadia securities. in september 2010, we produced documents responsive to the subpoena. in january 2011, the sec issued additional subpoenas seeking further information, which was provided in february 2011. in december 2010, we received service of process of a subpoena duces tecum from the state of new york, office of the medicaid inspector general. the subpoena requests the production of documents relating to our eye care business advisor group, allergan access, and bsm connect for ophthalmology. in february 2011, we received service of a civil investigative demand from the united states attorney’s office for the southern district of new york, civil frauds unit. the investigative demand requests the production of documents and responses to written interrogatories relating to our best prices provided to medicaid for certain of our ophthalmic products. in march 2008, we received service of a subpoena duces tecum from the u.s. attorney, u.s. department of justice, or doj, for the northern district of georgia requesting the production of documents relating to our sales and marketing practices in connection with certain therapeutic uses of botox®. in september 2010, we announced that we reached a resolution with the doj, or the doj settlement, regarding our alleged sales and marketing practices in connection with certain therapeutic uses of botox®. as part of the doj settlement, we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services. failure to comply with the terms of the corporate integrity agreement could result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and being excluded from government health care programs, which could materially reduce our sales and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. we are subject to the fcpa, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making payments to non-u.s. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing any other improper advantage. we are also subject to anti-bribery laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and our agents comply with the fcpa and other anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the fcpa or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries with   49 table of contents respect to our business or any businesses that we acquire. we do business in a number of countries in which fcpa violations have recently been enforced. failure to comply with the fcpa, other anti-bribery laws or other laws governing the conduct of business with foreign government entities, including local laws, could disrupt our business and lead to severe criminal and civil penalties, including imprisonment, criminal and civil fines, loss of our export licenses, suspension of our ability to do business with the federal government, denial of government reimbursement for our products and exclusion from participation in government health care programs. other remedial measures could include further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies, and controls and potential personnel changes and/or disciplinary actions, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we could also be adversely affected by any allegation that we violated such laws. if our collaborative partners do not perform, we will be unable to develop and market products as anticipated. we have entered into collaborative arrangements with third parties to develop and market certain products, including our collaboration with map pharmaceuticals, inc to develop and commercialize levadex™ in the united states, our strategic development and license agreement with serenity pharmaceuticals, llc, or serenity, for the development and commercialization of ser-120, our agreement with stiefel to develop and commercialize new products that include tazarotene, our collaboration with spectrum for the development and commercialization of apaziquone and our agreement with bristol-myers squibb for the development of an investigational neuropathic pain medicine. we cannot assure you that these collaborations will be successful, lead to additional sales of our products or lead to the creation of additional products. for instance, in 2010, serenity’s phase iii clinical trials for the development and commercialization of ser-120 failed to meet their primary efficacy endpoints and we are currently evaluating a revised clinical plan. if we fail to maintain our existing collaborative arrangements or fail to enter into additional collaborative arrangements, our licensing revenues and/or the number of products from which we could receive future revenues could decline. our dependence on collaborative arrangements with third parties subjects us to a number of risks. these collaborative arrangements may not be on terms favorable to us. agreements with collaborative partners typically allow partners significant discretion in marketing our products or electing whether or not to pursue any of the planned activities. we cannot fully control the amount and timing of resources our collaborative partners may devote to products based on the collaboration, and our partners may choose to pursue alternative products to the detriment of our collaboration. in addition, our partners may not perform their obligations as expected. company business combinations, significant changes in a collaborative partner’s business strategy, or its access to financial resources may adversely affect a partner’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations. moreover, we could become involved in disputes with our partners, which could lead to delays or termination of the collaborations and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. even if we fulfill our obligations under a collaborative agreement, our partner can terminate the agreement under certain circumstances. if any collaborative partners were to terminate or breach our agreements with them, or otherwise fail to complete their obligations in a timely manner, we could be materially and adversely affected. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and regulations, changes in our interpretations of tax laws, including pending tax law changes, changes in our manufacturing activities and changes in our future levels of research and development spending. in that regard, there have been a number of recent proposals, including by congress and the treasury as well as various government appointed and outside commissions, that could substantially impact the u.s. taxation of u.s.-based multinational corporations such as allergan. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other local, state and foreign tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our estimated income tax liabilities. there can be   50 table of contents no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and estimated income tax liabilities. changes in applicable tax laws may adversely affect sales or the profitability of botox®, botox® cosmetic, our dermal fillers or breast implants. because botox® and botox® cosmetic are pharmaceutical products and our dermal fillers and breast implants are medical devices, we generally do not collect or pay state sales or other tax on sales of botox®, botox® cosmetic, our dermal fillers or our breast implants. we could be required to collect and pay state sales or other tax associated with prior, current or future years on sales of botox®, botox® cosmetic, our dermal fillers or breast implants. in addition to any retroactive taxes and corresponding interest and penalties that could be assessed, if we were required to collect or pay state sales or other tax associated with current or future years on sales of botox®, botox® cosmetic, our dermal fillers or breast implants, our sales of, or our profitability from, botox®, botox® cosmetic, our dermal fillers or breast implants could be adversely affected due to the increased cost associated with those products. the terms of our debt agreements impose restrictions on us. failure to comply with these restrictions could result in acceleration of our substantial debt. were this to occur, we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient cash to pay our accelerated indebtedness. our total indebtedness as of december 31, 2010 was approximately $2,204.8 million. this indebtedness may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which it operates and, consequently, place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in new business activities. for example, our debt agreements restrict our ability to, among other things, incur liens or engage in sale lease-back transactions and engage in consolidations, mergers and asset sales. in addition, our debt agreements include financial covenants that we maintain certain financial ratios. as a result of these covenants and ratios, we have certain limitations on the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be restricted from engaging in favorable business activities or financing future operations or capital needs. accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. failure to comply with the financial covenants or to maintain the financial ratios contained in our debt agreements could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness. we cannot assure you that our future operating results will be sufficient to ensure compliance with the covenants in our debt agreements or to remedy any such default. in addition, in the event of any default and related acceleration of obligations, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments. litigation may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and distract our management. for example, lawsuits by employees, stockholders, customers or competitors could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to us. see item 3 of part i of this report, “legal proceedings” and note 13, “legal proceedings,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements listed under item 15 of part iv of this report, “exhibits and financial statement schedules,” for information concerning our current litigation. our publicly-filed sec reports are reviewed by the sec from time to time and any significant changes required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. the reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the sec from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies’ public filings, and comprehensive reviews of such reports are now required at least   51 table of contents every three years under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. sec reviews may be initiated at any time. while we believe that our previously filed sec reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the sec, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an sec review. any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and could result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock.   item 1b. unresolved