item 1a. risk factors before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the sec, including subsequent quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k. we operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. these known and unknown risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. we operate in a highly competitive business. the pharmaceutical and medical device industries are highly competitive. to be successful in these industries, we must be able to, among other things, effectively discover, develop, test and obtain regulatory approvals for products and effectively commercialize, market and promote approved products, including by communicating the effectiveness, safety and value of products to actual and prospective customers and medical professionals. many of our competitors have greater resources than we have. this enables them to make greater research and development investments, including the acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses, and spread their research and development costs, as well as their marketing and promotion costs, over a broader revenue base. our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to develop and introduce products which are more effective than those developed by our competitors. developments by our competitors, the entry of new competitors into the markets in which we compete, and the rapid pace of scientific advancement in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries could make our products or technologies less competitive or obsolete. for example, sales of our existing products may decline rapidly if a new product is introduced that represents a substantial improvement over our existing products or that is sold at a lower price. additionally, if we lose patent coverage for a product, our products may compete against generic products that are as safe and effective as our products, but sold at considerably lower prices. the introduction of generic products could significantly reduce demand for our products within a short period of time. certain of our pharmaceutical products also compete with over-the-counter products and other products not regulated by the fda which may be priced and regulated differently than our products. we also expect to face increasing competition from biosimilar products. recent u.s. healthcare reform legislation included an abbreviated regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilars. as a result, we anticipate increasing competition from biosimilars in the future. title vii of the ppaca and the biologics price competition and innovation act of 2009, or bpcia, create a new licensure framework for biosimilar products, and the fda issued draft guidance in early 2012, which could ultimately subject our biologic products, including botox®, to competition. previously, there had been no licensure pathway for such a follow-on product. while we do not anticipate that the fda will license a biosimilar of botox® for several years, we cannot guarantee that our biologic products such as botox® will not eventually become subject to direct competition by a licensed biosimilar. we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate protection for our intellectual property rights. our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. we cannot assure you that we will successfully obtain or preserve patent protection for the technologies incorporated into our products, or that the protection obtained will be of sufficient breadth and degree to protect our commercial interests in all countries where we conduct business. in addition, third parties, including generic drug manufacturers, may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. upon the expiration or loss of necessary intellectual property protection for a product, we may rapidly lose a significant portion of our sales of that product. furthermore, we cannot assure you that our products will not infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. if we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or sell products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products. see item 3 of part i of this report, “legal proceedings,” for information concerning our current intellectual property litigation. our development efforts may not result in products or indications approved for commercial sale. we must continue to develop, test and manufacture new products or achieve new indications or label extensions for the use of our existing products. prior to marketing, these new products and product indications must satisfy stringent regulatory standards and receive requisite approvals or clearances from regulatory authorities in the united states and abroad. it typically takes many 22 table of contents years to satisfy the regulatory requirements to obtain approval or clearance to market products such as ours and approval timing varies substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product. we may be required to conduct costly and time-intensive clinical trials in order to obtain clearance or approval. the development, regulatory review and approval, and commercialization processes are very expensive and time consuming, costly and subject to numerous factors that may delay or prevent the development, approval or clearance, and commercialization of new products. in addition, any of our product candidates or indications may receive necessary regulatory approvals or clearances only after delays or unanticipated costs. for example, prior to the fda approval of botox® for the prophylactic treatment of headaches in adults with chronic migraine in 2010, we were required to adopt a rems program addressing the risks related to botulinum toxin spread beyond the injection site and the non-interchangeability of botulinum toxins. even if we receive regulatory approvals for a new product or indication, the product may later exhibit adverse effects that limit or prevent its widespread use or that force us to withdraw the product from the market or to revise our labeling to limit the indications for which the product may be prescribed. further, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians and others, which differences may delay, limit or prevent further clinical development or regulatory approvals of a product candidate. also, the length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for product marketing is unpredictable and varies by product and by the intended use of a product. of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product. from time to time, legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced that could alter the review and approval process relating to our products. for example, in response to industry and healthcare provider concerns regarding the predictability, consistency and rigor of the 510(k) regulatory pathway, the fda initiated an evaluation of the program and, in the first quarter of 2011, announced numerous actions that are intended to reform the review process governing the clearance of medical devices. it is possible that the fda or other governmental authorities will issue additional regulations further restricting the sale of our present or proposed products. any change in legislation or regulations that govern the review and approval process relating to our current and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain approval for new products, or to produce, market and distribute existing products. moreover, any of our product candidates or indications may fail at any stage, potentially after substantial financial and other resources have been invested in their development. successful product development in the pharmaceutical and medical device industry is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons. for instance, a product candidate may not be effective in treating a specified condition or illness, a product candidate may have harmful side effects in humans or animals, the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the fda, may not approve the product candidate for an intended use, a product candidate may not be economical for us to manufacture and commercialize, or certain of our licensors or partners may fail to effectively conduct clinical development or clinical manufacturing activities. our business and products are subject to extensive government regulation. we are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by federal and state governmental authorities in the united states, principally by the fda and the u.s. drug enforcement administration, or dea, and foreign regulatory authorities. failure to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements, including those promulgated under the ffdca and controlled substances act, may subject us to operating restrictions and criminal prosecution, monetary penalties and other disciplinary actions, including, sanctions, warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspension, revocation of approvals, or exclusion from future participation in the medicare and medicaid programs. after our products receive regulatory approval or clearance, we, and our direct and indirect suppliers, remain subject to the periodic inspection of our plants and facilities, review of production processes, and testing of our products to confirm that we are in compliance with all applicable regulations. for example, the fda conducts ongoing inspections to determine whether our record keeping, production processes and controls, personnel and quality control are in compliance with the cgmps, the qsr and other fda regulations. adverse findings during regulatory inspections may result in the implementation of rems programs, completion of government mandated post-marketing clinical studies, and government enforcement action relating to labeling, advertising, marketing and promotion, as well as regulations governing manufacturing controls noted above. the fda has increased its enforcement activities related to the advertising and promotion of pharmaceutical, biological and medical device products. in particular, the fda has increased its scrutiny of our compliance with the agency's regulations and guidance governing direct-to-consumer advertising. the fda may limit or, with respect to certain products, terminate our dissemination of direct-to-consumer advertisements in the future, which could cause sales of those products to decline. in addition, our communications to physicians regarding the prescription of our pharmaceutical and biologic products, and the utilization of our medical device products that are not described in the product's labeling or differ from those tested by us and approved or 23 table of contents cleared by the fda, are restricted by federal statutes, fda regulations and other governmental communications. if our promotional activities fail to comply with applicable laws, regulations, guidelines or interpretations, we may be subject to enforcement actions by the fda or other governmental enforcement authorities.   disruptions in our supply chain or failure to adequately forecast product demand could result in significant delays or lost sales. the interruption of our manufacturing processes could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell many of our products. we manufacture certain products, including botox® and restasis®, at a single facility or a single site. therefore, a significant disruptive event, including a fire or natural disaster, at certain manufacturing facilities or sites could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. in the event of a disruption, we may need to build or locate replacement facilities as well as seek and obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for these facilities. accordingly, we may experience substantial production delays, and, if our finished goods inventories are insufficient to meet demand, we may be unable to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis, if at all. the loss of a material supplier could also significantly disrupt our business. in some cases, we obtain components or chemicals used in certain of our products from single sources. if we experience difficulties acquiring sufficient quantities of required materials or products from our existing suppliers, or if our suppliers are found to be non-compliant with the fda's qsrs, cgmps or other applicable laws, obtaining the required regulatory approvals to use alternative suppliers may be a lengthy and uncertain process during which we could lose sales. any failure by us to forecast demand for, or to maintain an adequate supply of, the raw material and finished product could result in an interruption in the supply of certain products and a decline in sales of that product. for example, the manufacturing process to create the raw material necessary to produce botox® and other products is technically complex and requires significant lead-time. in addition, if our suppliers are unable to meet our manufacturing requirements, we may not be able to produce a sufficient amount of materials or products in a timely manner, which could cause a decline in our sales. increased concerns over the safety of our products may result in negative publicity or increased regulatory controls on our products. the company's reputation is the foundation of our relationships with physicians, patients and other customers. if we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues, which could negatively impact sentiments toward the company, our business could suffer. pharmaceuticals and medical devices are perceived to be dangerous products and our customers may have a number of concerns about the safety of our products whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research. these concerns may be increased by negative publicity, even if the publicity is inaccurate. for example, consumer groups and certain plaintiffs have alleged that certain uses of botox®, including off-label uses, have caused patient injuries and death and have further alleged that we failed to adequately warn patients of the risks relating to botox® use. from time to time reports related to the quality and safety of breast implant devices are published, including reports that have suggested a possible association between anaplastic large cell lymphoma and breast implants, as well as negative reports from regulatory authorities in europe related to a breast implant manufacturer that is not affiliated with the company. in addition, government investigations related to the use of our products, but not the efficacy of the products themselves, may cause reputational harm to the company. negative publicity-whether accurate or inaccurate-about the efficacy, safety or side effects of our products or product categories, whether involving us or a competitor, could materially reduce market acceptance of our products, cause consumers to seek alternatives to our products, result in product withdrawals and cause our stock price to decline. negative publicity could also result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims have a basis in scientific fact.  we are also subject to adverse event reporting regulations that require us to report to the fda or similar bodies in other countries if our products are associated with a death or serious injury, even if there is no available evidence of a causal relationship between the adverse event and the product. such reports may be publicly released by the fda and other authorities. for instance, the fda maintains a public database, known as the manufacturer and user facility device experience, or maude, that posts reports of adverse events involving medical devices. the submission of an adverse event report for a pharmaceutical or medical device product to the fda and its public release on maude, or other public database, does not, by regulation, reflect a conclusion by us or the fda that the product caused or contributed to the adverse event. however, as part of our post-marketing pharmacovigilance program, we routinely monitor the adverse event reports we receive to identify potential safety issues, known as signals, that may require us to take action with respect to the product, such as a recall or other market action, or to amend our labeling to add the adverse reaction or a new warning or contraindication. the fda and other regulatory authorities also monitor adverse event reports to identify safety signals, and may take action in connection with that monitoring, including the imposition on us of additional regulatory controls, such as the performance of costly post-approval clinical studies or revisions to our approved labeling, which requirements could limit the indications or patient population for our products or could even lead to the withdrawal of a product from the market. we cannot assure you that the fda will agree with our assessments of whether a safety signal exists 24 table of contents for one of our products. furthermore, any adverse publicity associated with adverse events for our products, and related post-marketing actions, could cause consumers to seek alternatives to our products, and thereby cause our sales to decline, even if our products are ultimately determined not to have been the primary cause of the adverse event. we are subject to complex government healthcare legislation and reimbursement programs, as well as other cost-containment pressures. some of our products are purchased or reimbursed by federal and state government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, including heath maintenance and managed care organizations. these third-party payors increasingly challenge pharmaceutical and medical device product pricing, which could result in lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. in addition, legislative and regulatory proposals and enactments to reform healthcare insurance programs could significantly influence the manner in which pharmaceutical products, biologic products and medical devices are prescribed and purchased. for example, in march 2010, the president of the united states signed the ppaca, which substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly impacts the u.s. pharmaceutical and medical device industries. the ppaca, among other things, subjects biologic products to potential competition by lower-cost biosimilars, increases the minimum medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the medicaid drug rebate program and extends the rebate program to individuals enrolled in medicaid managed care organizations, establishes annual fees and taxes on manufacturers of certain branded prescription drugs and medical devices, requires manufacturers to participate in a discount program for certain outpatient drugs under medicare part d, and promotes programs that increase the federal government's comparative effectiveness research. a number of state governors have strenuously opposed certain of the ppaca's provisions, and initiated lawsuits challenging its constitutionality. congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the ppaca. at this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the ppaca, whether to certain provisions or its entirety. in addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ppaca was enacted. we expect that the ppaca, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could significantly reduce the projected value of certain development projects and reduce our profitability. recent federal regulatory changes have included reductions in medicare reimbursement for most separately payable physician-administered drugs under the hospital outpatient prospective payment system and pricing limits on certain branded pharmaceutical products. payments made to retail pharmacies under the tricare retail pharmacy program for prescriptions filled on or after january 28, 2008 are subject to certain price ceilings utilized by other department of defense programs. the extent to which future legislation or regulations, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business remains uncertain. in addition, individual states have also become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access, and to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. furthermore, regional healthcare authorities and individual hospitals are increasingly using bidding procedures to determine what pharmaceutical and medical device products and which suppliers will be included in their prescription drug and other healthcare programs. any legally mandated price controls or utilization of bidding procedures could negatively and materially impact our revenues and financial condition. our ability to sell our products to hospitals in the united states also depends in part on our relationships with wholesalers and group purchasing organizations, or gpos. we sell our pharmaceutical products primarily through wholesalers. these wholesale customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the united states. this distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation. we expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. in addition, wholesalers may apply pricing pressure through fee-for-service arrangements, and their purchases may exceed customer demand, resulting in reduced wholesaler purchases in later quarters. we cannot assure you that we can manage these pressures or that wholesaler purchases will not decrease as a result of this potential excess buying. many existing and potential customers for our products become members of gpos. gpos negotiate pricing arrangements and contracts, sometimes on an exclusive basis, with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a gpo's affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a gpo, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and if the gpo has negotiated a strict sole source, market share compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturer's products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the gpo for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to renew contracts with gpos may cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse impact on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. we 25 table of contents cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these contracts at the current or substantially similar terms. if we are unable to keep our relationships and develop new relationships with gpos, our competitive position would likely suffer. we also encounter similar legislative, regulatory and pricing issues in most countries outside the united states. international operations are generally subject to extensive governmental price controls and other market regulations, and we believe the increasing emphasis on cost-containment initiatives in europe and other countries has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our pharmaceutical and medical device products. although we cannot predict the extent to which our business may be affected by future cost-containment measures or other potential legislative or regulatory developments, additional foreign price controls or other changes in pricing regulation could restrict the amount that we are able to charge for our current and future products, which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. compliance with domestic and international laws and regulations pertaining to the privacy and security of health information may be time consuming, difficult and costly. failure to comply with domestic and international privacy and security laws can result in the imposition of significant civil and criminal penalties. the costs of compliance with these laws, including protecting electronically stored information from cyber attacks, and potential liability associated with failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to various domestic and international privacy and security regulations, including but not limited to hipaa. hipaa mandates, among other things, the adoption of uniform standards for the electronic exchange of information in common healthcare transactions, as well as standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, which require the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. in addition, many states have enacted comparable laws addressing the privacy and security of health information, some of which are more stringent than hipaa. while we currently expend significant resources to protect against cyber attacks and security breaches, we may need to expend additional significant resources in the future to continue to protect against potential security breaches or to address problems caused by such attacks or any breach of our safeguards. a party that is able to circumvent our security safeguards could, among other things, misappropriate or misuse sensitive or confidential information, user information or other proprietary information, cause significant interruptions in our operations and cause all or portions of our website to be unavailable. further, any reductions in the availability of our website could impair our ability to conduct our business, comply with regulations, and adversely impact our customers during the occurrence of any such incident. if we market products in a manner that violates healthcare fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. we are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. the federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under medicare, medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. this statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical or medical device manufacturers, on the one hand, and prescribers, purchasers, formulary managers and other health care related professions, on the other hand. due to recent legislative changes, a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration could be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. recent legislation also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device and drug manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective march 30, 2013. in addition, device and drug manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. failure to submit required information may result in significant civil monetary penalties. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, including reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates and engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off- 26 table of contents label uses. hipaa created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. the healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. the false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to these federal laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. in addition, some states, including california, have laws and regulations that require pharmaceutical companies to adopt comprehensive compliance programs. we have adopted and implemented a compliance program which we believe satisfies the requirements of these laws, regulations and industry codes. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, mandatory compliance programs, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. if our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations to which we are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. we remain subject to government investigations and related subpoenas. such investigations and subpoenas are often associated with previously filed qui tam actions, or lawsuits filed under seal under the false claims act, or fca, 31 u.s.c. § 3729 et seq. qui tam actions are brought by private plaintiffs suing on behalf of the federal government for alleged fca violations. we may currently be subject to investigation for alleged fca violations pursuant to qui tam actions, which may be under full or partial seal. the time and expense associated with responding to such subpoenas, and any related qui tam or other actions, may be extensive, and we cannot predict the results of our review of the responsive documents and underlying facts or the results of such actions. the costs of responding to government investigations, defending any claims raised, and any resulting fines, restitution, damages and penalties (including under the fca), settlement payments or administrative actions, as well as any related actions brought by stockholders or other third parties, could have a material impact on our reputation, business and financial condition and divert the attention of our management from operating our business. for example, in september 2010, we announced that we reached a settlement with the department of justice regarding our alleged sales and marketing practices in connection with certain therapeutic uses of botox®. as part of the settlement, we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services. failure to comply with the terms of the corporate integrity agreement could result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and being excluded from government health care programs, which could materially reduce our sales and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and other worldwide anti-bribery laws. we are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making payments to non-u.s. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing any other improper advantage. we are also subject to similar anti-bribery laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the united kingdom's bribery act of 2010, which went into effect in the third quarter of 2011, which also prohibits commercial bribery and makes it a crime for companies to fail to prevent bribery. although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and our agents comply with the fcpa and related laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the fcpa or related laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries with respect to our business. failure to comply with the fcpa or related laws governing the conduct of business with foreign government entities could disrupt our business and lead to severe criminal and civil penalties, including criminal and civil fines, loss of our export licenses, suspension of our ability to do business with the federal government, denial of government reimbursement for our products and exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs. other remedial measures could include further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies, and controls and potential personnel changes and/or disciplinary actions, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we could also be adversely affected by any allegation that we violated such laws. illegal imports and counterfeit products may reduce demand for our products. the illegal importation of counterfeit products and pharmaceutical and medical device products from countries where government price controls or other market dynamics result in lower prices may adversely affect our sales and profitability in the united states and other countries in which we operate. foreign imports are illegal under current u.s. law, with the sole exception 27 table of contents of limited quantities of prescription drugs imported for personal use. however, the volume of illegal imports continues to rise as the ability of patients and other customers to obtain these lower priced imports has grown significantly. in addition, u.s. policy makers may expand consumers' ability to import lower priced versions of our products and competing products from canada, where there are government price controls. any future legislation or regulations that increase consumer access to lower priced medicines from outside the united states may lower the prices we receive for our products, which could adversely impact our revenues. litigation may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures, affect our ability to market and distribute our products and distract our management. for example, lawsuits by employees, stockholders, customers or competitors could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to us. see item 3 of part i of this report, “legal proceedings,” for information concerning our current litigation. we may experience losses due to product liability claims, product recalls or corrections. the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability or other claims by consumers and other third parties. we have been in the past, and continue to be, subject to various product liability lawsuits, product recalls and requirements to issue field corrections related to our products due to manufacturing deficiencies, labeling errors or other safety or regulatory reasons.  our pharmaceutical and medical device products may cause, or may appear to cause, serious adverse side effects or potentially dangerous drug interactions if misused, improperly prescribed, improperly implanted or subject to faulty surgical technique. for example, the manufacture and sale of breast implant products has been and continues to be the subject of a significant number of product liability claims due to allegations that the medical devices cause disease or result in complications, rare lymphomas and other health conditions due to rupture, deflation or other product failure. in addition to product liability claims, in the event of a breast implant rupture or deflation that requires surgical intervention with respect to our breast implant products sold and implanted, our warranty programs may require us to replace the product. furthermore, we face a substantial risk of product liability claims from our eye care, neuromodulator, urology, skin care, obesity intervention and facial aesthetics products. consistent with market practice in our industry, we largely self-insure for future product liability losses related to botox®, botox® cosmetic and our breast implant products. our self-insurance program is based on historical loss trends, and we can provide no assurance that our self-insurance program accruals will be adequate to cover future losses, and our third-party insurance coverage may be inadequate to satisfy any other covered liabilities we might incur. if third parties with whom we collaborate do not perform, we may not be able to develop and market products as anticipated. we have entered into collaborative arrangements with third parties to develop and market certain products. we cannot assure you that these collaborations will be successful, lead to additional sales of our products or lead to the creation of additional products. our dependence on collaborative arrangements with third parties subjects us to a number of risks, including: • our inability to fully control the amount and timing of resources our collaborative partners may devote to products based on the collaboration, and our partners may choose to pursue alternative products to the detriment of our collaboration; •counterparties may not perform their obligations as expected; • we could become involved in disputes with counterparties, which could lead to delays or termination of the collaborations and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration; and •counterparties can terminate the collaboration agreement under certain circumstances. acquisitions of technologies, products, and businesses could disrupt our business, involve increased expenses and present risks not contemplated at the time of the transactions. we regularly consider and, as appropriate, make acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses that we believe are complementary to our business. acquisitions typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel, technologies and products acquired, some of which may result in significant charges to earnings. issues that must be addressed in acquiring and integrating the acquired technologies, products and businesses into our own include: • conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, operating divisions, business cultures and compensation structures; 28 table of contents • retaining key employees; •retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; •consolidating operational infrastructure, including information technology, accounting systems and administration; •mitigating the risk of unknown liabilities; and •managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating operations. if we are unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions with our existing business, we may not obtain the advantages that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may materially adversely affect our business, and our ability to develop and introduce new products. actual costs and sales synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than we expect and may take longer to achieve than we anticipate. furthermore, the products of companies we acquire may overlap with our products or those of our customers, creating conflicts with existing relationships or with other commitments that are detrimental to the integrated businesses. adverse u.s. or international economic conditions may negatively affect our business. adverse u.s. or international economic conditions or a decline of global or country-specific financial markets may reduce consumer demand for our products. many of our products have limited reimbursement or are not reimbursable by governmental or other healthcare plans. instead, these products are partially or wholly paid for directly by the consumer. adverse economic and market conditions could also have a negative impact on our business by negatively affecting the parties with whom we do business, including among others, our customers, suppliers, wholesale distributors, creditors, collaboration partners and other third parties with whom we do business. we also collect and pay a substantial portion of our sales and expenditures in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. therefore, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results. we cannot assure you that future exchange rate movements, inflation or other related factors will not have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. these risks include, among other things: • reductions in the reimbursement amounts we receive for our products from foreign governments and foreign insurance providers; •unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, including quality standards and other certification requirements; •adverse changes in trade protection measures, including tariffs and export license requirements; and • difficulties in coordinating and managing foreign operations, including ensuring that foreign operations comply with foreign laws as well as u.s. laws applicable to u.s. companies with foreign operations, such as export laws and the fcpa.  unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and regulations, changes in our interpretations of tax laws, including pending tax law changes, changes in our manufacturing activities and changes in our future levels of research and development spending. in that regard, there have been a number of recent proposals, including by congress and the treasury as well as various government appointed and outside commissions, that could substantially impact the u.s. taxation of u.s. based multinational corporations such as allergan. in addition, certain u.s. federal income tax provisions, including a research and development tax credit that provides a tax benefit on certain research and development expenditures, expired at the end of 2011, and congress has not yet, and may not, extend the applicability of such provisions into 2012 or beyond. the permanent loss of the r&d tax credit would adversely affect our effective tax rate and our profitability. we generally do not collect or pay state sales or other tax on sales of certain products, including botox®, botox® cosmetic, our dermal fillers and breast implants. changes in applicable tax laws that require us to collect and pay state sales or other taxes, and penalties, associated with prior, current or future years on sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and profitability due to the increased cost associated with those products. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other local, state and foreign tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our estimated income tax liabilities. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and estimated income tax liabilities. 29 table of contents the terms of our debt agreements impose restrictions on our business. our indebtedness may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and, consequently, place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in new business activities. for example, our debt agreements restrict our ability to, among other things, incur liens or engage in sale lease-back transactions and engage in consolidations, mergers and asset sales. in addition, our debt agreements include financial covenants that we maintain certain financial ratios. as a result of these covenants and ratios, we have certain limitations on the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be restricted from engaging in favorable business activities or financing future operations or capital needs. accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. failure to comply with the financial covenants or to maintain the financial ratios contained in our debt agreements could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness. we cannot assure you that our future operating results will be sufficient to ensure compliance with the covenants in our debt agreements or to remedy any such default. in addition, in the event of any default and related acceleration of obligations, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments. we are exposed to the risk of environmental liabilities. our product development programs and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and toxic compounds. these programs and processes expose us to risks that an accidental contamination could lead to noncompliance with environmental laws, regulatory enforcement actions and claims for personal injury and property damage. in addition, we may be subject to clean-up obligations, damages and fines related to the discharge of hazardous materials, chemicals and toxic compounds on our properties whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. for example, in connection with the acquisition and ownership of our properties, we may be potentially liable for environmental clean-up costs. environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which our properties may be used or our business may be operated. environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. any costs or expenses relating to environmental matters may not be covered by insurance and, accordingly, may have a material and adverse impact on our business. natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our business. we are a global company with sales and marketing subsidiaries in approximately 38 countries and are present in over 100 countries, as supplemented by distributors. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, floods and tornados, or severe changes in geo-political events, such as wars, civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers or distributors are located, could adversely affect our business and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, properties or assets that are important to us or to our suppliers or distributors, changes in consumers' income or purchasing patterns, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products to us, or disruption in the distribution of our products. any such events and their consequences are unpredictable and could disrupt our operations or the operations of our suppliers or distributors and could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our publicly filed sec reports may be reviewed by the sec. the reports of publicly traded companies are subject to review by the sec from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies' public filings, and comprehensive reviews of such reports are now required at least every three years under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the sec reviews may be initiated at any time. while we believe that our previously filed sec reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the sec, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an sec review. any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and could result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. item 1b.    unresolved