item 1a. risk factors we are exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties.  most are general risks and uncertainties applicable to all water utility companies.  we describe below some of the specific known risk factors that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  if one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results may vary materially from our projections.  all forward-looking statements made by us in this annual report to the securities and exchange commission on form 10-k, in our annual report to shareholders and in our subsequently filed quarterly and current reports to the securities and exchange commission, as well as in our press releases and other public communications, are qualified by the risks described below. our operating revenue is primarily from water sales.  the rates that we charge our customers are subject to the regulations of the public service commissions in the states in which we operate.  additionally, our business requires significant capital expenditures on an annual basis and these expenditures are made for additions and replacement of property.  if a public service commission disapproves or is unable to timely approve our requests for rate increase or approves rate increases that are inadequate to cover our investments or increased costs, our profitability may suffer. we file rate increase requests, from time to time, to recover our investments in utility plant and expenses.  once a rate increase petition is filed with a public service commission, the ensuing administrative and hearing process may be lengthy and costly.  we can provide no assurances that any future rate increase request will be approved by the depsc, mdpsc or papuc, and if approved, we cannot guarantee that these rate increases will be granted in a timely manner and/or will be sufficient in amount to cover the investments and expenses for which we initially sought the rate increase. our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect demand for our water service and our revenues. demand for water during warmer months is generally greater than during cooler months primarily due to additional customer requirements in irrigation systems, swimming pools, cooling systems and other outside water use.  in the event that temperatures during typically warmer months are cooler than normal, or when rainfall is more than normal, the demand for our water may decrease and adversely affect our revenues. drought conditions and government imposed water use restrictions may impact our ability to serve our current and future customers, and may impact our customers’ use of our water, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we believe that we have in place sufficient capacity to provide water service for the foreseeable future to all existing and new customers in all of our service territories.  however, severe drought conditions could interfere with our sources of water supply and could adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our existing and future customers.  this may adversely affect our revenues and earnings.  moreover, governmental restrictions on water usage during drought conditions may result in a decreased demand for water, which may adversely affect our revenue and earnings. our operating costs could be significantly increased if new or stricter regulatory standards are imposed by federal and state environmental agencies. our water and wastewater services are governed by various federal and state environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, including the federal safe drinking water act, the clean water act and similar state laws.  these federal and state regulations are issued by the united states environmental protection agency and state environmental regulatory agencies.  pursuant to these laws, we are required to obtain various water allocation permits and environmental permits for our operations.  the water allocation permits control the amount of water that can be drawn from water resources.  new or stricter water allocation regulations can adversely affect our ability to meet the demands of our customers.  while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with these laws and our permits, it is possible that new or stricter standards would be imposed that will raise our operating costs.  thus, we can provide no assurances that our costs of complying with, or discharging liability under current and future environmental and health and safety laws will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.     14   table of contents   we are subject to risks associated with the collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater. wastewater collection, treatment and disposal involve various unique risks.  if collection or treatment systems fail, overflow, or do not operate properly, untreated wastewater or other contaminants could spill onto nearby properties or into nearby streams and rivers, causing damage to persons or property, injury to aquatic life and economic damages, which may not be recoverable in fees.  this risk is most acute during periods of substantial rainfall or flooding, which are common causes of sewer overflow and system failure.  liabilities resulting from such damages and injuries could materially and adversely affect the company’s results of operations and financial condition. turnover in our management team could have an adverse impact on our business or the financial market’s perception of our ability to continue to grow. our success depends significantly on the continued contribution of our management team both individually and collectively.  the loss of the services of any member of our management team or the inability to hire and retain experienced management personnel could harm our operating results. we face competition from other water and wastewater utilities for the acquisition of new exclusive service territories. water and wastewater utilities competitively pursue the right to exclusively serve territories in delaware and maryland by entering into agreements with landowners, developers or municipalities and, under current law, then applying to the depsc or the mdpsc for a cpcn, which grants a water or wastewater utility the exclusive right to serve all existing and new customers of a water or wastewater utility within a designated area.  typically, water and wastewater utilities enter into agreements with developers who have approval from county governments with respect to proposed subdivisions or developments.  once a cpcn is granted to a water or wastewater utility, generally it may not be suspended or terminated unless the depsc or mdpsc determines in accordance with its rules and regulations that good cause exists for any such suspension or termination.  therefore, we face competition from other water and wastewater utilities as we pursue the right to exclusively serve territories.  if we are unable to enter into agreements with landowners, developers or municipalities and secure cpcns for the right to exclusively serve territories in delaware or maryland, our ability to expand may be significantly impeded. we depend on the availability of capital for expansion, construction and maintenance.  weaknesses in capital and credit markets may limit our access to capital. our ability to continue our expansion efforts and fund our utility construction and maintenance program depends on the availability of adequate capital.  there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain sufficient capital in the future on favorable terms and conditions for expansion, construction and maintenance.  recent economic conditions and disruptions have caused substantial volatility in capital markets, including credit markets and the banking industry and have increased the cost and significantly reduced the availability of credit from financing sources, which may continue or worsen in the future.  in the event our lines of credit are not extended or we are unable to refinance our first mortgage bonds when due and the borrowings are called for payment, we will have to seek alternative financing sources, although there can be no assurance that these alternative financing sources will be available on terms acceptable to us.  in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, our expansion efforts could be curtailed, which may affect our growth and may affect our future results of operations. general economic conditions may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the continuing effects of adverse u.s. economic conditions may lead to a number of impacts on our business that may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  such impacts may include a reduction in discretionary and recreational water use by our residential water customers, particularly during the summer months; a decline in usage by industrial and commercial customers as a result of decreased business activity and commerce in our customers’ businesses; an increased incidence of customers’ inability, bankruptcy or delay in paying their bills which may lead to higher bad debt expense and reduced cash flow; and a lower natural customer growth rate may result as compared to what had been experienced before the economic downturn due to a decline in new housing starts and a possible slight decline in the number of active customers due to housing vacancies or abandonments.   15   table of contents   any future acquisitions we undertake or other actions to further grow our water and wastewater business may involve risks. an element of our growth strategy is the acquisition and integration of water and wastewater systems in order to broaden our current service areas, and move into new ones.  it is our intent, when practical, to integrate any businesses we acquire with our existing operations.  the negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of our management’s time and resources.  we may not be successful in the future in identifying businesses that meet our acquisition criteria.  the failure to identify such businesses may limit the rate of our growth.  in addition, future acquisitions or expansion of our service areas by us could result in: ødilutive issuance of our equity securities; øincurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; ødifficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; ødiversion of our management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; øfailure to have effective internal control over financial reporting; øshuffling of human resources; and øother acquisition-related expense some or all of these items could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to finance our business and comply with regulatory requirements.  the businesses we acquire in the future may not achieve sales and profitability that would justify our investment. we also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a transaction and the risk that an announced transaction may not close.  completion of certain acquisition transactions are conditioned upon, among other things, the receipt of approvals, including from the certain state public utilities commissions.  failure to complete a pending transaction would prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits.  we would also remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal and accounting fees, whether or not the transaction is completed. we are subject to, and could be further subject to, governmental investigations or actions by other third parties. we are subject to various federal and state laws, including environmental laws, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. artesian water received a federal grand jury subpoena in connection with an investigation being conducted by the united states attorney’s office in the eastern district of pennsylvania and the environmental protection agency. the subpoena requests certain documents from artesian water principally relating to eight wastewater facilities in pennsylvania formerly operated by personnel of artesian utility development, inc., our wholly owned subsidiary.  artesian resources was subsequently advised that artesian utility’s operation of the eight wastewater facilities in pennsylvania is a subject of the grand jury investigation.  we are fully cooperating with the investigation. due to the stage of the investigation, we are unable to predict the outcome of the investigation, or the possible loss or range of loss, if any, which could be associated with the resolution of any possible criminal charges or civil claims that may be brought against us. should such charges or claims be brought, we could face significant fines, damage awards or regulatory consequences which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, we are currently subject to pending litigation. on december 22, 2010, artesian water filed a complaint in the united states district court for the eastern district of pennsylvania against chester water authority claiming breach of contract, unjust enrichment and requesting declaratory judgment in relation to an agreement by chester water to supply bulk water supplies to artesian water. on february 11, 2011, artesian water received an answer and counterclaim from chester water authority denying artesian water’s claims and allegations, asserting a counterclaim for breach of contract and seeking monetary damages, related costs and attorneys’ fees.  although artesian water intends to pursue its claims and defense in the action vigorously, there can be no assurances that it will prevail on any of the claims in the action, or, if it does prevail on one or more claims, of the amount or nature of recovery that may be awarded to it for such claim(s). our operations from time to time could be parties to or targets of additional lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including system failure, injury, contract, environmental, health and safety and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary course of business.  the results of any future litigation or settlement of such lawsuits and claims are inherently unpredictable, but such outcomes could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.   16   table of contents   we are dependent on the continuous and reliable operation of our information technology systems. we rely on our information technology systems in connection with the operation of our business, specifically with respect to customer service and billing, managing construction projects, managing our financial records, tracking assets, remotely monitoring some of our plants and facilities and managing human resources, inventory and accounts receivable collections.  a loss of these systems or major problems with the operation of these systems could affect our operations and have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations. contamination of our water supply may result in disruption in our services and could lead to litigation that may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our water supplies are subject to contamination from naturally-occurring compounds as well as pollution resulting from man-made sources.  even though we monitor the quality of water on an on-going basis, any possible contamination due to factors beyond our control could interrupt the use of our water supply until we are able to substitute it from an uncontaminated water source.  additionally, treating the contaminated water source could involve significant costs and could adversely affect our business.  we could also be held liable for consequences arising out of human or environmental exposure to hazardous substances, if found, in our water supply.  this could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. potential terrorist attacks may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. we have taken steps to increase security measures at our facilities and heighten employee awareness of threats to our water supply.  we also have tightened our security measures regarding delivery and handling of certain chemicals used in our business.  we have and will continue to bear any increase in costs for security precautions to protect our facilities, operations and supplies, most of which have been recoverable under state regulatory policies.  while the costs of increases in security, including capital expenditures, may be significant, we expect these costs to continue to be recoverable in water and wastewater rates.  despite our security measures, we may not be in a position to control the outcome of terrorist events, or other attacks on our water systems, should they occur.     17   table of contents item 1b. unresolved