item 1a. risk factors 8 table of contents our operating results fluctuate due to factors that are difficult to forecast, are often out of our control, and can be volatile. our past operating results may not accurately indicate our future performance. our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and could fluctuate in the future. factors that may contribute to fluctuations include: • changes in aggregate capital spending, cyclicality and other economic conditions, or demand in the industries we serve; • impact of our restructuring activities on our operations; • management of our working capital; • changes in our products’ market acceptance or demand; • new products or changes in pricing, by us, our distribution channels, or our competitors; • pricing and availability of components and raw materials; • changes in our product mix from quarter to quarter affecting our gross margins; • our failure to manufacture a sufficient volume of products in a timely and cost-effective manner; • our inability to decrease certain fixed costs and expenses to address changes in demand; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • shifts in geographic concentration of our sales; • seasonality; • our ability to expand our product offerings; and • extraordinary events such as litigation, claims, information security breaches or mergers and acquisitions. we generally recognize revenues upon shipment, or in certain cases upon receipt by customers. as a result, our net revenues and results of operations are affected by the timing of orders received and shipped. a significant percentage of our shipments occur in the last month of each quarter, making reliable forecasting of demand level for our products for a particular quarter difficult. further, an order cancellation, reduction or delay in shipments near the end of a fiscal period may cause sales to fall below expectations and harm our operating results for that period. we have and may also enter into agreements requiring us to accept certain orders meeting agreed criteria and to hold specified levels of inventory available. in fiscal 2013, we shipped $1.2 million of mobile products requiring customer acceptance as of june 30, 2013. we expect the volume of revenue requiring customer acceptance to decrease as mobile products become more widely used.  to address these difficulties, we periodically stock inventory levels of completed robots, machine controllers and certain strategic components. as a result, our operating results vary, our stock price is volatile, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. we have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow in the past, and have limited liquidity resources, which could impair our ability to invest in growth and adversely affect our operations. we have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow, and if our projected revenue fails to increase or our expenses exceed current expectations, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, adequately respond to competitive pressures or fully execute our business plan. in june 2012, we raised approximately $3.1 million in connection with our public offering of common stock, and in september 2012, we raised approximately $7.6 million of net proceeds, after estimated expenses, in connection with our redeemable convertible preferred stock financing. these financings increased our cash resources and allowed us to pay off our previous line of credit, but our liquidity remains limited and restrictions and tax consequences may limit our access to existing cash balances from our foreign operations. we have historically relied on a line of credit which expires in march 2014 and includes restrictions tied to the company's accounts receivable. we depend on the cash raised from our recent financings and funds generated from operating activities to sustain and grow our business. our redeemable convertible preferred stock entitles holders to quarterly dividends, payable in cash or common stock, at a fluctuating rate of up to 4% (subject to increase on certain triggering events), provides for certain elective installment payments in cash or stock subject to certain equity conditions, and is redeemable in 2016 or upon certain trigger events. we do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock. if we are unable to obtain sufficient capital on favorable terms, it could undermine our ability to pursue expansion opportunities and could limit the working capital available to our business, harming 9 table of contents our operating results. our restructuring efforts may not be effective, might have unintended consequences, and could negatively impact our business. we have restructured our operations in response to changes in the economic environment, our industry and demand, including restructuring programs in the second quarters of fiscal years 2012 and 2013 to streamline operations, consolidate facilities and reduce our work force. during fiscal 2012, we consolidated our denmark operations from our inmotx acquisition into our existing operations, incurring restructuring expenses in fiscal 2012. in fiscal 2013, in response to a persistent decline in demand across the company's target markets, we reduced our work force, streamlined operations and eliminated duplicate functions and non-essential administrative services. additionally, we are in the process of terminating our lease in wissous, france. as part of this restructuring program, we reviewed and aligned our strategic priorities and rebalanced our investments to maintain sufficient liquidity and to focus on growth in our core competencies. despite our planning, some cost-cutting measures could have unexpected negative consequences, including loss of key personnel, or the loss of customers. in connection with our restructurings, we have reduced our work force and experienced additional attrition, which may expose the company to legal claims against the company and loss of necessary human resources. if we face costly employee or contract termination claims, our operations and prospects could be harmed. while our restructuring efforts reduced, or are expected to reduce, our costs, we cannot be certain that all restructuring efforts will be successful or that we will not be required to implement additional restructuring activities in the future. if we are unable to build and effectively integrate our new management team, our business could be harmed. our management team, including our chief executive officer, is new and we are experiencing other significant personnel changes, including the addition of our chief business development and strategy officer, the addition of a vice president of mobile sales, the replacement of our vice president of north american sales and the addition of a vice president of asia and strategic programs. integrating new management into existing operations always carries risk. if we are unable to effectively build our new management team or integrate our new team members, our operations and prospects could be harmed. we depend on outsourced manufacturing and information technology capabilities and single source suppliers, and if we experience disruptions in this supply or prices increase, our business may suffer. we outsource most of our manufacturing functions, and obtain many key components, materials and mechanical sub-systems from sole or single source suppliers. we have limited contracts or guaranteed supply arrangements with these suppliers, and the lack of alternate sources and lengthy qualification process for replacement suppliers involves significant risks. these risks include whether or not new suppliers will provide adequate quantities with sufficient quality on a timely basis, and the risk that supplier pricing may be higher than anticipated. if we are unable to obtain necessary items on a timely basis, at acceptable prices, and of sufficient quality, we could lose current or future business. in the past, we have experienced quality control or specification problems with certain components provided by sole source suppliers, and have had to design around flawed items. any quality issues could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost sales, or increased warranty costs, and could harm our results of operations. any significant price increase or disruption of our supply sources could interrupt our product shipments, require reengineering, and damage customer relationships. if our suppliers cease manufacturing components that we require, we may need to purchase a significant amount of inventory that could lead to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. finally, if we incorrectly forecast product mix for a particular period and we are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of any components or mechanical sub-systems on a timely and cost-effective basis due to long procurement lead times, our business could be substantially impaired. global economic conditions currently affecting our customers and suppliers may also negatively affect our financial results by decreasing our revenues and increasing our risk of credit-related losses. the global economic downturn has created a widespread slowdown in capital investment, manufacturing, and demand for consumer products particularly in our disk-drive and solar markets. in response, our suppliers have or may increase their prices or reduce their output. some of our customers (including systems integrators) have, and may continue to, defer, reduce or cease to place orders for our products, or may delay or default on their payment obligations, reducing our revenues or increasing our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. 10 table of contents our inability to accurately forecast, or react quickly and adequately to increases or decreases in demand for our products could harm our business and results of operations. intelligent automation systems using our products can range in price from $25,000 to $500,000. accordingly, our success depends upon the capital expenditure budgets of our customers, which tend to be cyclical. the economic downturn resulted in cutbacks in capital spending in some of our major markets, and our business has been, and may continue to be, negatively affected. industry downturns have been characterized by reduced demand for devices and equipment, production over-capacity, and accelerated declines in average selling prices. during periods of declining demand, we have implemented several worldwide restructuring programs to realign our business and lower our expenses. however, our ability to reduce expenses is limited by our need to retain and motivate key employees, and by our need for continued investment in product engineering, research and development. we also have extensive ongoing customer service and support requirements, must maintain some inventory to satisfy potential customer commitments, and have certain fixed administrative costs. further, our failure to effectively manage product transitions or accurately forecast customer demand, in terms of both volume and configuration, may lead to an increased risk of excess or obsolete inventory. we also must maintain the ability to quickly increase our manufacturing capacity upon an increase in orders or general upturn in any of our markets. typically, upturns in markets such as disk drive or electronics have been characterized by abrupt demand increases, and production under-capacity. we must be able to ramp up in times of increased demand and hire sufficiently to service our customers. our international operations and reliance on foreign suppliers subject us to risks outside of our control that may harm our operating results. we have significant and expanding operations outside the united states, including a presence in asia. a substantial majority of our revenue is derived from non-u.s. sales: international sales represented 74% and 72% of revenues for fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, respectively. we expect that revenue from our international sales and operations will continue to be a significant portion of our total revenue. we also purchase some critical components from foreign suppliers. as a result, our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international sales, purchases, and operations, including: • difficulties ensuring compliance with applicable regulatory regimes; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • political, military, and economic instability or turmoil; • restrictive governmental actions, such as tariff regulations and other trade barriers; • transportation costs and delays; • local rules favoring local business and organized labor; • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivables from foreign jurisdictions; • potentially adverse tax rates and tax treatment of our intercompany transactions; and • difficulty obtaining appropriate personnel. we face exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies. additionally, we make foreign currency-denominated purchases from some suppliers, and thus remain subject to the transaction exposures that arise from foreign exchange movements between the date that the transactions are recorded and the date cash is paid. continued fluctuations in foreign currencies could negatively impact us. as we are subject to the regulatory regimes of numerous governments, we must ensure that our operations comply with all applicable requirements, including changing requirements affecting business and tax audits by foreign authorities. it is not possible to assess the associated amount of financial or operational exposure at this time. in 2011, we opened a facility in shanghai, china to capitalize on significant opportunities presented by the asian markets. we face all the risks inherent in operating in a foreign emerging market where we have not previously operated a facility. our china-based activities are subject to greater political, regulatory, legal and economic risks than those faced by other operations. there can be no assurance that our operations in china will be successful. 11 table of contents the long sales cycle, customer evaluation and implementation processes of our products may increase the costs of securing sales and reduce the predictability of our earnings. our products are technologically complex, and prospective customers generally must commit significant resources to test and evaluate performance, and to install and integrate our products into larger systems. as a result, our sales process is often subject to evaluation and approval delays typically associated with large capital expenditures. the sales cycles for our products often last for months or years, and orders expected in one quarter may shift to another or be canceled because of a customer's budgetary constraints or internal acceptance reviews. longer sales cycles require us to invest significant resources in attempting to secure sales that may not be realized in the short term, and therefore may delay or prevent revenue generation. the time required for our customers to incorporate our product into their system can also vary significantly, which further complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our operating results. our failure to keep up with rapid technological change and new product development would harm our ability to compete. the intelligent automation industry is characterized by rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. we must anticipate trends in our customers’ industries and develop products before our customers’ products are commercialized, because many of our products are used by our customers to develop, manufacture, and test their own products. if we do not accurately predict our customers’ needs, we may invest substantial development resources in products that do not achieve broad market acceptance. further, if we are unable to develop new and enhanced products meeting customers’ changing technical specifications on a timely and cost-effective basis, our products may become uncompetitive or obsolete. we also must make decisions about whether or not to develop and offer products to a given market, and if our judgment of that market is incorrect, our business could be harmed. the market for intelligent automation products is intensely competitive, which may make it difficult to grow our business or to maintain or enhance our profitability. our competitors include robot, motion control, machine vision, and simulation software and packaging companies, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do. our competitors in the robot market also include integrated manufacturers that produce robotics equipment for internal use, and also compete with our products for sales to other customers. because they can generate substantial unit volumes to satisfy internal demand, these competitors may have greater pricing flexibility. during the recent economic downturn, we experienced aggressive price reductions and other accommodations by our competitors, in addition to increased price sensitivity by our customers. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for our products are: • product features, functionality, and ease of use; • price; • brand quality perception; • customer service; and • timeliness, predictability, and reliability of delivery. increased competitive pressure and declining barriers to market entry could result in a loss of sales or market share or force us to lower prices. failure to enhance our brand would impair our ability to increase or maintain our customer base, and we may not be able to compete successfully in the future. the growth of our business depends upon the successful development and commercial acceptance of our new products. our failure to develop, manufacture, and sell new products in quantities sufficient to offset a decline in revenue from existing products or to successfully manage product and related inventory transitions could harm our business. we depend upon a variety of factors to ensure that our new and enhanced products are successfully commercialized, including timely and efficient completion of design and development, implementation of manufacturing processes, and effective sales, marketing, and customer service. because of the complexity of our products, significant delays may occur in introducing new products, or between a product’s initial introduction and volume production. the development and commercialization of new products involve many difficulties, including: • identifying new product opportunities; 12 table of contents • retaining and hiring appropriate research and development personnel; • determining the product’s technical specifications; • successfully completing the development process; • successfully marketing the new product and achieving customer acceptance; • managing inventory levels; and • additional customer service and warranty costs associated with supporting new product introductions or affecting subsequent field upgrades. we must expend significant financial and management resources to develop new products. we cannot assure that we will receive meaningful revenue from these investments. if we are unable to continue to successfully develop new products in response to customer requirements or technological changes, or our new products are not commercially successful, our business may be harmed. our acquisitions of mobilerobots and inmotx expanded our business with new technologies and solutions for additional markets commencing in fiscal 2011, including our adept pac™ solutions for complex food processing and packaging applications, and mobile robotic systems, control and software for autonomous robot and agv applications. we had little or no experience in these markets prior to the completion of these acquisitions and are unable to accurately forecast the future commercial acceptance of these product lines. in response to a decline in sales across our business beginning at the end of fiscal 2012, we have focused our efforts on our core competencies and sources of revenue generation and have invested fewer resources in new businesses which take longer to build revenue. in connection with our restructuring, we have focused on our core and mobile businesses and we have also altered our sales model for our packaging business to a channel focus. this may negatively impact the growth of our new businesses and revenue potentially earned from related new products. we generally have no long-term customer contracts and our backlog cannot be relied upon as a future indicator of sales. we generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers, and existing contracts and purchase commitments may be canceled under certain circumstances. as a result, we are exposed to competitive price pressures on every order, and our agreements with customers do not provide assurance of future sales. our customers are not required to make minimum purchases and may cease purchasing our products at any time without penalty. our backlog should not be relied on as a measure of anticipated demand or future revenue, because the orders constituting our backlog may be subject to changes in delivery schedules or cancellation without significant penalty to the customer. any reductions, cancellations or deferrals in customer orders would negatively impact our business. we market and sell our products primarily through an indirect channel comprised of third-party resellers not under our control. we believe that our ability to sell products to systems integrators and oems will continue to be important to our success. however, our relationships with these partners are generally not exclusive, and we cannot control the timing or amount of their procurement or marketing of our products. some systems integrators and oems who sell our products also sell products of our competitors. if they choose to promote competing products or simply fail to market our products successfully, our revenue could decrease. as we enter new geographic and applications markets, we must locate and establish relationships with systems integrators and oems to assist us in building sales in those markets. because of product integration expenses and the large amount of training required, significant time and resources may be required to establish a profitable relationship with a systems integrator or oem. we may not be successful in establishing or maintaining an effective relationship with new systems integrators or oems, which would adversely affect our business. our acquisitions of mobilerobots and inmotx and any future acquisitions may disrupt our business and harm our operating results. in fiscal 2010 and 2011, respectively, we acquired mobilerobots and inmotx, and we may acquire other businesses and technologies to further our strategic objectives. we had no prior experience with the autonomous robot and automated guided vehicle technologies market of mobilerobots and the gripping technology offered by inmotx. these new businesses have required investment to introduce new products to customers. to date, these new businesses have not produced revenues sufficient to fund these investments and to make these businesses successful. we are unable to predict the market acceptance of 13 table of contents any new additions to our business. our acquisitions present risks, including: • significant expenditures of cash and dilutive stock issuances; • difficulties in integrating product offerings, operations, or workforce; • difficulties in establishing and maintaining effective uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • the loss of key personnel or customers from either our current business or the acquired company’s business; • adverse effects on existing supplier relationships; • disruptions of our on-going businesses and diversion of resources and management's attention; • difficulties in realizing our financial and strategic objectives for the acquired business; • negative impact on results of operations due to goodwill impairment write-offs, amortization of intangible assets other than goodwill, or assumption of anticipated liabilities; • risks of entering new markets, geographic areas, and distribution channels in which we have limited or no previous experience; and • assumption of unanticipated liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the acquired company’s product. the risks above could significantly harm our business. the failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or adequately address these risks could materially harm our financial results. our products could have unknown defects which may give rise to claims against us, increase our expenses, or harm our reputation. our products and enhancements are complex and, despite testing, may contain defects, errors or performance problems. any defects or errors could result in expensive and time-consuming design modifications or warranty charges, harmed customer relationships, and loss of market share. newly released products, which have not seen as much use and testing in the marketplace as older products, are more susceptible to undetected defects. as we aim to generate increasing revenues from sales of recently released products, the negative impact on our business resulting from defects in such products could be significant. the existence of any defects, errors, or failures in our products could also lead to product liability claims against us, our channel partners, or our customers. although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not adequately cover future claims. any claim could result in significant legal defense costs, divert resources, harm our reputation, and damage our business. our failure to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology may impair our competitive advantage. our success depends in part upon protecting our proprietary technology and trade secrets. we primarily rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret protection, licenses, and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights, but have not always sought patent, registration, or similar protection on our technology where it may have been available. the steps we have taken may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property or to provide us with any commercial advantage. the process of obtaining patent protection can be time consuming and costly, and our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to uncertainty and litigation risks. we may face costly intellectual property infringement claims. allegations of intellectual property infringement by our products may arise and could include claims against us, our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers. because there are numerous patents in the automation industry, it is not always practicable to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes intellectual property rights. as a result, we may be forced to respond to intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights. regardless of merit, these claims could consume management time, result in costly litigation, or cause product shipment delays. in settling these claims, we may be required to cease selling products or services, pay damages, redesign the challenged technology, or enter into 14 table of contents unfavorable royalty or licensing agreements. any of these could seriously harm our business. information security breaches or business system disruptions may adversely affect our business. we rely on our information technology infrastructure and management information systems to run our business. although we take measures to protect our information assets, our security measures may not detect or prevent every attempted breach. we may be subject to information security breaches caused by, among other things, illegal hacking, computer viruses, or acts of vandalism or terrorism. a breach could result in an interruption in our operations, unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information, unauthorized release of customer or employee data, violation of privacy or other laws, and exposure to litigation. any such breach could materially harm our business and operating results. our investments in certain new markets subject us to increased regulation and potential product liability, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in these markets or that risks related to these industries will not have an adverse effect on our business. our systems and controls are sold in a variety of industries, including semiconductor, packaging and medical, among others. we have increased our strategic focus on sales for certain applications that are more highly regulated, including the automation of repetitive operations in diagnostic and pharmaceutical labs. as we seek sales in the medical and food packaging industries, we must ensure that our products and systems comply with applicable regulatory requirements. this will increase our costs and our failure to comply with these requirements could damage our ability to sell our products or subject us to regulatory actions or fines. our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could harm our business. we are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances used in the manufacturing and assembly of our products. we believe that we are in compliance with material environmental regulations and have all necessary environmental permits. however, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in penalties or liabilities, and could curtail our operations. our success depends on our continuing ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly-qualified personnel. our inability to attract, train, motivate, and retain qualified management, sales, and technical personnel could adversely affect our ability to design, manufacture, market and sell our support and products, and to meet our requirements as a public company. many companies with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we do. in addition, in making employment decisions in the technology industry, job candidates often consider the value of the equity they receive in connection with their employment. therefore, volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain technical personnel, which could harm our business. compliance with recently passed health care legislation and potential increases in the cost of providing health care plans to our employees may adversely affect our business. the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the "acts") became law in march 2010. the acts contain provisions that will affect employer-sponsored health care plans, but it remains uncertain whether and by how much the acts will increase health care costs of employers. significant annual increases in the cost of providing employee health coverage may adversely affect our business and results of operations. if we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business could be materially and adversely affected. under the sarbanes-oxley act, our management must establish, maintain and make certain assessments and certifications regarding our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. we have dedicated significant resources to comply with these requirements, including significant actions to develop, evaluate, and test our internal controls, but cannot provide absolute assurances. a failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in inaccurate or late reporting of our financial results, an investigation by regulatory authorities, a loss of investor confidence, a decrease in the trading price of our common stock and exposure to costly litigation or regulatory proceedings. 15 table of contents our preferred stock and the concentration of our equity ownership among few stockholders could adversely affect the liquidity and market price of our securities, and may permit a few stockholders to influence the results of stockholder decisions. we have 10,938,272 shares of common stock and 8,000 shares of redeemable convertible preferred stock outstanding as of september 16, 2013. a small number of holders own the substantial majority of our outstanding equity. these securities are generally freely tradable or subject to registration statements, permitting their sale with little or no restriction. the potential sale of these securities creates meaningful overhang on the market for our securities and sales by any of these large holders would increase the current volatility of our common stock, the market price of which is affected by our low trading volume. this may affect the trading market for our stock, and could control the results of matters requiring stockholder approval, which may delay or prevent a change of control or negatively affect our stock price. our preferred stock is convertible into common stock at the option of the holder and upon certain mandatory conversion events and provides other rights of the holders to approve certain matters, including additional indebtedness, liens, dilutive or senior securities issuance or extraordinary transactions. these approval rights could delay or prevent a change of control or other corporate actions and negatively affect our stock price. stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests and the market price of our common stock may be depressed by future issuances of additional shares of our equity securities. we issued 920,000 shares of our common stock in a public offering in june 2012 and 8,000 shares of redeemable convertible preferred stock in september 2012. we may issue additional common or preferred stock or other equity securities for various reasons, including to finance our operations, fund acquisitions or hire or retain employees. issuances of our equity securities, or the perception that such issuances may occur, could dilute the interests of our stockholders and have a material negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. the rights and preferences of the preferred stock may decrease the perceived value, and thus the trading price, of our common stock. the preferred stock is convertible at the holder's option and the issuance of common stock upon such conversion could require us to issue a significant number of shares of our common stock and dilute existing shareholders. at june 30, 2013, options to purchase approximately 844,000 shares of our common stock were outstanding under our equity compensation plans, and approximately an additional 1,111,000 shares of common stock were reserved for future grant and issuance under such plans, a substantial majority of which was granted as part of our performance option program in august 2013. we can also issue shares under our employee stock purchase plan, which had approximately 365,000 shares available for issuance at june 30, 2013. shares of common stock issued under these plans are generally freely tradable in the public market, subject to certain limitations applicable to our affiliates. option exercises and employee stock purchase plan purchases could increase the number of common shares outstanding and could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock, due to our low trading volume. our use of equity to raise additional financing or as consideration in connection with a future acquisition or other transaction could also result in the dilution of our stockholders’ equity interest. our stock price may fluctuate widely, making resale of our common stock difficult. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially. our stock price may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to factors including: • fluctuating operating results; • our liquidity needs and constraints; • our restructuring activities and changes in management and other personnel; • changes in our business focus and operational organization; • our limited public float and the limited trading volume of our common stock on nasdaq; • the business environment, including the operating results and stock prices of companies in the industries we serve; • general conditions in the intelligent automation and packaging industries; • the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing by us or our competitors; • litigation or claims relating to the volatility of our common stock, internal controls, proprietary rights or other matters; 16 table of contents • developments in the financial markets; and • perceived dilution from stock issuances in financing or acquisition transactions. the effects of new regulations relating to conflict minerals may adversely affect our business. in august 2012, the sec adopted new requirements applicable to companies manufacturing or contracting for the manufacture of products which require specific minerals, known as conflict minerals. such companies will have to disclose annually whether they used any conflict minerals originating from the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries. if a company uses conflict minerals from those countries, additional requirements will be triggered. we must determine how we are affected by these new requirements. we may face increased costs of regulatory compliance, potential risks to our reputation, difficulty satisfying any customers that insist on conflict-free products and harm to our business. item 1b. unresolved