item 1a. risk factors our operating results fluctuate due to factors that are difficult to forecast, are often out of our control, and can be volatile. our past operating results may not be accurate indicators of future performance, and you should not rely on such results to predict our future performance. our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and could fluctuate in the future. factors that may contribute to fluctuations include:     •   changes in aggregate capital spending, cyclicality and other economic conditions, or domestic and international demand in the industries we serve;     •   our ability to effectively manage our working capital;     •   changes in our products’ market acceptance or demand;     •   new products or changes in pricing, by us, our distribution channels, or our competitors;     •   pricing and availability of components and raw materials;     •   changes in our product mix from quarter to quarter affecting our gross margins;     •   our failure to manufacture a sufficient volume of products in a timely and cost-effective manner;     •   our inability to adjust certain fixed costs and expenses for changes in demand;     •   currency exchange rate fluctuations;     •   shifts in geographic concentration of our sales or supply;     •   seasonal fluctuations in demand and our revenue;     •   our ability to expand our product offerings; and     •   extraordinary events such as litigation, claims or mergers and acquisitions. we generally recognize revenues upon shipment, or in certain cases upon receipt by customers. as a result, our net revenues and results of operations are affected by the timing of orders received and shipped. a significant percentage of our shipments occur in the last month of each quarter. this can make it difficult to reliably forecast the demand level for our products for a particular quarter. further, an order cancellation, reduction or delay in shipments near the end of a fiscal period may cause sales to fall below expectations and harm our operating results for that period. we have and may also enter into agreements requiring us to accept certain orders meeting agreed criteria and to hold specified levels of inventory available. to address these difficulties, we periodically stock inventory levels of completed robots, machine controllers and certain strategic components. as a result, our operating results vary, our stock price is volatile, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. we have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow in the past, and have limited cash resources, which could impair our ability to invest in growth and adversely affect our operations. we have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow, and if our projected revenue fails to increase or our expenses exceed current expectations, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, adequately respond to competitive pressures or fully execute our business plan. we have limited cash resources, and though we are under no restrictions at this time regarding transferring cash from our foreign operations to our u.s. operations, regulatory restrictions impeding our ability to transfer foreign cash reserves may occur in the future, and we may have limited access to a portion of those existing cash balances. we depend on our credit facility and funds generated from operating activities to meet our operating requirements and execute our growth plan. our credit facility subjects us to certain financial and operating covenants, the failure of which would prevent us from borrowing. if we are unable to obtain and maintain sufficient capital on favorable terms, it could undermine our flexibility to pursue additional expansion opportunities and could limit the working capital available to our business, harming our operating results.   13 table of contents we depend on outsourced manufacturing and information technology capabilities and single source suppliers, and if we experience disruptions in this supply or prices increase, our business may suffer. we outsource most of our manufacturing functions, and obtain many key components, materials and mechanical sub-systems from sole or single source suppliers. we have limited contracts or guaranteed supply arrangements with these suppliers, and the lack of alternate sources and lengthy qualification process for replacement suppliers involves significant risks. these risks include whether or not new suppliers will provide adequate quantities with sufficient quality on a timely basis, and the risk that supplier pricing may be higher than anticipated. if we are unable to obtain necessary items on a timely basis, at acceptable prices, and of sufficient quality, we could lose current or future business. in the past, we have experienced quality control or specification problems with certain components provided by sole source suppliers, and have had to design around the particular flawed items. any quality issues could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost sales, or increased warranty costs, and could harm our results of operations. any significant price increase or disruption of our supply sources could interrupt our product shipments, require reengineering, and damage customer relationships. if our suppliers cease manufacturing components that we require, we may need to purchase a significant amount of inventory that could lead to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. finally, if we incorrectly forecast product mix for a particular period and we are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of any components or mechanical sub-systems on a timely and cost-effective basis due to long procurement lead times, our business could be substantially impaired. some of our suppliers are in japan. while these suppliers are not in the areas directly affected by recent disasters, they could have business continuity issues or alter pricing based upon the situation of their suppliers and the japanese economy, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operations. global economic conditions currently affecting our customers and suppliers may also negatively affect our financial results by decreasing our revenues and increasing our risk of credit-related losses. the global economic downturn created a widespread slowdown in capital investment, manufacturing, and demand for consumer products particularly in our disk-drive and solar markets. in response, our suppliers have or may increase their prices or reduce their output. some of our customers (including systems integrators) have, and may continue to defer, reduce or cease to place orders for our products, or may delay or default on their payment obligations, reducing our revenues or margins or increasing our credit losses, which would negatively affect our results of operations. our inability to accurately forecast, or react quickly and adequately to increases or decreases in demand for our products could harm our business and results of operations. intelligent automation systems using our products can range in price from $25,000 to $500,000. accordingly, our success directly depends upon the capital expenditure budgets of our customers, which tend to be cyclical. the economic downturn resulted in cutbacks in capital spending in some of our major markets, and our business has been, and may continue to be, directly and negatively impacted. industry downturns have been characterized by reduced demand for devices and equipment, production over-capacity, and accelerated declines in average selling prices. during periods of declining demand, we have implemented several worldwide restructuring programs to realign our business and lower our expenses accordingly. however, our ability to reduce expenses is limited by our need to retain and motivate key employees, and by our need for continued investment in product engineering, research and development. we also have extensive ongoing customer service and support requirements and must maintain a certain level of inventory to satisfy potential customer commitments, as well as administrative costs that cannot easily be reduced. further, our failure to effectively manage product transitions or accurately forecast customer demand, in terms of both volume and configuration, may lead to an increased risk of excess or obsolete inventory. we also must be able to maintain the ability to quickly increase our manufacturing capacity upon an increase in orders or general upturn in any of our markets. typically, upturns in markets such as disk drive or electronics   14 table of contents have been characterized by abrupt demand increases, and production under-capacity. we must be able to ramp up in times of increased demand and hire sufficiently to service our customers, and our inability to do so could cause current or future customers to place orders with our competitors instead. our international operations and reliance on foreign suppliers subject us to risks outside of our control that may harm our operating results. we have significant and expanding operations outside the united states, including new operations in denmark with the acquisition of inmotx and a new shanghai facility. additionally, a substantial majority of our revenue is derived from non-u.s. sales: international sales represented 71% and 77% of revenues for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. we expect that revenue from our international sales and operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. we also purchase some critical components from, and increasingly rely upon, foreign suppliers. as a result, our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international sales, purchases, and operations which include:     •   difficulties coordinating operations subject to differing regulatory regimes;     •   unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;     •   political, military, and economic instability or turmoil and extraordinary disruptions;     •   restrictive governmental actions, such as tariff regulations and other trade barriers;     •   transportation costs and delays;     •   stringent local jurisdictional requirements favoring local business and organized labor considerations;     •   longer payment cycles and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivables from foreign jurisdictions;     •   potentially adverse tax rates and consequences; and     •   difficulty in obtaining appropriate personnel. we face exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies. additionally, we make foreign currency-denominated purchases from some foreign suppliers, and thus remain subject to the transaction exposures that arise from foreign exchange movements between the date that the transactions are recorded and the date cash is paid. continued fluctuations in foreign currencies could negatively impact our business. in order to protect our financial performance from the adverse effects of foreign currency fluctuation, we are currently developing a hedging strategy to manage this risk. in early 2011, we opened a facility in shanghai, china to capitalize on significant opportunities presented by the asian markets. we face all the risks inherent in operating in a foreign emerging market where we have not previously operated a facility. our china-based activities are subject to greater political, regulatory, legal and economic risks than those faced by other operations. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our expansion in china.   15 table of contents the long sales cycle, customer evaluation and implementation processes of our products may increase the costs of securing sales and reduce the predictability of our earnings. our products are technologically complex, and prospective customers generally must commit significant resources to test and evaluate performance, and to install and integrate our products into larger systems. as a result, our sales process is often subject to the evaluation and approval delays that are typically associated with large capital expenditures. the sales cycles for our products often last for many months or even years, and orders expected in one quarter may shift to another or be cancelled entirely because of customers’ budgetary constraints or internal acceptance reviews. longer sales cycles require us to invest significant resources in attempting to secure sales that may not be realized in the short term, and therefore may delay or prevent revenue generation. the time required for our customers to incorporate our product into their system can also vary significantly, which further complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our operating results. our failure to keep up with rapid technological change and new product development would harm our ability to compete. the intelligent automation industry is characterized by rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. we must anticipate trends in our customers’ industries and develop products before our customers’ products are commercialized, because many of our products are used by our customers to develop, manufacture, and test their own products. if we do not accurately predict our customers’ needs, we may invest substantial development resources in products that may not achieve broad market acceptance. further, if we are unable to develop new and enhanced products meeting customers’ changing technical specifications on a timely and cost-effective basis, our products may become uncompetitive or obsolete. we also must make decisions about whether or not to develop and offer products to a given market, and if our judgment of that market is incorrect, our business could be harmed. the market for intelligent automation products is intensely competitive, which may make it difficult to grow our business or to maintain or enhance our profitability. our competitors include robot, motion control, machine vision, and simulation software and packaging companies, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do. our competitors in the robot market also include integrated manufacturers that produce robotics equipment for internal use, and also compete with our products for sales to other customers. because they can generate substantial unit volumes to satisfy internal demand, these competitors may have greater pricing flexibility. during the recent economic downturn, we have experienced aggressive price reductions and other accommodations by our competitors, in addition to increased price sensitivity by our customers. we believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for our products are:     •   product features, functionality, and ease of use;     •   price;     •   brand quality perception;     •   customer service; and     •   timeliness, predictability, and reliability of delivery. increased competitive pressure and declining barriers to market entry could result in a loss of sales or market share or force us to lower prices. failure to enhance our brand would impair our ability to increase or maintain our customer base, and we may not be able to compete successfully in the future.   16 table of contents the growth of our business depends upon the development and successful commercial acceptance of our new products. our failure to develop, manufacture, and sell new products in quantities sufficient to offset a decline in revenue from existing products or to successfully manage product and related inventory transitions could harm our business. we depend upon a variety of factors to ensure that our new and enhanced products are successfully commercialized, including timely and efficient completion of design and development, implementation of manufacturing processes, and effective sales, marketing, and customer service. because of the complexity of our products, significant delays may occur in introducing new products, or between a product’s initial introduction and volume production. the development and commercialization of new products involve many difficulties, including:     •   identification of new product opportunities;     •   retention and hiring of appropriate research and development personnel;     •   determination of the product’s technical specifications;     •   successful completion of the development process;     •   successful marketing of the new product and achieving customer acceptance;     •   managing inventory levels; and     •   additional customer service and warranty costs associated with supporting new product introductions and/or effecting subsequent potential field upgrades. we must expend significant financial and management resources to develop new products. we cannot assure that we will receive meaningful revenue from these investments. if we are unable to continue to successfully develop new products in response to customer requirements or technological changes, or our new products are not commercially successful, our business may be harmed. our acquisitions of mobilerobots and inmotx have expanded our business with new technologies and solutions for additional markets, including our octomation solutions for complex food processing and packaging applications, and mobile robotic systems, control and software for autonomous robot and agv applications. we have little or no prior experience in these markets and are unable to forecast the future commercial acceptance of these additional product lines. we generally have no long-term customer contracts and our backlog cannot be relied upon as a future indicator of sales. we generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers, and existing contracts and purchase commitments may be cancelled under certain circumstances. as a result, we are exposed to competitive price pressures on every order, and our agreements with customers do not provide assurance of future sales. our customers are not required to make minimum purchases and may cease purchasing our products at any time without penalty. our backlog should not be relied on as a measure of anticipated demand or future revenue, because the orders constituting our backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules and may be subject to cancellation without significant penalty to the customer. any reductions, cancellations or deferrals in customer orders would negatively impact us. we market and sell our products primarily through an indirect channel comprised of third-party resellers not under our control. we believe that our ability to sell products to systems integrators and oems will continue to be important to our success. however, our relationships with these partners are generally not exclusive, and we cannot control the timing or amount of their procurement or marketing of our products. some systems integrators and oems who   17 table of contents sell our products also sell products of our competitors. if they choose to promote competing products or simply fail to market our products successfully, our revenue could decrease. as we enter new geographic and applications markets, we must locate and establish relationships with systems integrators and oems to assist us in building sales in those markets. because of product integration expenses and the large amount of training required, significant time and resources may be required to establish a profitable relationship with a systems integrator or oem. we may not be successful in establishing or maintaining an effective relationship with new systems integrators or oems, which would adversely affect our business. our acquisitions of mobilerobots and inmotx and any future acquisitions may disrupt our business and harm our operating results. in fiscal 2010 and 2011, respectively, we acquired mobilerobots, and inmotx and we may acquire other businesses and technologies to further our strategic objectives. we had no prior experience with the autonomous robot and automated guided vehicle technologies market of mobilerobots and our gripping technology of the octomation products provides a new focus to our food packaging business. we are unable to predict the market acceptance of these additions. our acquisitions present risks, including:     •   significant expenditures of cash and dilutive stock issuances;     •   difficulties in integrating the product offerings, operations, or workforce;     •   difficulties in establishing and maintaining effective uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies;     •   the loss of key personnel or customers from either our current business or the acquired company’s business;     •   adverse effects on existing relationships with suppliers;     •   disruptions of our on-going businesses and diversion of our existing resources;     •   difficulties in realizing our financial and strategic objectives of the acquired business;     •   negative impact on results of operations due to goodwill impairment write-offs, amortization of intangible assets other than goodwill, or assumption of anticipated liabilities;     •   risks of entering new markets in which we have limited or no previous experience;     •   entering geographic areas or distribution channels with no prior experience;     •   assumption of unanticipated liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the acquired company’s product; and     •   diversion of management attention. the risks above could significantly harm our business. the failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or adequately address these risks could materially harm our financial results. our products could have unknown defects which may give rise to claims against us, increase our expenses, or harm our reputation. our products are complex and despite testing, our products or enhancements may contain defects, errors or performance problems. any defects or errors could result in expensive and time-consuming design modifications or warranty charges, harm customer relationships, and result in loss of market share. we aim to generate increasing amounts of revenue from sales of recently released products. as a result, the negative impact on our business resulting from defects in such products could be significant.   18 table of contents the existence of any defects, errors, or failures in our products could also lead to product liability claims against us, our channel partners, or against our customers. although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. any claim could result in significant legal defense costs, divert resources, harm our reputation, and negatively impact us. our failure to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology may impair our competitive advantage. our success depends in part upon protecting our proprietary technology and trade secrets. we primarily rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret protection, licenses, and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights, but have not always sought patent, registration, or similar protection on our technology where it may have been available. the steps we have taken may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property or to provide us with any commercial advantage. the process of obtaining patent protection can be time consuming and costly, and our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to uncertainty and litigation risks. we may face costly intellectual property infringement claims. allegations of intellectual property infringement by our products may arise and could include claims against us, our manufacturers, our suppliers, or even our customers. because there are numerous patents in the automation industry, it is not always practicable to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes intellectual property rights. as a result, we may be forced to respond to intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights. regardless of merit, these claims could consume management time, result in costly litigation, or cause product shipment delays. in settling these claims, we may be required to cease selling products or services, pay damages, redesign the challenged technology, or enter into unfavorable royalty or licensing agreements. any of these could seriously harm our business. our investments in certain new markets subject us to increased regulation and potential product liability, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in these markets or that risks related to these industries will not have an adverse effect on our business. our systems and controls are sold in a variety of industries, including solar, packaging and medical, among others. our penetration of the packaging market for food and certain other regulated items where we see potential revenue growth also requires additional costs to fulfill necessary certification and compliance processes. we have increased our strategic focus on sales for certain applications that are highly regulated, including the automation of repetitive operations in diagnostic and pharmaceutical labs. as we start to engage in certain activities in the medical industry, we must ensure that our products and systems comply with various regulatory requirements relevant to medical applications. this will increase costs necessary to operate our business, and our failure to comply with these requirements could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products or subject us to regulatory actions or fines. our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could harm our business. we are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances used in the manufacturing and assembly of our products. we believe that we are in compliance with material environmental regulations and have all necessary environmental permits. however, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in penalties or liabilities, and could curtail our operations. our success depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly-qualified personnel. our inability to attract, train, motivate, and retain qualified management, sales, and technical personnel could adversely affect our ability to design, manufacture, market, sell our support and our products, and to meet our   19 table of contents requirements as a public company. many companies with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we do. in addition, in making employment decisions in the technology industry, job candidates often consider the value of the equity they receive in connection with their employment. therefore, volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain technical personnel, which could harm our business. if we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business could be materially and adversely affected. under the sarbanes-oxley act, our management must establish, maintain and make certain assessments and certifications regarding our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. we have dedicated significant resources to our efforts to comply with these requirements, including significant actions to develop, evaluate, and test our internal controls but cannot provide absolute assurances. a failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in inaccurate or late reporting of our financial results, an investigation by regulatory authorities, a loss of investor confidence, a decrease in the trading price of our common stock and could expose us to costly litigation or regulatory proceedings. our restructuring efforts may not be effective, might have unintended consequences, and could negatively impact our business. from time to time, we have restructured our operations in response to changes in the economic environment, our industry and demand. to lower our operating costs during fiscal 2011, we implemented organizational improvements designed to reduce our ongoing costs, which included office consolidation, reorganization and streamlining of our north american operations, and incurred related restructuring expenses. despite our efforts to structure the company and business to operate in a cost-effective manner while adequately facing competitive pressures and fulfilling customer needs, some cost-cutting measures could have unexpected negative consequences. while our restructuring efforts reduced our costs, we cannot be certain that all restructuring efforts will be successful, or that we will not be required to implement additional restructuring activities in the future. if we are unable to structure our operations effectively or if we face costly termination claims, our operations and prospects could be harmed. the concentration of our equity ownership among few stockholders could adversely affect the liquidity and market price of our securities, and may permit a few stockholders to influence the results of stockholder decisions. we have approximately 9,740,709 shares of common stock outstanding as of august 29, 2011. a small number of holders beneficially own a substantial portion of our outstanding equity. these securities are generally freely tradable or subject to registration statements permitting their sale with little or no restriction. this may affect the trading market for our stock, and could control the results of matters requiring stockholder approval, which may delay or prevent a change of control or negatively affect our stock price. at june 30, 2011, options to purchase approximately 1,332,000 shares of our common stock were outstanding under our equity compensation plans, and approximately an additional 439,000 shares of common stock were reserved for future grant and issuance under such plans. we can also issue shares under our employee stock purchase plan, which had approximately 488,000 shares available for issuance at june 30, 2011. shares of common stock issued under these plans are generally freely tradable in the public market, subject to certain limitations applicable to our affiliates. option exercises and employee stock purchase plan purchases could increase the number of common shares outstanding and could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock, due to our low trading volume. we have also issued more than one million shares of common stock, some of which is subject to risk of forfeitures by the holders thereof, in connection with our acquisitions of mobilerobots and inmotx. our use of equity to raise additional financing or as consideration in connection with a future acquisition or other transaction could also result in the dilution of our stockholders’ equity interest.   20 table of contents our stock price may fluctuate widely, making resale of our common stock difficult. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially. our stock price may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to factors including:     •   fluctuations in operating results;     •   our liquidity needs and constraints;     •   the effectiveness of cost control measures;     •   changes in our business focus and operational organization;     •   our restructuring activities and changes in management and other personnel;     •   our limited public float and the limited trading volume of our common stock on nasdaq;     •   the business environment, including the operating results and stock prices of companies in the industries we serve;     •   general conditions in the intelligent automation and packaging industries;     •   the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing by us or our competitors;     •   litigation or claims relating to the volatility of our common stock, internal controls, proprietary rights or other matters;     •   developments in the financial markets; and     •   perceived dilution from stock issuances in financing or acquisition transactions.   item 1b. unresolved