item 1a.    risk factors atk is subject to a number of risks, including those related to being a u.s. government contractor and those related to domestic and international commercial sales. the material risks facing atk are discussed below. atk's business could be adversely impacted by reductions or changes in nasa or u.s. government military spending. 8 as a substantial portion of atk's sales are to the u.s. government and its prime contractors, atk depends heavily on the contracts underlying these programs. significant portions of atk's sales come from a small number of contracts. atk's top five contracts, all of which are contracts with the u.s. government, accounted for approximately 21% of fiscal 2014 sales. the loss or significant reduction of a material program in which atk participates could have a material adverse effect on atk's operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. atk's small-caliber ammunition operations for the u.s. military and u.s. allies are conducted at the lake city army ammunition plant ("lcaap" or "lake city") in independence, missouri. lake city is the army's principal small-caliber ammunition production facility and is the primary supplier of the u.s. military's small-caliber ammunition needs. atk took over operation of this facility on april 1, 2000 and is responsible for the operation and management, including leasing excess space to third parties in the private sector. on september 28, 2012, atk was notified by the u.s. army that it was selected for both the production of ammunition and continued operation and maintenance of the lake city army ammunition plant (“lcaap”). the production contract runs through september 2019 and the facility contract runs through september 2020, with an option to extend the contract to 2023. due to the competition for the contract, atk has experienced a lower profit rate in the small caliber systems division as we implemented the new contract. future levels of government spending cannot be predicted with certainty and thus atk production under this contract cannot be predicted with certainty. the government budget structure remains constrained by the 2011 budget control act which initially reduced the dod topline budget by approximately $490 billion over 10 years starting in fiscal year 2012. in january 2013, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 was enacted, triggering further defense budget cuts of approximately $50 billion per year (or sequestration) beginning in march 2013. until recently, congress and the administration had been unable to reach a broader fiscal agreement that would amend the budget control act and avoid the impacts of sequestration. for gfy13, the first round of sequestration was triggered, reducing dod accounts by $37 billion. the nasa budget was under similar sequestration pressure but had greater flexibility to manage the reductions across the portfolio and decided to preserve funding for key priorities such as the space launch system ("sls"). in gfy14, the administration faced the threat of an additional year of sequestration and deeper cuts requiring an additional reduction of $20 billion from the defense topline budget. the budget control act amendment adopted in december 2013 provided some relief to the deeper cuts required under sequestration in gfy14 and gfy15. for defense spending, the agreement effectively holds flat the topline budget at $499 billion for both gfy14 and gy15, providing over $30 billion in sequestration relief. for nasa, similar relief provided for non-defense discretionary spending should allow the nasa budget to remain flat over the same period at approximately $17.5 billion annually. on january 17, 2014, congress approved, and the president signed, the omnibus appropriations act replacing the continuing resolution for the remainder of gfy14 and removing the threat of future government shutdowns. consistent with the budget deal, the omnibus appropriations act funds the dod at $499 billion and replaces the across-the-board sequestration cuts with specific reductions across most accounts. total funding, and funding for most programs, remains flat at gfy13 levels. overseas contingency operations funding was increased by $5 billion above the requested amount, providing some additional relief to the defense budget. in the event nasa were to cancel the space launch system ("sls") program, the company believes that it will be reimbursed for certain amounts previously incurred by atk, as well as amounts to be incurred by atk, as part of that termination (e.g., severance, environmental liabilities, termination administration). there can be no assurance that atk would be successful in collecting reimbursement of any termination liability costs. as of march 31, 2014 atk had $59 million of net property, plant, and equipment and other assets related to the sls and other contracts, and $518 million of goodwill recorded related to the space systems operations reporting unit. these assets would be subject to impairment testing if significant changes are made to the sls program and related contracts in future periods. with the budget agreement now in place, sequestration (the after-the-fact across-the-board cuts) will be replaced in gfy15 with budget submissions expected to be in-line with these lower funding levels and programs adjusted to fit the lower expected funding levels. budget pressures, such as rising personnel costs despite significant force reductions in the army and marine corps, will present challenges to modernization and research and development accounts. atk is preparing for a period where force reductions and a winding-down of overseas contingency operations, coupled with reduced training cycles and fairly healthy inventory levels for many ammunition and missile items, will result in less demand in some categories of products. u.s. government contracts are also dependent on the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. as a result, at the outset of a major program, the contract is usually incrementally funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as congress makes appropriations for future fiscal years. in addition, most u.s. government contracts are subject to modification if funding is changed. any failure by congress to appropriate additional funds to any program in which atk participates, or any contract modification as a result of funding 9 changes, could materially delay or terminate the program. this could have a material adverse effect on atk's operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. atk is subject to intense competition for u.s. government contracts and programs and therefore may not be able to compete successfully. atk encounters competition for most contracts and programs. some of the competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources. atk's ability to compete for these contracts depends to a large extent upon: • its effectiveness and innovativeness of research and development programs, • its ability to offer better program performance at a lower cost than the competitors, • its readiness with respect to facilities, equipment, and personnel to undertake the programs for which it competes, and • its past performance and demonstrated capabilities. in some instances, the u.s. government directs a program to a single supplier. in these cases, there may be other suppliers who have the capability to compete for the programs involved, but they can only enter or reenter the market if the u.s. government chooses to open the particular program to competition and, as such, these types of programs are subject to risk of the u.s. government providing new awards to other suppliers. atk's sole-source contracts accounted for 64% of its u.s. government sales in fiscal 2014. the downsizing of the munitions industrial base has resulted in a reduction in the number of competitors through consolidations and departures from the industry. this has reduced the number of competitors for some contracts and programs, but has strengthened the capabilities of some of the remaining competitors. in addition, it is possible that there will be increasing competition from the remaining competitors in business areas where they do not currently compete, particularly in those business areas dealing with electronics, as a result of budget pressures caused by congressional appropriations and sequestration. atk may not be able to react to increases in its costs due to the nature of its u.s. government contracts. atk's u.s. government contracts can be categorized as either "cost-plus" or "fixed-price." cost-plus contracts.    cost-plus contracts are cost-plus-fixed-fee, cost-plus-incentive-fee, or cost-plus-award-fee contracts. cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts allow atk to recover its approved costs plus a fixed fee. cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts and cost-plus-award-fee contracts allow atk to recover its approved costs plus a fee that can fluctuate based on actual results as compared to contractual targets for factors such as cost, quality, schedule, and performance. the award or incentive fees that are typically associated with these programs are subject to uncertainty and may be earned over extended periods. in these cases, the associated financial risks are primarily in lower profit rates or program cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. fixed-price contracts.    fixed-price contracts are firm-fixed-price, fixed-price-incentive, or fixed-price-level-of-effort contracts. under firm-fixed-price contracts, atk agrees to perform certain work for a fixed price and absorb any cost underruns or overruns. fixed-price-incentive contracts are fixed-price contracts under which the final contract price may be adjusted based on total final costs compared to total target cost, and may be affected by schedule and performance. fixed-price-level-of-effort contracts allow for a fixed price per labor hour, subject to a contract cap. all fixed-price contracts present the inherent risk of unreimbursed cost overruns. if the initial estimates used to calculate the contract price and the cost to perform the work prove to be incorrect, there could be a material adverse effect on operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. in addition, some contracts have specific provisions relating to cost, schedule, and performance. if atk fails to meet the terms specified in those contracts, the cost to perform the work could increase or atk's price could be reduced, which would adversely affect the company's financial condition. the u.s. government also regulates the accounting methods under which costs are allocated to u.s. government contracts. 10 the following table summarizes how much each of these types of contracts contributed to atk's u.s. government business in fiscal 2014: cost-plus contracts:   cost-plus-fixed-fee 8 % cost-plus-incentive-fee/cost-plus-award-fee 10 % fixed-price contracts:   firm-fixed-price 82 % total 100 % atk uses estimates in accounting for its programs. changes in estimates could affect atk's financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues, including the impact of scope change negotiations, estimating program costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of atk's contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complex and subject to many variables. assumptions are made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. similarly, many assumptions are made regarding the future impacts of such things as the business base, efficiency initiatives, cost reduction efforts, and contract changes and claim recovery. incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. estimates of award and incentive fees are also used in estimating revenue and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be recorded if atk used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. additional information on atk's accounting policies for revenue recognition can be found under "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in the section titled "critical accounting policies" in item 7 of this report. atk's u.s. government contracts are subject to termination. atk is subject to the risk that the u.s. government may terminate its contracts with its suppliers, either for convenience or in the event of a default by the contractor. if a cost-plus contract is terminated, the contractor is entitled to reimbursement of its approved costs. if the contractor would have incurred a loss had the entire contract been performed, then no profit is allowed by the u.s. government. if the termination is for convenience, the contractor is also entitled to receive payment of a total fee proportionate to the percentage of the work completed under the contract. if a fixed-price contract is terminated, the contractor is entitled to receive payment for items delivered to and accepted by the u.s. government. if the termination is for convenience, the contractor is also entitled to receive fair compensation for work performed plus the costs of settling and paying claims by terminated subcontractors, other settlement expenses, and a reasonable profit on the costs incurred or committed. while the contractor is entitled to these claims under either type of contract, there can be no assurance that these amounts will be recovered. if a contract termination is for default: • the contractor is paid an amount agreed upon for completed and partially completed products and services accepted by the u.s. government, • the u.s. government is not liable for the contractor's costs for unaccepted items, and is entitled to repayment of any advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract, and • the contractor may be liable for excess costs incurred by the u.s. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. other risks associated with u.s. government contracts may expose atk to adverse consequences. like all u.s. government contractors, atk is subject to possible losses on contracts due to risks associated with uncertain cost factors related to: • scarce technological skills and components, • the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of design completion, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns, 11 • the substantial time and effort required for design and development, • design complexity, • rapid obsolescence, and • the potential need for design improvement. atk is subject to procurement and other related laws and regulations, which non-compliance with may expose atk to adverse consequences. atk is subject to extensive and complex u.s. government procurement laws and regulations, along with ongoing u.s. government audits and reviews of contract procurement, performance, and administration. atk could suffer adverse consequences if it were to fail to comply, even inadvertently, with these laws and regulations or with laws governing the export of controlled products and commodities, or commit a significant violation of any other federal law. these consequences could include contract termination, civil and criminal penalties, and, under certain circumstances, atk's suspension and debarment from future u.s. government contracts for a period of time. in addition, foreign sales are subject to greater variability and risk than atk's domestic sales. foreign sales subject atk to numerous stringent u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act, and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in material adverse consequences to atk. novation of u.s. government contracts involves risk. when u.s. government contracts are transferred from one contractor to another, such as in connection with the sale of a business, the u.s. government may require that the parties enter into a novation agreement. a novation agreement generally provides that: • the transferring contractor guarantees or otherwise assumes liability for the performance of the acquiring contractor's obligations under the contract, • the acquiring contractor assumes all obligations under the contract, and • the u.s. government recognizes the transfer of the contract and related assets. if the u.s. government elects not to novate a particular contract, we may not recognize the full value of that contract over its lifetime. atk is subject to intense competition in the commercial ammunition, firearms, and accessories markets. in the commercial ammunition and accessories markets, atk competes against manufacturers that have well-established brand names and strong market positions. competition in these markets is based upon a number of factors, including price, quality, product innovation, performance, reliability, styling, product features and warranties as well as sales and marketing programs. certain of our competitors may be more diversified and have financial and marketing resources that are substantially greater than ours, which may allow these competitors to invest more heavily in intellectual property, product development and advertising. if we are not able to compete with new products of our competitors, our future business performance may be materially and adversely affected. internationally, our products typically face more competition where foreign competitors manufacture and market products in their respective countries. this may allow those competitors to sell products at lower prices, which could adversely affect our competitiveness. in addition, our commercial ammunition and accessories products compete with many other sporting and recreational products for the discretionary spending of consumers. a failure to effectively compete with these other competitors could have a material adverse effect on our performance. in addition, the success of atk’s sporting group depends on the continued strength of its brands. atk believes that its brands are significant contributors to the success of its business and that maintaining and enhancing the brands are important to expanding atk’s customer base. failure to continue to promote and protect atk’s brands may adversely affect atk’s business and results of operations. we are also subject to antitrust and competition laws of the united states and throughout the world. these laws are designed to prohibit agreements among companies that fix prices, divide markets, limit production or otherwise impede or weaken market forces. a violation of these laws could result in significant fines and penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business. 12 atk could experience changes in demand and manufacturing costs for ammunition. inherent in a consumer-based market, there is a risk that demand could soften, which could have an impact on atk operating results.  atk could experience changes in demand and manufacturing costs for ammunition.  in recent years, atk has seen a significant increase in demand for ammunition. although atk services a broad base of customers, there is no assurance the recent growth rate can be sustained, which could have an impact on the company's operating results.  in addition, atk may not be able to increase our capacity in time to satisfy increases in demand that may occur from time to time and may not have adequate financial resources to increase capacity to meet demand. capacity constraints may prevent the company from satisfying customer orders and result in a loss of market share to competitors. in addition, atk may suffer excess capacity and increased overhead if the company increases capacity to meet actual or anticipated demand and that demand decreases or does not materialize. changes in the regulation of the manufacture, sale and purchase of firearms and ammunition could adversely affect atk. the manufacture, sale and purchase of firearms and ammunition are also subject to extensive governmental regulation on the federal, state and local levels. changes in regulation could materially adversely affect our business by restricting the types of products we manufacture or sell or by imposing additional costs on us or our customers in connection with the manufacture or sale of our products. regulatory proposals, even if never enacted, may affect firearms or ammunition sales as a result of consumer perceptions. while we do not believe that existing federal and state legislation relating to the regulation of firearms and ammunition have had a material adverse effect on our sales, no assurance can be given that more restrictive regulations, if proposed or enacted, will not have a material adverse effect on us in the future. atk manufactures and sells products that create exposure to potential product liability, warranty liability or personal injury claims and litigation. atk's products may expose it to potential product liability, warranty liability or personal injury claims relating to the use of those products. the resolution of such claims is not expected to have a material adverse effect on atk's business, and atk maintains insurance coverage to mitigate a portion of these risks, which we believe to be adequate. however, atk's reputation may be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful, including potential negative publicity about its products. atk is exposed to other risks associated with expansion into new and adjacent commercial markets. atk's long-term business growth strategy includes further expansion into markets such as commercial aerospace structures. such efforts involve a number of risks, including increased capital expenditures, market uncertainties, schedule delays, performance risk, extended payment terms, diversion of management attention, additional credit risk associated with new customers, and costs incurred in competing with companies with strong brand names and market positions. an unfavorable event or trend in any one or more of these factors could adversely affect atk's operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. atk is exposed to risks associated with the recent expansion of its sporting group through acquisitions, which could impact future financial results. in fiscal 2014, atk acquired caliber company, the parent company of savage sports corporation ("savage"), a leading manufacturer of sporting long guns, and also acquired bushnell group holdings, inc. ("bushnell"), a leading global designer, marketer and distributor of branded sports optics, outdoor accessories and performance eyewear. the acquisitions of savage and bushnell involve a number of risks, including the risk that the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer than expected to realize, costs and difficulties related to the integration of the two acquired companies with atk's operations, and unanticipated liabilities or contingencies. these and other risks relating to the savage and bushnell acquisitions could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. international sales are subject to greater risks that sometimes are associated with doing business in foreign countries. over the next several years, atk intends to focus on the expansion of our business into international markets. in fiscal 2014, approximately 12% of atk's sales were to foreign customers, compared to 10% in the prior year. atk's international business may pose greater risks than its business in the united states because in some countries there is increased potential for changes in economic, legal and political environments. atk's international business is also sensitive to changes in a foreign government's national priorities and budgets. international transactions frequently involve increased financial and legal risks arising from differing legal systems and customs in other countries. in addition, some international customers require contractors to agree to offset programs that may require in-country purchases or manufacturing or financial support arrangements as a condition to awarding contracts. the contracts may include penalties in the event the company fails to perform in accordance with the offset requirements. furthermore, the expansion of atk’s international business may create 13 more difficulties and risks to atk with respect to the maintenance of an integrated supply chain network. an unfavorable event or trend in any one or more of these factors could adversely affect atk's operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. foreign sales subject atk to numerous stringent u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act and certain other anti-corruption laws, and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in material adverse consequences to atk. atk’s defense products, ammunition, firearms, and accessories are subject to extensive regulation. atk is required to comply with extensive regulation of its defense products, ammunition, firearms and accessories, including those rules and regulations administered by the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives (atf), the u.s. department of homeland security, the u.s. department of state and the u.s. department of commerce. these laws include, but are not limited to, the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa), international traffic in arms regulations (itar), the chemical facility anti-terrorism standards (cfats), and the consumer products safety act. compliance with these laws is costly and time consuming. a violation of these laws could result in significant fines and penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business. atk is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability. sales and purchases in currencies other than the u.s. dollar expose atk to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar and may adversely affect atk's results of operations. currency fluctuations may affect product demand and prices atk pays for materials and, as a result, the company's operating margins may be negatively impacted. fluctuations in exchange rates may give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of atk's non-u.s. businesses are translated into u.s. dollars. while atk monitors our exchange rate exposures and seek to reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, such activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to atk or successful in significantly mitigating such volatility. atk has a substantial amount of debt, and the cost of servicing that debt could adversely affect atk's business and hinder atk's ability to make payments on its debt. as of march 31, 2014, atk had total debt of $2.1 billion. in addition, atk had $141.8 million of outstanding but undrawn letters of credit and, taking into account these letters of credit, an additional $558.2 million of availability under its revolving credit facility. additional information on atk's debt can be found under "liquidity and capital resources" in item 7 of this report. atk has demands on its cash resources in addition to interest and principal payments on its debt including, among others, operating expenses. these significant demands on atk's cash resources could: • make it more difficult for atk to satisfy its obligations, • require atk to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends, and other general corporate purposes, • limit atk's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the defense and aerospace industries, • place atk at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have lower debt service obligations and significantly greater operating and financing flexibility, • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants applicable to atk's indebtedness, among other things, atk's ability to borrow additional funds, • increase atk's vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, and • result in a default event upon a failure to comply with financial covenants contained in atk's senior credit facilities which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on atk's business, financial condition, or results of operations. atk's ability to pay interest on and repay its long-term debt and to satisfy its other liabilities will depend upon future operating performance and atk's ability to refinance its debt as it becomes due. atk's future operating performance and ability to refinance will be affected by prevailing economic conditions at that time and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond atk's control. 14 if atk is unable to service its indebtedness and fund operating costs, atk will be forced to adopt alternative strategies that may include: • reducing or delaying expenditures for capital equipment and/or share repurchases, • seeking additional debt financing or equity capital, • selling assets, or • restructuring or refinancing debt. there can be no assurance that any such strategies could be implemented on satisfactory terms, if at all. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect atk's earnings and cash flows. atk's earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense or income recorded for employee benefit plans, primarily pension plans and other postretirement plans. generally accepted accounting principles ("gaap") in the united states of america require atk to calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations are based on assumptions made relating to financial market and other economic conditions. changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in these assumptions. the key year-end assumptions used to estimate pension and postretirement benefit expense or income for the following year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the rate of increase in future compensation levels, mortality rates, and the health care cost trend rate. atk is required to remeasure its plan assets and benefit obligations annually, which may result in a significant change to equity through other comprehensive income (loss). atk's pension and other postretirement benefit income or expense can also be affected by legislation or other regulatory actions. additional information on how atk's financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies can be found under "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in the section titled "critical accounting policies" in item 7 of this report. atk's business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security and other industrial, insider and physical security threats, and other disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, atk faces cyber threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, and terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures, natural disasters, or public health crises. atk also faces the risk of economic espionage, which involves the targeting or acquisition of sensitive financial, trade, proprietary or technological information. atk routinely experiences cyber security threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to atk's sensitive information, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. atk may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage as a contractual requirement. prior cyber attacks directed at atk have not had a material impact on our financial results, and atk believes the threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are adequate. the threats atk faces vary from attacks common to most industries to more advanced and persistent, highly-organized adversaries who target us because we protect national security information. if atk is unable to protect sensitive information, our customers or governmental authorities could question the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures. due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. although atk works cooperatively with our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, joint venture partners, and acquired entities to seek to minimize the impact of cyber threats, other security threats or business disruptions, atk must rely on the safeguards put in place by these entities, which may affect the security of our information. these entities have varying levels of cyber security expertise and safeguards and their relationships with government contractors, such as atk, may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber threats atk faces. the costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services atk provide to our customers, loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts or other intellectual property, early obsolescence of our products and services, our future financial results, our reputation or our stock price. disruptions in the supply of key raw materials and difficulties in the supplier qualification process, as well as increases in prices of raw materials, could adversely impact atk. key raw materials used in atk's operations include aluminum, steel, steel alloys, copper, zinc, lead, graphite fiber, prepreg, hydroxy terminated polybutadiene, epoxy resins and adhesives, ethylene propylene diene monomer rubbers, 15 diethylether, x-ray film, plasticizers and nitrate esters, impregnated ablative materials, various natural and synthetic rubber compounds, polybutadiene, acrylonitrile, and ammonium perchlorate. atk also purchases chemicals; electronic, electro-mechanical and mechanical components; subassemblies; and subsystems that are integrated with the manufactured parts for final assembly into finished products and systems. atk monitors sources of supply to attempt to assure that adequate raw materials and other supplies needed in manufacturing processes are available. as a u.s. government contractor, atk is frequently limited to procuring materials and components from sources of supply approved by the u.s. dod. in addition, as business conditions, the dod budget, and congressional allocations change, suppliers of specialty chemicals and materials sometimes consider dropping low volume items from their product lines, which may require, as it has in the past, qualification of new suppliers for raw materials on key programs. the supply of ammonium perchlorate, a principal raw material used in atk's operations, is limited to a single source that supplies the entire domestic solid propellant industry. this single source, however, maintains two separate manufacturing lines a reasonable distance apart, which mitigates the likelihood of a fire, explosion, or other problem impacting all production. atk may also rely on one primary supplier for other production materials. although other suppliers of the same materials may exist, the addition of a new supplier may require atk to qualify the new source for use. the qualification process may impact atk's profitability or ability to meet contract deliveries. certain suppliers of materials used in the manufacturing of rocket motors have discontinued the production of some materials. these materials include certain insulation and resin materials for rocket motor cases and aerospace-grade rayon for nozzles. atk has qualified new replacement materials for some programs. for other programs, atk or atk's customer has procured sufficient inventory to cover current program requirements and is in the process of qualifying new replacement materials to be qualified in time to meet future production needs. atk's profitability may be affected if unforeseen difficulties in developing and qualifying replacement materials occur. atk is also impacted by increases in the prices of raw materials used in production on commercial and fixed-price business. atk has seen a significant fluctuation in the prices of commodity metals, including copper, lead, steel and zinc. the fluctuating costs of natural gas and electricity also have an impact on the cost of operating atk's factories. prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of atk's key raw materials, difficulty completing qualification of new sources of supply, implementing use of replacement materials or new sources of supply, or a continuing increase in the prices of raw materials and energy could have a material adverse effect on atk's operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. new regulations related to conflict minerals may force atk to incur additional expenses. the sec has adopted additional disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo and surrounding countries, or "conflict minerals," that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an sec reporting company. the minerals that the final rules cover are commonly referred to as "3tg" and include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. implementation of the new disclosure requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of some of the minerals that atk uses in the manufacture of its products. atk's supply chain is complex, and atk may not be able to conclusively verify whether conflict minerals are used in its products or whether its products are "conflict free." atk could incur significant costs related to the compliance process, including potential difficulty or added costs in satisfying the disclosure requirements. failure of atk's subcontractors to perform their contractual obligations could materially and adversely impact atk's prime contract performance and ability to obtain future business. atk relies on subcontracts with other companies to perform a portion of the services atk provides its customers on many of its contracts. there is a risk that atk may have disputes with its subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, atk's failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, or atk's hiring of personnel of a subcontractor. a failure by one or more of atk's subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact atk's ability to perform its obligations as the prime contractor. subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a customer limiting payments or terminating a contract for default. a default termination could expose atk to liability and have a material adverse effect on the ability to compete for future contracts and orders. a portion of atk’s workforce belongs to unions. failure to successfully negotiate or renew collective bargaining agreements, or strikes, slow-downs or other labor-related disruptions, could adversely affect atk’s operations and could result in increased costs that impair its financial performance.  some of atk’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, which expire on various dates. atk is currently negotiating an initial collective bargaining agreement with employees at one of its locations. strikes, slow-downs or 16 other labor-related disruptions could occur if atk is unable to either negotiate or renew these agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact the company’s operating results. the terms and conditions of new or renegotiated agreements could also increase atk’s costs or otherwise affect its ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance its efficiency. atk's future success and growth will depend significantly on its ability to develop new technologies and products that achieve market acceptance within acceptable margins while maintaining a qualified workforce to meet the needs of its customers. virtually all of the products produced and sold by atk are highly engineered and require sophisticated manufacturing and system integration techniques and capabilities. atk's commercial and government businesses both operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, industry standards, market trends and customer demands. the product and program needs of atk's government and commercial customers change and evolve regularly. accordingly, atk's future performance depends on its ability to identify emerging technological trends, develop and manufacture competitive products, enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors, and bring those products to market quickly at cost-effective prices. our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. in addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we anticipate. the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. in addition, because of the highly specialized nature of its business, atk must be able to hire and retain the skilled and appropriately qualified personnel necessary to perform the services required by its customers. atk's operating results, financial condition, or cash flows may be adversely affected if it is unable to develop new products that meet customers' changing needs or successfully attract and retain qualified personnel. due to the volatile and flammable nature of its products, fires or explosions may disrupt atk's business. many of atk's products involve the manufacture and/or handling of a variety of explosive and flammable materials. from time to time, these activities have resulted in incidents which have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted some manufacturing processes, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. atk has safety and loss prevention programs which require detailed pre-construction reviews of process changes and new operations, along with routine safety audits of operations involving explosive materials, to mitigate such incidents, as well as a variety of insurance policies. however, atk cannot ensure that it will not experience similar incidents in the future or that any similar incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. atk is subject to environmental laws and regulations that govern both past practices and current compliance which may expose atk to adverse consequences. atk's operations and ownership or use of real property are subject to a number of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, as well as applicable foreign laws and regulations, including those for discharge of hazardous materials, remediation of contaminated sites, and restoration of damage to the environment. at certain sites that atk owns or operates or formerly owned or operated, there is known or potential contamination that atk is required to investigate, remediate, or provide resource restoration. atk could incur substantial costs, including remediation costs, resource restoration costs, fines, and penalties, or third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of liabilities associated with past practices or violations of environmental laws or non-compliance with environmental permits. atk expects that a portion of its environmental compliance and remediation costs will be recoverable under u.s. government contracts. some of the remediation costs that are not recoverable from the u.s. government that are associated with facilities purchased in a business acquisition may be covered by various indemnification agreements. while atk has environmental management programs in place to mitigate risks, environmental laws and regulations have not had a material adverse effect on atk's operating results, financial condition, or cash flows in the past, and it is difficult to predict whether they will have a material impact in the future. capital market volatility could adversely impact atk's earnings because of atk's capital structure. as of march 31, 2014, atk had a total of $199 million of convertible senior subordinated notes outstanding, subject to the terms of the indenture. the indenture requires atk to satisfy up to the principal amount of these notes solely in cash. in 17 addition, the indenture requires atk to pay any additional amounts above the principal amount of the notes in cash, common stock, or a combination of cash and common stock at atk's discretion. as the price of atk's common stock increases above the conversion price of the notes, atk includes the dilutive impact of the number of shares that would be issued if converted, which decreases earnings per share. as of march 31, 2014, the stock price condition had been satisfied and the notes were convertible and continue to be convertible, at the option of the holder, through june 29, 2014, and will remain convertible so long as atk’s stock price continues to meet the 130%-of-conversion-price condition. atk is also exposed to the risk of fluctuation in interest rates. if interest rates increase, atk may incur increased interest expense on variable interest-rate debt or short-term borrowings, which could have an adverse impact on atk's operating results and cash flows. atk may pursue or complete acquisitions, or other transactions, which represent additional risk and could impact future financial results. atk's business strategy includes the potential for future acquisitions or other transactions, including the announced spin-off of the sporting group and atk's merger with orbital sciences corporation. acquisitions involve a number of risks including integration of the acquired company with atk's operations and unanticipated liabilities or contingencies related to the acquired company. atk cannot ensure that the expected benefits of any future acquisitions or other transactions will be realized. costs could be incurred on pursuits or proposed acquisitions that have not yet or may not close which could significantly impact atk's operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. additionally, after the acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. furthermore, atk may engage in other strategic business transactions. such transactions could cause unanticipated costs and difficulties, may not achieve intended results, and may require significant time and attention from management which could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. atk's profitability could be impacted by unanticipated changes in its tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. atk's business operates in many locations under government jurisdictions that impose income taxes. changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain revenues or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting income tax expense and profitability. in addition, audits by income tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in income tax expense. atk is involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. atk is subject to lawsuits, investigations, and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) which arise out of the conduct of atk's business including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability, prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, import and export matters, and environmental, health and safety matters. resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and atk's business may be adversely affected by the ultimate outcome of these matters that cannot be predicted with certainty. moreover, atk's potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy, or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. additional information can be found in item 3 of this report. risks related to the spin-off and merger transaction references to "the company" in this section refer to atk after giving effect to the spin-off of atk's sporting group (the "distribution") and the merger of atk with orbital sciences corporation ("orbital") (the "merger"), assuming the transaction is completed.   the transaction may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated or at all.   the completion of the transaction is subject to certain conditions, including (1) the absence of certain legal impediments, (2) the expiration or termination of the required waiting periods under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, (3) the effectiveness of certain filings with the securities and exchange commission, (4) approval by atk stockholders and orbital stockholders, (5) receipt of opinions from legal counsel regarding the intended tax treatment of the transaction, (6) the sporting group’s payment of the sporting dividend (as defined below) to atk, and (7) other customary closing conditions. atk cannot provide assurances that the transaction will be consummated on the terms or timeline currently 18 contemplated, or at all. atk has expended and will continue to expend a significant amount of time and resources on the transaction, and a failure to consummate the transaction as currently contemplated, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected if the transaction is not consummated as currently contemplated, or at all. if the transaction is not completed for any reason, the trading price of atk’s common stock may decline to the extent that the market price of the common stock reflects positive market assumptions that the transaction will be completed and the related benefits will be realized. atk may also be subject to additional risks if the transaction is not completed, including: • the requirement in the transaction agreement that, under certain circumstances, atk pay orbital a termination fee of $50 million and/or reimburse certain expenses up to $10 million; • substantial costs related to the transaction, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory, and integration costs that have already been incurred or will continue to be incurred until closing; and • potential disruption to the business of atk and distraction of its workforce and management team. the integration of atk and orbital following the merger may present significant challenges. there will be a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of establishing the sporting group as an independent public company and integrating atk and orbital. these difficulties will include: • the challenge of establishing the sporting group as a separately traded independent public company ("sporting"); • the challenge of integrating atk and orbital and carrying on the ongoing operations of each entity; • the necessity of coordinating geographically separate organizations; • the challenge of integrating the business cultures of atk and orbital; and • the potential difficulty in retaining key officers and personnel of atk and orbital. the process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of atk and orbital. members of the company’s senior management team may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage the combined company, service existing customers, attract new customers and develop new products or strategies. if senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, the company's business could suffer. atk cannot provide assurances that the company will successfully or cost-effectively integrate atk and orbital. the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. the company may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from the transaction. the success of the transaction will depend, in part, on the ability of the company to realize anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies. the company’s success in realizing these growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of atk’s business and operations and orbital’s business and operations. even if the company is able to integrate the atk and orbital businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies that atk currently expects from this integration within the anticipated time frame or at all. for example, the company may be unable to eliminate duplicative costs, or the benefits from the transaction may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies. while it is anticipated that certain expenses will be incurred, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates.  the transaction agreement contains provisions that may discourage other companies from trying to acquire atk.   the transaction agreement contains provisions that may discourage a third party from submitting a business combination proposal to atk prior to the closing of the merger that might result in greater value to atk stockholders than the transaction. the transaction agreement generally prohibits atk from soliciting any acquisition proposal, and while atk's board of directors may in certain circumstances change its recommendation to atk stockholders to approve the merger, atk may not terminate the transaction agreement in order to accept an alternative business combination proposal that might result in greater value to atk stockholders than the transaction. if the transaction agreement is terminated in certain circumstances, atk may be obligated to pay orbital a termination fee of $50 million and/or reimburse certain expenses up to $10 million, which would represent an additional cost for a potential third party seeking a business combination with atk. 19 if the distribution does not qualify as a tax-free spin-off under section 355 of the internal revenue code (the "code"), including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of stock of the company or sporting, then the company or atk stockholders immediately prior to the distribution may be required to pay substantial u.s. federal income taxes, and sporting may be obligated to indemnify the company for such taxes imposed on the company. the distribution and the merger are conditioned upon atk’s receipt of an opinion of counsel to the effect that the distribution, merger and certain related transactions will qualify as tax-free to atk, sporting, orbital and the stockholders of atk and orbital for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the distribution and the merger are also conditioned upon orbital’s receipt of an opinion of counsel to the effect that the merger will qualify as tax-free to orbital and the orbital stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the parties will not, however, seek a private letter ruling from the irs with respect to the tax-free treatment of the distribution, merger or any related transactions. an opinion of counsel represents counsel’s best legal judgment, is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. the opinions of counsel are based on, among other things, certain representations and assumptions as to factual matters made by atk, sporting and orbital. the failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects could adversely affect the validity of the opinions. in addition, the opinions will be based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distribution or certain related transactions were taxable, atk stockholders would recognize income on their receipt of sporting stock in the distribution, and atk would be considered to have made a taxable sale of certain of its assets to sporting. the distribution will be taxable to atk pursuant to section 355(e) of the code if there is a 50% or more change in ownership of either atk or sporting, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution. because atk stockholders will collectively own more than 50% of the atk common stock following the merger, the merger alone will not cause the distribution to be taxable to atk under section 355(e). however, section 355(e) could apply if other acquisitions of stock of atk before or after the merger, or of sporting after the merger, are considered to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution. if section 355(e) applied, atk would recognize a very substantial amount of taxable gain. under a tax matters agreement, in certain circumstances, and subject to certain limitations, sporting is required to indemnify the company against taxes on the distribution that arise as a result of actions or failures to act by sporting, or as a result of section 355(e) applying due to acquisitions of sporting stock after the distribution. in other cases, however, the company might recognize gain on the distribution without being entitled to an indemnification payment under the tax matters agreement. the possibility of the company recognizing and not being indemnified for this gain may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring stock of the company during the two years after the merger in a transaction that stockholders of the company might consider favorable. the company and sporting may each be unable to take certain actions after the merger because such actions could jeopardize the tax-free status of the distribution or the merger, and such restrictions could be significant. the company and sporting are each prohibited pursuant to a tax matters agreement from taking actions or omissions that could reasonably be expected to cause the distribution to be taxable or to jeopardize the conclusions of the opinions of counsel received by atk or orbital. in particular, for two years after the distribution, the company and sporting may not: • enter into any agreement, understanding or arrangement or engage in any substantial negotiations with respect to any transaction involving the acquisition, issuance, repurchase or change of ownership of (1) in the case of the company, any of the company’s capital stock and (2) in the case of sporting, 30% or more of the sporting capital stock, in each case together with options or other rights in respect of that capital stock, subject to certain exceptions relating to employee compensation arrangements, open market share repurchases and stockholder rights plans; • cease to be engaged in the active conduct of, or sell or transfer more than 30% of the gross assets or gross consolidated assets of, certain businesses; • redeem or otherwise repurchase its capital stock, subject to certain exceptions provided by the tax matters agreement; or • liquidate, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise. nevertheless, each party is permitted to take any of the actions described above if it obtains an opinion of counsel that is reasonably acceptable to the other party (or an irs private letter ruling) to the effect that the action will not affect the tax-free status of the distribution, merger or certain related transactions. the receipt of any such ruling or opinion in respect of an action sporting proposes to take will not relieve sporting of any obligation it has to indemnify the company if that action causes the distribution, merger or certain related transactions to be taxable to the company. 20 because of these restrictions, for two years after the merger, the company and sporting may each be limited in the amount of capital stock they can issue to make acquisitions or to raise additional capital. also, sporting’s indemnity obligation to the company may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control of sporting during this two-year period in a transaction that stockholders of sporting might consider favorable.   as a result of the merger, current atk stockholders will, in the aggregate, have a significantly reduced ownership and voting interest in the company.   after the merger’s completion, atk stockholders will, in the aggregate, own a significantly smaller percentage of the company than they will collectively own of atk immediately prior to the merger. current atk stockholders will collectively own approximately 53.8% of the company’s outstanding equity on a fully diluted basis immediately following the closing of the merger. consequently, atk stockholders immediately prior to the merger, collectively, will be able to exercise less influence over the management and policies of the company than they could exercise over the management and policies of atk immediately prior to the merger. in addition, upon consummation of the merger, the board of directors of the company will consist of 16 members, composed of nine orbital designees and seven atk designees. the pendency of the transaction could adversely affect the business and operations of atk and orbital and may result in the departure of key personnel.   in connection with the pending distribution and merger, some customers of each of atk and orbital may delay or defer decisions or may end their relationships with the relevant company, which could negatively affect the revenues, earnings and cash flows of atk and orbital, regardless of whether the transaction is completed. similarly, current and prospective employees of atk and orbital business may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the company following the transaction, which may materially adversely affect the ability of each of atk and orbital to attract and retain key personnel during the pendency of the transaction. in addition, certain key personnel, including our ceo, are expected to leave atk and work for sporting after the completion of the transaction. item 1b.    unresolved