item 1a. risk factors. the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and the forward-looking information in this document. please also see “statement regarding forward-looking disclosures” in the section immediately preceding item 1 of this report. the risks described below are not the only risks our business faces. we may also be adversely affected by additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. our ability to anticipate and respond to changing client preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner our success largely depends on our ability to consistently gauge fashion trends and provide a balanced assortment of merchandise that satisfies client demands for each of our brands in a timely manner. any missteps may affect inventory levels, since we enter into agreements to manufacture and purchase our merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends and economic conditions could lead to lower sales, missed opportunities, excess inventories and more frequent markdowns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. merchandise missteps could also negatively impact our image with our clients and result in diminished brand loyalty. our ability to maintain the value of our brands our success depends on the value of our ann taylor and loft brands. the ann taylor and loft names are integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands will depend largely on the success of our design, merchandising and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality client experience. our business could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives for one or both of our brands and our public image and reputation could be tarnished by negative publicity. any of these events could negatively impact sales and profitability. our ability to manage inventory levels and changes in merchandise mix the long lead times required for a substantial portion of our merchandise make client demand difficult to predict and responding quickly to changes challenging. though we have the ability to source certain product categories with shorter lead times, we enter into contracts for a substantial portion of our merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. our financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to manage inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in client demand patterns. in addition, our plans to offer multi-channel fulfillment during fiscal 2012 may pose additional complexities in our ability to manage inventory levels. inventory levels in excess of client demand may result in excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned gross margin. if we underestimate demand for our merchandise, on the other hand, we may experience inventory shortages resulting in missed sales and lost revenues. either of these events could significantly affect our operating results and brand image. in addition, our margins may be impacted by changes in our merchandise mix and a shift toward merchandise with lower selling prices. these changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 6 table of contents our ability to successfully upgrade and maintain our information systems to support the needs of the organization and implement our business transformation initiatives we rely heavily on information systems to manage our operations, including a full range of retail, financial, sourcing and merchandising systems, and regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems. the reliability and capacity of our information systems are critical. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, technical malfunctions, power outages, computer viruses, and security breaches. any disruptions affecting our information systems, or any delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or in integrating them with current systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business. any failure to maintain adequate system security controls to protect our computer assets and sensitive data, including client data, from unauthorized access, disclosure or use could also damage our reputation with our clients. as a component of our ongoing strategy to increase efficiencies, monitor costs and improve our information technology capabilities, we rely on third parties for the implementation and/or management of certain aspects of our information technology infrastructure. many of the functions that are performed by third parties are performed in their offshore locations. our agreements with those third parties require them to maintain certain levels of care and security with respect to our information systems and our data. however, failure by any of these third parties to implement and/or manage our information technology infrastructure effectively and securely could disrupt our operations, adversely affect our customers' shopping experience and negatively impact our profitability. furthermore, the use of offshore service providers may expose us to risks related to local political, economic, social or environmental conditions (including acts of terrorism, the outbreak of war, or the occurrence of natural disaster), restrictive actions by foreign governments or changes in united states laws and regulations. we are also implementing enterprise-wide initiatives intended to standardize business processes across brands and functions and to optimize performance. there can be no assurances that these initiatives will deliver the expected benefits or that there will not be delays in the expected timing of implementation. it is possible that the costs to complete any related system conversions may exceed current expectations. in addition, the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes are undertaken. if our business transformation initiatives fail or are significantly delayed, our ability to improve existing operations and support future growth could be impaired or delayed, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends in part on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans. risks associated with internet sales we sell merchandise over the internet through our online stores, www.anntaylor.com and www.loft.com. our internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • the successful implementation of new systems and internet platforms, including our strategy to introduce mobile capability and online international order fulfillment; • the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, causing, among other things, website downtimes and other technical failures; • reliance on third-party computer hardware/software; • reliance on third-party order fulfillment providers; • rapid technological change; • diversion of sales from our stores; • liability for online content; • violations of state or federal laws, including those relating to online privacy; • credit card fraud; and • telecommunications failures and vulnerability to electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. our failure to successfully address and respond to these risks could reduce internet sales, increase costs and damage the reputation of our brands. 7 table of contents our reliance on third-party manufacturers and key vendors we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend on independent third parties to manufacture our merchandise. we are at risk for increases in manufacturing costs and we cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control and failure to meet production deadlines. in addition, we source our merchandise from a select group of manufacturers and we continue to strengthen our relationships with these key vendors. while this strategy has benefits, it also has risks. if one or more of our key vendors were to cease working with us, the flow of merchandise to our stores could be impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. in addition, world-wide economic conditions continue to negatively impact businesses around the world, and the impact of those conditions on our major suppliers cannot be predicted. our suppliers may be unable to obtain adequate credit or access liquidity to finance their operations. a manufacturer's failure to ship merchandise to us on a timely basis or to meet the required product safety, quality and social compliance standards could cause supply shortages, failure to meet client expectations and damage to our brands. the effect of general economic conditions and the recent financial crisis our financial performance is subject to world-wide economic conditions and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and levels of consumer spending, which may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. some of the factors impacting discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, wages and unemployment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on market declines, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, increases in fuel and energy prices, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. although the recent global financial crisis has eased somewhat in the united states, world-wide economic conditions remain challenging and consumer spending remains depressed as compared with pre-crisis levels. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. a further downturn in the economy could affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations and continued growth. it is difficult to predict whether recent improvements in the u.s. economic, capital and credit markets will continue or whether such conditions will further deteriorate, as well as the impact this might have on our business. the effect of fluctuations in sourcing costs the raw materials, in particular cotton, silk and wool, used to manufacture our merchandise are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, labor conditions, transportation or freight costs, currency fluctuations, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. we take steps to mitigate sourcing pressures from fluctuating raw material costs by making advance commitments on key core fabrics, leveraging our strong vendor relationships and using country sourcing flexibility. despite these measures, an increase in the demand for, or the price of, and/or a decrease in the availability of the raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our clients' needs. additionally, increases in labor costs, especially in china, as well as a shortage of labor in certain areas of china, may also impact our sourcing costs. we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher sourcing costs onto our clients, which could negatively impact our profitability. our reliance on foreign sources of production we purchase a significant portion of our merchandise from foreign suppliers. as a result, we are subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: • fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies or restrictions on the transfer of funds; • imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas or other restrictions that may limit the quantity of our merchandise that may be imported into the united states from countries in regions where we do business; • significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to port security considerations; • imposition of duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; • imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duties in response to an investigation as to whether a particular product being sold in the united states at less than fair value may cause (or threaten to cause) material injury to the relevant domestic industry; • financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured; • impact of natural disasters and public health concerns on our foreign sourcing offices and vendor manufacturing operations; • potential cancellation of orders or recalls of any merchandise that does not meet our product safety and quality standards or is not manufactured in accordance with our social compliance requirements; and • disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. 8 table of contents any sudden disruptions in the manufacture or import of our merchandise caused by adverse changes in these or any other factors could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. our reliance on key management and our ability to retain and attract qualified associates our success depends to a significant extent upon both the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain qualified management talent in the future. our senior executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in the retail business and have made significant contributions to the growth and success of our brands. competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot retain our key executives or if we fail to attract additional qualified individuals. our performance also depends in large part on the talents and contributions of engaged and skilled associates in all areas of our organization. if we are unable to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain talented individuals, we may be unable to compete effectively and our business could be adversely impacted. our ability to execute brand extensions and other growth strategies part of our business strategy is to grow our existing brands and identify and develop new growth opportunities. our success with new merchandise offerings or concepts requires significant capital expenditures and management oversight. any such plan is subject to risks such as client acceptance, competition and product differentiation. there is no assurance that these merchandise offerings or concepts will be successful or that our overall profitability will increase as a result. additionally, our current growth strategy includes plans to begin opening stores in canada late in 2012 or early 2013. we have no prior experience operating in canada, where we face established competitors. canada may have different operational characteristics, including employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate and legal requirements. furthermore, consumer demand and behavior, as well as tastes and purchasing trends may differ in canada, and as a result, sales of our merchandise may not be successful, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we currently anticipate. any difficulties that we encounter as we expand our geographical coverage to canada may divert financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. our ability to successfully manage store growth and optimize the productivity and profitability of our store portfolio our continued growth and success depend, in part, on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores, enhance and remodel existing stores on a timely and profitable basis, and optimize store performance by closing under-performing stores. accomplishing our store expansion goals in the united states and planned expansion into canada depends upon a number of factors, including locating suitable sites and negotiating favorable lease terms. we must also be able to effectively renew and renegotiate lease terms for existing stores. managing the profitability of our stores and optimizing store productivity will also depend in large part on the continued success and client acceptance of our new ann taylor and loft store formats, as well as our ability to achieve planned store growth for our brands in fiscal 2012. hiring and training qualified associates, particularly at the store management level, and maintaining overall good relations with our associates, is also important to our store operations. there is no assurance that we will achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively or operate our stores profitably. the effect of competitive pressures from other retailers the specialty retail industry is highly competitive. we compete with local, national and international department stores, specialty and discount stores, catalogs and internet businesses offering similar categories of merchandise. many of our competitors are companies with substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources. increased levels of promotional activity by our competitors, some of which may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can, both online and in stores, may negatively impact our sales and profitability. there is no assurance that we can compete successfully with these companies in the future. in addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations, lease terms and qualified associates. increased competition in these areas may result in higher costs, which could reduce our sales and margins and adversely affect our results of operations. 9 table of contents our ability to secure and protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights we believe that our “anntaylor,” “loft” and “anntaylor loft” trademarks are important to our success. even though we register and defend our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, there is no assurance that our actions will protect us from the prior registration by others or prevent others from infringing our trademarks and proprietary rights or seeking to block sales of our products as infringements of their trademarks and proprietary rights. further, the laws of foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. because we have not registered all of our trademarks in all categories, or in all foreign countries in which we currently manufacture merchandise or may manufacture or sell merchandise in the future, our ability to pursue international expansion and our sourcing of merchandise from international suppliers could be impacted. the impact of a privacy breach and the resulting effect on our business and reputation as part of our normal course of business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information. despite the robust security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to cybersecurity breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. any cybersecurity breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or our third-party service providers, could severely damage our reputation and our relationship with our clients, expose us to risks of litigation and adversely affect our business. in addition, we may incur significant remediation costs in the event of a cybersecurity breach, including liability for stolen client or associate information, repairing system damage or providing credit monitoring or other benefits to clients affected by the breach. we may also incur increased cybersecurity protection costs to guard against future cyber incidents. these and other cybersecurity-related compliance, prevention and remediation costs may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the u.s. securities and exchange commission and the new york stock exchange, as well as applicable employment laws. any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations or the enactment of any new legislation that affects employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, privacy, or environmental issues, among other things, may increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance. failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in damage to our reputation and negatively impact our financial condition. manufacturer compliance with our social compliance program requirements we require our independent manufacturers to comply with the ann taylor global supplier principles and guidelines, which cover many areas including labor, health and safety and environmental standards. we monitor compliance with these guidelines using third-party monitoring firms. although we have an active program to provide training for our independent manufacturers and monitor their compliance with these standards, we do not control the manufacturers or their practices. any failure of our independent manufacturers to comply with our global supplier principles and guidelines or local laws in the country of manufacture could disrupt the shipment of merchandise to us, force us to locate alternative manufacturing sources, reduce demand for our merchandise or damage our reputation. the effect of uncertain global economic conditions on our liquidity and capital resources as a result of the instability in the global financial markets, there is continued diminished liquidity and credit availability and there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected or that our capital resources will at all times be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs. although we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our $250 million third amended and restated credit agreement, (as amended through february 28, 2012, the “credit facility”) will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future, any renewed tightening of the credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. our credit facility also has financial covenants which, if not met, may further impede our ability to access funds under the credit facility. in addition, we have significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents invested in deposit accounts at fdic-insured banks. all of our deposit account balances are currently fdic insured and will remain so through december 31, 2012 as a result of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "dodd-frank act").  if the deposit insurance provision of the dodd-frank act is not renewed, we may consider moving funds from deposit accounts into money market funds backed by u.s. treasury securities. with the current financial environment and the instability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on our deposits. 10 table of contents our dependence on our louisville distribution center and third-party transportation companies our distribution center in louisville, kentucky, which we own and operate, manages the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of the majority of merchandise to our stores. we also utilize a third-party distribution center bypass facility in santa fe springs, california, where a portion of our merchandise is transloaded for distribution to our stores. merchandise sold on www.anntaylor.com and www.loft.com is sent directly to our clients through an arrangement with a third-party fulfillment vendor with facilities in bolingbrook, illinois. independent third-party transportation companies then deliver merchandise from these facilities to our stores and our clients. any significant interruption in the operation of our louisville distribution center, the third-party distribution facilities that we utilize or the domestic transportation infrastructure due to natural disasters, accidents, inclement weather, system failures, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes by employees of third-party vendors that we utilize, or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores and our clients, which could result in lower sales, a loss of loyalty to our brands and excess inventory. furthermore, we are susceptible to increases in fuel and other transportation costs that we may not be able to pass on to our clients, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the impact on our stock price relating to our level of sales and earnings growth a variety of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable sales results and profit margins. these factors include fashion trends and client preferences, changes in our merchandise mix, competition, economic conditions, weather, effective inventory management and new store openings, among other things. there is no assurance that we will achieve positive levels of sales and earnings growth, and any decline in our future growth or performance could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. our stock price has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility as a result of many factors, including global economic conditions, broad market fluctuations, our operating performance and public perception of the prospects for the women's apparel industry. failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to comparable sales, net revenue, operating margins and earnings per share, would likely result in a decline in the market value of our stock. effects of war, terrorism, public health concerns or other catastrophes threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events in the united states and world-wide could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, disrupt the production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise or lead to lower client traffic in regional shopping centers. natural disasters and public health concerns, including severe infectious diseases, could also impact our ability to open and run our stores in affected areas and negatively impact our foreign sourcing offices and the manufacturing operations of our vendors. lower client traffic due to security concerns, war or the threat of war, natural disasters and public health concerns could result in decreased sales that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to mitigate the adverse impact of these events depends in part upon the effectiveness of our disaster preparedness and response planning as well as business continuity planning. however, we cannot be certain that our plans will be adequate or implemented properly in the event of an actual disaster or other catastrophic situation. our ability to realize deferred tax assets deferred tax assets represent the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine whether they are realizable. factors in management's determination consist of the performance of the business, including the ability to generate taxable income from operations, and tax-planning strategies. if, based on available information, it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized, we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 table of contents our dependence on shopping malls and other retail centers to attract customers to our stores many of our stores are located in shopping malls and other retail centers that benefit from the ability of “anchor” retail tenants, generally large department stores, and other attractions, to generate sufficient levels of consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. any decline in the volume of consumer traffic at shopping centers, whether because of the economic slowdown, a decline in the popularity of shopping centers, the closing of anchor stores or otherwise, could result in reduced sales at our stores and excess inventory. we may have to respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could materially adversely impact our margins and operating results. the impact of potential consolidation of commercial and retail landlords continued consolidation in the commercial retail real estate market could affect our ability to successfully negotiate favorable rental terms for our stores in the future. should significant consolidation continue, a large proportion of our store base could be concentrated with one or a few entities that could then be in a position to dictate unfavorable terms to us due to their significant negotiating leverage. if we are unable to negotiate favorable lease terms with these entities, this could affect our ability to profitably operate our stores, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. the effect of external economic factors on our pension plan  our future funding obligations with respect to our defined benefit pension plan, which was frozen in 2007, will depend upon the future performance of the pension plan assets, interest rates used to determine funding levels, actuarial data and experience and any changes in government laws and regulations. our pension plan holds mutual funds that invest in equity and debt securities. if the net market values of these securities, interest rates or asset returns decline, our ongoing contribution obligations under the pension plan could increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the impact of climate change on our business     there is growing concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures due to an increased concentration of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases (ghg) in the atmosphere have caused and will continue to cause significant changes in weather patterns. increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could result in a shortage of raw materials used to produce our merchandise, disrupt our supply chain, deplete natural resources and/or impact demand for our merchandise. we do not have any operations that are currently subject to any government-enforced ghg emissions caps, trading programs or reporting requirements. in fiscal 2011, we completed a carbon footprint estimation study to better understand the impact of our emissions sources from our u.s. corporate offices, distribution center and retail stores, as a first step in our climate change mitigation efforts. although the effects, if any, of climate change on our business and results of operations are currently difficult to ascertain or quantify, public expectations for reductions in ghg emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us and our third-party suppliers to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. in addition, our operations may be impacted by regulatory changes related to climate change and ghg emissions, which may increase our compliance costs and adversely impact our profitability. item 1b. unresolved