item 1a. risk factors. set forth below is a summary of the material risks to an investment in our securities, which should be considered carefully in evaluating such an investment. these are not the only risks our company faces. we may also be adversely affected by additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. if any of the risks were to materialize, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition may be materially adversely impacted , which might cause the value of our securities to decline. please also see “statement regarding forward-looking disclosures” in the section immediately preceding item 1 of this report. our ability to anticipate and respond to changing client preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner our success largely depends on our ability to consistently gauge fashion trends and provide a balanced assortment of merchandise that satisfies client demands for each of our brands in a timely manner. any missteps may affect inventory levels, since we enter into agreements to manufacture and purchase our merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends and economic conditions could lead to missed opportunities, excess inventory and more frequent markdowns or inventory shortages, all of which could negatively impact sales and gross margin performance and have a material adverse effect on our business. merchandise missteps could also negatively impact our image with our clients and result in diminished brand loyalty. our ability to maintain our brand image, engage new and existing clients and gain market share our ability to maintain our brand image and reputation is integral to our business as well as the implementation of strategies to expand it. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands will depend largely on the success of our design, merchandising and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high-quality client experience. in addition, while our brands are mature and we have extensive client lists, our success depends, in part, on our ability to keep existing clients engaged and attract new clients to shop our brands. our business could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives for either or both of our brands and failure to achieve consistent, positive performance at both of our brands simultaneously could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. in addition, our ability to address the challenges of declining store traffic, including at factory outlet centers, in a highly promotional, low growth environment may impact our ability to maintain and gain market share and also impact our sales and profitability. the effect of competitive pressures from other retailers the specialty retail industry is highly competitive. we compete with local, national and international department stores, specialty and discount stores, catalogs and internet businesses offering similar categories of merchandise. we face a variety of competitive challenges, including anticipating and quickly responding to changing client demands or preferences; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to our clients in several diverse demographic markets; sourcing merchandise efficiently; and developing innovative, high-quality merchandise in styles that appeal to our clients in ways that favorably distinguish us from our competitors. in addition, many of our competitors are companies with substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources. increased levels of promotional activity by our competitors, some of which may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can, both online and in stores, may negatively impact our sales and profitability. there is no assurance that we can compete successfully with these companies in the future. in addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations, lease terms and qualified associates. increased competition in these areas may result in higher costs, which could reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our results of operations.  8 our reliance on key management and our ability to attract and retain qualified associates our success depends to a significant extent upon both the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain qualified management talent in the future. our senior executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in the retail business and have made significant contributions to the growth and success of our brands. competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense; and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot retain our key executives or if we fail to attract additional qualified individuals. our performance also depends in large part on the talents and contributions of engaged and skilled associates in all areas of our organization. if we are unable to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain talented individuals, we may be unable to compete effectively and our business could be adversely impacted. our ability to successfully optimize implementation of our omni-channel retail strategy and maintain a relevant and reliable omni-channel experience for our clients we are committed to growing our business through a omni-channel retail strategy. our goal is to assist our clients in accessing our brands whenever and wherever they choose to shop. in support of this goal, we successfully launched the first phase of our omni-channel initiative during the third quarter of fiscal 2012, allowing store order fulfillment of internet sales. our success depends to a large degree on our ability to plan and manage inventory levels and the fulfillment of orders, address operational issues in stores and online and further align both channels to optimize our omni-channel retail strategy. in addition, our success also depends on our ability to anticipate and implement innovations in sales and marketing technology to appeal to existing and potential clients who increasingly rely on multiple portals, including mobile technologies, to meet their shopping needs. failure to enhance our technology and marketing efforts to align with our clients’ shopping preferences could significantly impair our ability to meet our strategic business and financial goals. if we do not successfully optimize the implementation of our omni-channel retail strategy or if it does not achieve its intended results, we may experience an adverse impact on our business. our ability to manage inventory levels and changes in merchandise mix as well as optimize the operational aspects of our omni-channel fulfillment strategy the long lead times required for a substantial portion of our merchandise make client demand difficult to predict and responding quickly to changes challenging. though we have the ability to source certain product categories with shorter lead times, we enter into contracts for a substantial portion of our merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. our financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to manage inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in client demand patterns. inventory levels in excess of client demand may result in excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned sales and gross margin. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our merchandise, we may experience inventory shortages resulting in missed sales and lost revenues. either of these events could significantly affect our operating results and brand image. our margins may also be impacted by changes in our merchandise mix and a shift toward merchandise with lower selling prices. these changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, our omni-channel fulfillment strategy, which aims to help optimize the client experience, improve merchandising decisions and support our omni-channel operations, creates additional complexities in our ability to manage inventory levels, as well as certain operational issues in stores and online, including packaging, shipping, timeliness and returns. if we are unable to successfully manage the inventory complexities and operational issues associated with our omni-channel fulfillment strategy, we may experience an adverse impact on our business. our ability to successfully upgrade and maintain our information systems in a timely and secure manner to support the needs of the organization we rely heavily on information systems to manage our operations, including a full range of retail, financial, sourcing and merchandising systems. we regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems, as well as leverage new technologies to support our growth strategies. in addition, we have implemented enterprise-wide initiatives that are intended to standardize business processes and optimize performance. any delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or integrating them with current systems or the failure to implement our initiatives in an orderly and timely fashion could result in additional investment of time and resources, which could impair our ability to improve existing operations and support future growth, and ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business.  9 the reliability and capacity of our information systems are critical. despite preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time-to-time to damage or interruption from, among other things, natural disasters, technical malfunctions, inadequate systems capacity, human error, power outages, computer viruses and security breaches. any disruptions affecting our information systems could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, any failure to maintain adequate system security controls to protect our computer assets and sensitive data, including associate and client data, from unauthorized access, disclosure or use could damage our reputation with our associates and our clients. finally, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends, in part, on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans. as a component of our ongoing strategy to increase efficiencies, monitor costs and improve our information technology capabilities, we rely on third parties for products and implementation and/or management of certain aspects of our information systems and infrastructure. many of the functions that are performed by third parties are performed in offshore locations. our agreements with those third parties require them to maintain certain levels of care and security with respect to our information systems and our data. failure by any of these third parties to implement and/or manage our information systems and infrastructure effectively and securely could disrupt our operations, adversely affect our clients’ shopping experience and negatively impact our profitability. furthermore, the use of offshore service providers may expose us to risks related to local political, economic, social or environmental conditions (including acts of terrorism, the outbreak of war or the occurrence of natural disasters), restrictive actions by foreign governments or changes in united states laws and regulations. risks associated with internet sales we sell merchandise over the internet through our websites. our internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • the failure to successfully implement new systems, system enhancements and internet platforms, including our omni-channel and online international order fulfillment and enhanced mobile capability; • the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, causing, among other things, website downtimes and other technical failures; • the reliance on third-party computer hardware/software providers; • the reliance on third-party order fulfillment providers; • rapid technological change; • the diversion of sales from our stores; • liability for online content; • violations of federal, state, foreign or other applicable laws, including those relating to online privacy; • credit card fraud; and • telecommunications failures and vulnerability to electronic break-ins and other similar disruptions. our failure to successfully address and respond to these risks could negatively impact sales, increase costs and damage the reputation of our brands. the impact of a privacy breach and the resulting effect on our business and reputation we rely heavily on digital technologies for the successful operation of our business, including electronic messaging, digital marketing efforts and the collection and retention of client data and associate information. we also rely on other third parties to process credit card transactions, perform online e-commerce and social media activities and retain data relating to the company’s financial position and results of operations, strategic initiatives and other important information. despite the robust security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to cyber-security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. any misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, whether by us or by our third-party service providers, could adversely affect our business and operations, including severely damaging our reputation and our relationships with our clients, associates and investors and expose us to risks of litigation and liability. in addition, we may incur significant remediation costs in the event of a cyber-security breach or incident, including liability for stolen client or associate information, repairing system damage or providing credit monitoring or other benefits to affected clients or associates. we may also incur increased costs to comply with various applicable laws or industry standards regarding use and/or unauthorized disclosure of personal information. these and other cyber-security-related compliance, prevention and remediation costs may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.  10 our reliance on third-party manufacturers and key vendors we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities, and therefore, depend on independent third parties to manufacture our merchandise. as such, we face the risk of increased manufacturing costs and cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control and failure to meet production deadlines. in addition, we source our merchandise from a select group of manufacturers and continue to strengthen our relationships with these key vendors. while this strategy has benefits, it also has risks. if one or more of our key vendors were to cease working with us, the flow of merchandise to our stores and clients could be impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. in addition, we cannot predict the impact of world-wide political or economic conditions on our major suppliers. our suppliers may be unable to obtain adequate credit or access to liquidity to finance their operations. our suppliers also continue to face economic pressure as a result of rising wages and inflation, which could lead to vendor consolidation. while we have contingency plans for such potential risks, a manufacturer’s failure to continue working with us, to ship merchandise to us on a timely basis or to meet the required product safety, quality and social compliance standards could cause supply shortages, failure to meet client expectations and damage to our brands. the effect of fluctuations in sourcing costs the raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high or low demand for fabrics, labor conditions, transportation or freight costs, currency fluctuations, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, inflation and economic, climate and other unpredictable factors. we take steps to mitigate sourcing pressures from fluctuating raw material costs by making advance commitments on key core fabrics when required, leveraging our strong vendor relationships and using country sourcing flexibility. despite these measures, an increase in the demand for, the price of and/or a decrease in the availability of the raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our clients’ expectations. additionally, increases in labor costs, as well as a shortage of skilled labor in certain areas of china, may also impact our sourcing costs. the cost of transportation has also been increasing, and these cost pressures are likely to persist. we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher sourcing costs onto our clients, which could negatively impact our profitability. our reliance on foreign sources of production we purchase a significant portion of our merchandise from foreign suppliers. as a result, we are subject to various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: • fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies or restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries; • foreign laws and regulations; • imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas or other restrictions that may limit the quantity of our merchandise that may be imported into the united states or canada from countries in regions where our merchandise is manufactured; • significant delays or disruptions in the delivery of cargo due to port security issues, labor disputes or shortages, local business practices or weather conditions; • imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports or exports; • imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duties in response to an investigation as to whether a particular product being sold in the united states or canada at less than fair value may cause (or threaten to cause) material injury to the relevant domestic industry; • financial or political instability or terrorist acts in any of the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured or the transportation channels through which it passes; • the impact of natural disasters, extreme weather, public health concerns or other catastrophes on our foreign sourcing offices and vendor manufacturing operations; • potential cancellation of orders or recalls of any merchandise that does not meet our product safety and quality standards or is not manufactured in accordance with our social compliance requirements; and • increased security requirements applicable to imported goods and increased inspections of import shipments by domestic authorities. any sudden disruptions in the manufacture or import of our merchandise caused by adverse changes in these or any other factors could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  11 our dependence on our louisville distribution center and other third-party distribution and transportation providers our wholly-owned and operated primary distribution center in louisville, kentucky manages the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of the majority of merchandise to our stores. we also utilize third-party distribution facilities in city of industry, california and toronto, canada for distribution support to our stores. in addition, sales at our websites are primarily processed by a third-party fulfillment provider with facilities in bolingbrook, illinois. independent third-party transportation companies then deliver merchandise from these facilities to our stores and/or our clients. any significant interruption in the operation of our louisville distribution center or our third-party distribution, fulfillment or transportation providers for any reason, including as a result of natural disasters, accidents, inclement weather, system failures, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes or other unforeseen causes, could adversely impact our business by delaying or impairing our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores and/or our clients. these interruptions could result in, among other things, inventory issues, increased costs, lower sales and a loss of loyalty to our brands. our ability to execute brand extensions and other growth strategies, including international expansion part of our business strategy is to grow our existing brands and identify and develop new growth opportunities. the launch of new merchandise offerings or concepts may require significant capital expenditures and management oversight. any such plan is subject to risks, such as client acceptance, competition and product differentiation. there is no assurance that these merchandise offerings or concepts will be successful or that our overall profitability will increase as a result. in addition, if we fail to properly execute our plans, or fail to identify alternative strategies, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. our growth strategy may also include plans to develop new strategic partnerships as well as expand our presence in both new and existing markets, including international markets, as we did in late 2012 with the opening of our first stores in canada and the introduction of international shipping capabilities at our websites in the first quarter of 2013. we have very limited experience operating outside of the united states, where we may face established competitors. international markets also present unique risks, including different operational characteristics in the areas of employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate, finance and law. furthermore, consumer demand and behavior, as well as preferences and purchasing trends, may differ. other challenges may include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, political instability and foreign governmental regulation. as a result of these and other factors, our efforts to enter foreign markets may not be successful, or the sales and gross margin generated by our foreign operations may not be in line with our expectations. in addition, international expansion, including any difficulties that we may encounter if we were to expand to other international markets, may divert financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations and/or require us to increase our costs to manage such expansion, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, as we continue to implement our plans for international expansion, we are subject to certain u.s. laws, including the foreign corrupt practices act, as well as to the laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. we must use all commercially reasonable efforts to ensure compliance with these laws. any violations of such laws could subject us to sanctions or other penalties, which could negatively affect our reputation, business and operating results. our ability to secure and protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights we believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are critical to our success. even though we register and defend our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, there is no assurance that our actions will protect us from the prior registration by others or prevent others from infringing our trademarks and intellectual property rights or seeking to block sales of our products as infringements of their trademarks and intellectual property rights. further, the laws of foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. because we have not registered without opposition all of our trademarks in all categories, or in all foreign countries in which we currently manufacture merchandise or may manufacture or sell merchandise in the future, our ability to source merchandise from international suppliers or pursue international expansion could be negatively impacted. any litigation regarding our trademarks could be time-consuming and costly. moreover, the loss of exclusive use of our trademarks and other proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements our business is subject to legal and regulatory requirements in the united states and abroad, including, without limitation, those required by the sec, the new york stock exchange, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and securities, tax, employment and anti-bribery laws and regulations. in addition, in the future, there may be new legal or regulatory requirements or more stringent interpretations of applicable requirements, which could increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance.  12 while it is our policy and practice to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements and while our procedures and internal controls are designed to ensure such compliance, a finding that we or our vendors or agents are out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies or criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and stock price. in addition, even the claim of a violation of applicable laws or regulations could negatively affect our reputation. the effect of general economic conditions our financial performance is dependent on consumer confidence and levels of consumer spending, which may remain volatile for the foreseeable future. some of the factors impacting consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions; fiscal and monetary policies of governments; wages and unemployment; consumer debt; reductions in net worth based on market declines or declines in the residential real estate and mortgage markets; tax policies; increases in fuel and energy prices; changes in interest rates and the domestic and international political environment. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. a downturn in the economy could affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and lead to excess inventory levels, which could adversely impact our liquidity, capital resources, results of operations and continued growth. in addition, as a result of the instability in the global financial markets, there is continued diminished liquidity and credit availability and there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected or that our capital resources will at all times be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs. although we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future, any renewed tightening of the credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. our revolving credit facility also has financial covenants and certain restrictions which, if not met, may further impede our ability to access funds. we also have significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents on deposit at fdic-insured financial institutions that are currently in excess of federally insured limits and therefore, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses with respect to cash on deposit in excess of such limits. the impact of fluctuations in sales and profitability on our stock price a variety of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable sales results and profit margins. these factors include fashion trends and client preferences, changes in our merchandise mix, competition, economic conditions, extreme or unseasonable weather, effective inventory management and new store openings, among other things. there is no assurance that we will achieve positive levels of sales and earnings growth and any decline in our future growth or performance could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. our stock price has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility as a result of many factors, including global economic conditions, broad market fluctuations, our operating performance and public perception of the prospects for our brands or for the women’s apparel industry in general. failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to comparable sales, net revenue, operating margins and earnings per share, could result in a decline in the market value of our stock. effects of natural disasters, war, terrorism, public health concerns or other catastrophes natural disasters, extreme weather and public health concerns, including severe infectious diseases, could impact our ability to open and run our corporate offices, distribution center, stores and other operations in affected areas and/or negatively impact our foreign sourcing offices and the operations of our vendors. in addition, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends, in part, on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans. lower client traffic due to the effect of natural disasters or extreme weather, security concerns, war or the threat of war and public health concerns could result in decreased sales that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events in the united states and world-wide could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, disrupt the production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise or lead to lower client traffic. our ability to mitigate the adverse impact of these events depends, in part, upon the effectiveness of our disaster preparedness and response planning as well as business continuity planning. however, we cannot be certain that our plans will be adequate or implemented properly in the event of an actual disaster or other catastrophic situation. in addition, although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us.  13 manufacturer compliance with our social compliance program requirements we require our independent manufacturers to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, as well as our global supplier principles and guidelines, which cover many areas, including labor, health, safety, environmental and other legal standards. we monitor compliance with these guidelines using third-party monitoring firms. although we have an active program to provide training for our independent manufacturers and monitor their compliance with these standards, we do not control the manufacturers or their practices. any failure of our independent manufacturers to comply with our global supplier principles and guidelines or labor or other local laws in the country of manufacture, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the united states, could disrupt the shipment of merchandise to our stores, force us to locate alternative manufacturing sources, reduce demand for our merchandise and/or damage our reputation. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. our ability to successfully manage store growth and optimize the productivity and profitability of our store portfolio our continued growth and success depend, in part, on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores, enhance and remodel existing stores on a timely and profitable basis and optimize store performance by closing under-performing stores. accomplishing our store expansion goals in the united states and canada, and planned expansion into other markets, depends upon a number of factors, including locating suitable sites and negotiating favorable lease terms. we must also be able to effectively renew and renegotiate lease terms for existing stores. managing the profitability of our stores and optimizing store productivity also depends, in large part, on the continued success and client acceptance of our ann taylor and loft store formats, as well as our ability to achieve planned store growth for our brands in fiscal 2014 and beyond. hiring and training qualified associates, particularly at the store management level, maintaining overall good relations with our associates and vendors and managing inventory and distribution effectively to meet the needs of new and existing clients on a timely basis are also important to our store operations. there is no assurance that we will achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively or operate our stores profitably. in addition, the inability to achieve acceptable results in new and existing stores could lead to store closures and/or asset impairment charges, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to grow. our dependence on shopping malls and other retail centers to attract clients to our stores and ability to negotiate acceptable lease terms many of our stores are located in shopping malls and other retail centers that benefit from the ability of “anchor” retail tenants, generally large department stores, and other attractions, to generate sufficient levels of consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. any decline in the volume of consumer traffic at shopping centers, whether because of the economic slowdown, a decline in the popularity of shopping centers, the closing of anchor stores or otherwise, could result in reduced sales at our stores and excess inventory. we may have to respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, continued consolidation in the commercial retail real estate market could affect our ability to successfully negotiate favorable rental terms for our stores in the future. should significant consolidation continue, a large proportion of our store base could be concentrated with one or a few entities that could then be in a position to dictate unfavorable terms to us due to their significant negotiating leverage. if we are unable to negotiate favorable lease terms with these entities, this could affect our ability to profitably operate our stores, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. the effect of tax matters on our business operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and foreign jurisdictions. our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and regulations and accounting rules and regulations or interpretations thereof, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow in future periods. in addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by various tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcome of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability. item 1b. unresolved