item 1a. risk factors. set forth below is a summary of the material risks to an investment in our securities, which should be considered carefully in evaluating such an investment. the risks described below are not the only risks our business faces. we may also be adversely affected by additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. if any of the below risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could suffer, which might cause the value of our securities to decline. please also see “statement regarding forward-looking disclosures” in the section immediately preceding item 1 of this report. our ability to anticipate and respond to changing client preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner our success largely depends on our ability to consistently gauge fashion trends and provide a balanced assortment of merchandise that satisfies client demands for each of our brands in a timely manner. any missteps may affect inventory levels, since we enter into agreements to manufacture and purchase our merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends and economic conditions could lead to lower sales, missed opportunities, excess inventories and more frequent markdowns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. merchandise missteps could also negatively impact our image with our clients and result in diminished brand loyalty. our ability to maintain the value of our brands and engage new and existing clients our success depends on the value of our ann taylor and loft brands. the ann taylor and loft names are integral to our business, as well as to the implementation of strategies for expanding our business. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands will depend largely on the success of our design, merchandising and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality client experience. in addition, while our brands are mature and we have extensive client lists, our success depends, in part, on our ability to keep existing clients engaged and attract new clients to shop our brands. our business could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives for one or both of our brands and our public image and reputation could be tarnished by negative publicity. any of these events could negatively impact sales and profitability. our ability to manage inventory levels and changes in merchandise mix the long lead times required for a substantial portion of our merchandise make client demand difficult to predict and responding quickly to changes challenging. though we have the ability to source certain product categories with shorter lead times, we enter into contracts for a substantial portion of our merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. our financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to manage inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in client demand patterns. in addition, our multi-channel fulfillment strategy, which aims to help optimize merchandising decisions, improve client service and support our multi-channel operations, creates additional complexities in our ability to manage inventory levels. inventory levels in excess of client demand may result in excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned gross margin. on the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our merchandise, we may experience inventory shortages resulting in missed sales and lost revenues. either of these events could significantly affect our operating results and brand image. in addition, our margins may be impacted by changes in our merchandise mix and a shift toward merchandise with lower selling prices. these changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 7 table of contents our reliance on key management and our ability to attract and retain qualified associates our success depends to a significant extent upon both the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain qualified management talent in the future. our senior executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in the retail business and have made significant contributions to the growth and success of our brands. competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot retain our key executives or if we fail to attract additional qualified individuals. our performance also depends in large part on the talents and contributions of engaged and skilled associates in all areas of our organization. if we are unable to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain talented individuals, we may be unable to compete effectively and our business could be adversely impacted. our ability to execute brand extensions and other growth strategies, including international expansion part of our business strategy is to grow our existing brands and identify and develop new growth opportunities. the launch of new merchandise offerings or concepts may require significant capital expenditures and management oversight. any such plan is subject to risks such as client acceptance, competition and product differentiation. there is no assurance that these merchandise offerings or concepts will be successful or that our overall profitability will increase as a result. our growth strategy may also include plans to expand our presence in both new and existing markets, as well as internationally, as we did in late 2012 with the opening of our first stores in canada. we have no prior experience operating outside of the united states, including canada, where we may face established competitors. international markets also present unique risks, including different operational characteristics in the areas of employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate, finance and law. furthermore, consumer demand and behavior, as well as preferences and purchasing trends, may differ. other challenges may include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, political instability and foreign governmental regulation. as a result of these and other factors, sales of our merchandise in other markets may not be successful, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we anticipate. in addition, any difficulties that we may encounter if we were to expand to other international markets may divert financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. our ability to successfully upgrade and maintain our information systems in a timely and secure manner to support the needs of the organization we rely heavily on information systems to manage our operations, including a full range of retail, financial, sourcing and merchandising systems, and regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems. the reliability and capacity of our information systems are critical. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, natural disasters, technical malfunctions, inadequate systems capacity, power outages, computer viruses, and security breaches. any disruptions affecting our information systems, or any delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or in integrating them with current systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business. any failure to maintain adequate system security controls to protect our computer assets and sensitive data, including client data, from unauthorized access, disclosure or use could also damage our reputation with our clients. in addition, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends in part on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans. as a component of our ongoing strategy to increase efficiencies, monitor costs and improve our information technology capabilities, we rely on third parties for the implementation and/or management of certain aspects of our information technology infrastructure. many of the functions that are performed by third parties are performed in their offshore locations. our agreements with those third parties require them to maintain certain levels of care and security with respect to our information systems and our data. however, failure by any of these third parties to implement and/or manage our information technology infrastructure effectively and securely could disrupt our operations, adversely affect our clients' shopping experience and negatively impact our profitability. furthermore, the use of offshore service providers may expose us to risks related to local political, economic, social or environmental conditions (including acts of terrorism, the outbreak of war, or the occurrence of natural disaster), restrictive actions by foreign governments or changes in united states laws and regulations. 8 table of contents in addition, we are implementing enterprise-wide initiatives intended to standardize business processes across brands and functions and optimize performance. there can be no assurances that these initiatives will deliver the expected benefits or that there will not be delays in the expected timing of implementation. it is possible that the costs to complete any related system conversions may exceed current expectations, which could result in a significant additional investment of time and resources and add increased implementation risk. in addition, although we strive to ensure the orderly implementation of these initiatives, the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes are undertaken. if our business transformation initiatives fail or are significantly delayed, our ability to improve existing operations and support future growth could be impaired or delayed, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. our ability to secure and protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights we believe that our “anntaylor,” “loft” and “anntaylor loft” trademarks are critical to our success. even though we register and defend our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, there is no assurance that our actions will protect us from the prior registration by others or prevent others from infringing our trademarks and intellectual property rights or seeking to block sales of our products as infringements of their trademarks and intellectual property rights. further, the laws of foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. because we have not registered without opposition all of our trademarks in all categories, or in all foreign countries in which we currently manufacture merchandise or may manufacture or sell merchandise in the future, our ability to source merchandise from international suppliers or pursue international expansion could be negatively impacted. effects of natural disasters, war, terrorism, public health concerns or other catastrophes natural disasters and public health concerns, including severe infectious diseases, could impact our ability to open and run our corporate offices and stores in affected areas and/or negatively impact our foreign sourcing offices and the manufacturing operations of our vendors. in addition, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends, in part, on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans. lower client traffic due to the effect of natural disasters, security concerns, war or the threat of war and public health concerns could result in decreased sales that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events in the united states and world-wide could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, disrupt the production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise or lead to lower client traffic in regional shopping centers. our ability to mitigate the adverse impact of these events depends, in part, upon the effectiveness of our disaster preparedness and response planning as well as business continuity planning. however, we cannot be certain that our plans will be adequate or implemented properly in the event of an actual disaster or other catastrophic situation. risks associated with internet sales we sell merchandise over the internet through our online stores, www.anntaylor.com and www.loft.com. our internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • the successful implementation of new systems, system enhancements and internet platforms, including our multi-channel and online international order fulfillment and enhanced mobile capability; • the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, causing, among other things, website downtimes and other technical failures; • reliance on third-party computer hardware/software; • reliance on third-party order fulfillment providers; • rapid technological change; • diversion of sales from our stores; • liability for online content; • violations of federal, state or other applicable laws, including those relating to online privacy; • credit card fraud; and • telecommunications failures and vulnerability to electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. our failure to successfully address and respond to these risks could reduce internet sales, increase costs and damage the reputation of our brands. 9 table of contents our reliance on third-party manufacturers and key vendors we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend on independent third parties to manufacture our merchandise. we are at risk for increases in manufacturing costs and we cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control and failure to meet production deadlines. in addition, we source our merchandise from a select group of manufacturers and we continue to strengthen our relationships with these key vendors. while this strategy has benefits, it also has risks. if one or more of our key vendors were to cease working with us, the flow of merchandise to our stores could be impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. in addition, world-wide economic conditions continue to negatively impact businesses around the world, and the impact of those conditions on our major suppliers cannot be predicted. our suppliers may be unable to obtain adequate credit or access liquidity to finance their operations. while we have contingency plans for such potential interruptions, a manufacturer's failure to continue working with us, to ship merchandise to us on a timely basis or to meet the required product safety, quality and social compliance standards could cause supply shortages, failure to meet client expectations and damage to our brands. the effect of fluctuations in sourcing costs the raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, labor conditions, transportation or freight costs, currency fluctuations, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. we take steps to mitigate sourcing pressures from fluctuating raw material costs by making advance commitments on key core fabrics when required, leveraging our strong vendor relationships and using country sourcing flexibility. despite these measures, an increase in the demand for, the price of and/or a decrease in the availability of the raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our clients' needs. additionally, increases in labor costs as well as a shortage of labor in certain areas of china, may also impact our sourcing costs. we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher sourcing costs onto our clients, which could negatively impact our profitability. our reliance on foreign sources of production we purchase a significant portion of our merchandise from foreign suppliers. as a result, we are subject to various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: • fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies or restrictions on the transfer of funds; • imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas or other restrictions that may limit the quantity of our merchandise that may be imported into the united states or canada from countries in regions where we do business; • significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to port security considerations; • imposition of duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; • imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duties in response to an investigation as to whether a particular product being sold in the united states or canada at less than fair value may cause (or threaten to cause) material injury to the relevant domestic industry; • financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured or the transportation channels through which it passes; • impact of natural disasters and public health concerns on our foreign sourcing offices and vendor manufacturing operations; • potential cancellation of orders or recalls of any merchandise that does not meet our product safety and quality standards or is not manufactured in accordance with our social compliance requirements; and • disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. any sudden disruptions in the manufacture or import of our merchandise caused by adverse changes in these or any other factors could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 10 table of contents our ability to successfully manage store growth and optimize the productivity and profitability of our store portfolio our continued growth and success depend, in part, on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores, enhance and remodel existing stores on a timely and profitable basis, and optimize store performance by closing under-performing stores. accomplishing our store expansion goals in the united states and planned expansion into other markets, such as canada, depends upon a number of factors, including locating suitable sites and negotiating favorable lease terms. we must also be able to effectively renew and renegotiate lease terms for existing stores. managing the profitability of our stores and optimizing store productivity also depends, in large part, on the continued success and client acceptance of our new ann taylor and loft store formats, as well as our ability to achieve planned store growth for our brands in fiscal 2013 and beyond. hiring and training qualified associates, particularly at the store management level, and maintaining overall good relations with our associates, is also important to our store operations. there is no assurance that we will achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively or operate our stores profitably. the impact of a privacy breach and the resulting effect on our business and reputation we rely heavily on digital technologies for the successful operation of our business, including electronic messaging, digital marketing efforts, collection and retention of client data and employee information, processing of credit card transactions, online e-commerce and social media activities and retention of data relating to the company's financial position and strategic initiatives. despite the robust security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to cyber-security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. any misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, whether by us or by our third-party service providers, could adversely affect our business and operations, including severely damaging our reputation and our relationships with our clients, employees and investors and exposing us to risks of litigation and liability. in addition, we may incur significant remediation costs in the event of a cyber-security breach or incident, including liability for stolen client or associate information, repairing system damage or providing credit monitoring or other benefits to affected clients. we may also incur increased costs to comply with various applicable laws regarding unauthorized disclosure of personal information. these and other cyber-security-related compliance, prevention and remediation costs, may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. manufacturer compliance with our social compliance program requirements we require our independent manufacturers to comply with our global supplier principles and guidelines, which cover many areas including labor, health and safety and environmental standards. we monitor compliance with these guidelines using third-party monitoring firms. although we have an active program to provide training for our independent manufacturers and monitor their compliance with these standards, we do not control the manufacturers or their practices. any failure of our independent manufacturers to comply with our global supplier principles and guidelines or local laws in the country of manufacture could disrupt the shipment of merchandise to our stores, force us to locate alternative manufacturing sources, reduce demand for our merchandise and/or damage our reputation. failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements our business is subject to legal and regulatory requirements in the u.s. and abroad, including securities, employment and anti-bribery laws and regulations.  in addition, in the future there may be new legal or regulatory requirements or more stringent interpretations of applicable requirements, which could increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance.  while it is our policy and practice to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements and while our procedures and internal controls are designed to ensure such compliance, a finding that we are out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies or criminal sanctions, which could materially adversely impact our business.  in addition, even the claim of a violation of applicable laws or regulations could negatively affect our reputation. 11 table of contents the effect of general economic conditions our financial performance is subject to world-wide economic conditions and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and levels of consumer spending, which may remain volatile for the foreseeable future. some of the factors impacting discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, wages and unemployment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on market declines, residential real estate and mortgage markets, tax policies, increases in fuel and energy prices, consumer confidence, failure to increase the debt ceiling in the u.s. and other macroeconomic factors. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. a downturn in the economy could affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations and continued growth. in addition, as a result of the instability in the global financial markets, there is continued diminished liquidity and credit availability and there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected or that our capital resources will at all times be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs. although we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our $250 million fourth amended and restated credit agreement (the “credit facility”) will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future, any renewed tightening of the credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. our credit facility also has financial covenants which, if not met, may further impede our ability to access funds under the credit facility. we also have significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents on deposit at fdic-insured financial institutions that are currently in excess of federally insured limits. since the deposit insurance provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform act expired on december 31, 2012, and because our credit facility contains certain restrictions on permitted investments, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses with respect to cash on deposit in excess of federally insured limits. the effect of competitive pressures from other retailers the specialty retail industry is highly competitive. we compete with local, national and international department stores, specialty and discount stores, catalogs and internet businesses offering similar categories of merchandise. many of our competitors are companies with substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources. increased levels of promotional activity by our competitors, some of which may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can, both online and in stores, may negatively impact our sales and profitability. there is no assurance that we can compete successfully with these companies in the future. in addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations, lease terms and qualified associates. increased competition in these areas may result in higher costs, which could reduce our sales and operating margins and adversely affect our results of operations. our dependence on our louisville distribution center and other third-party distribution and transportation providers our wholly-owned and operated distribution center in louisville, kentucky, manages the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of the majority of merchandise to our stores. we also utilize third-party distribution facilities in industry, california and toronto, canada for distribution support to our stores. in addition, sales at our online stores are primarily processed by a third-party fulfillment provider with facilities in bolingbrook, illinois. independent third-party transportation companies then deliver merchandise from these facilities to our stores and/or our clients. any significant interruption in the operation of our louisville distribution center, the third-party distribution facilities that we utilize or the domestic transportation infrastructure due to natural disasters, accidents, inclement weather, system failures, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, or other unforeseen causes, could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores and/or our clients, which could result in lower sales, a loss of loyalty to our brands and excess inventory. furthermore, we are susceptible to increases in fuel and other transportation costs that we may not be able to pass on to our clients, which could also adversely affect our results of operations. our dependence on shopping malls and other retail centers to attract clients to our stores many of our stores are located in shopping malls and other retail centers that benefit from the ability of “anchor” retail tenants, generally large department stores, and other attractions, to generate sufficient levels of consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. any decline in the volume of consumer traffic at shopping centers, whether because of the economic slowdown, a decline in the popularity of shopping centers, the closing of anchor stores or otherwise, could result in reduced sales at our stores and excess inventory. we may have to respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our margins and operating results. 12 table of contents in addition, continued consolidation in the commercial retail real estate market could affect our ability to successfully negotiate favorable rental terms for our stores in the future. should significant consolidation continue, a large proportion of our store base could be concentrated with one or a few entities that could then be in a position to dictate unfavorable terms to us due to their significant negotiating leverage. if we are unable to negotiate favorable lease terms with these entities, this could affect our ability to profitably operate our stores, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. the impact on our stock price relating to our level of sales and earnings growth a variety of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable sales results and profit margins. these factors include fashion trends and client preferences, changes in our merchandise mix, competition, economic conditions, weather, effective inventory management and new store openings, among other things. there is no assurance that we will achieve positive levels of sales and earnings growth, and any decline in our future growth or performance could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. our stock price has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility as a result of many factors, including global economic conditions, broad market fluctuations, our operating performance and public perception of the prospects for our brands or for the women's apparel industry in general. failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to comparable sales, net revenue, operating margins and earnings per share, would likely result in a decline in the market value of our stock. our ability to realize deferred tax assets deferred tax assets represent the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine whether they are realizable. factors in management's determination consist of the performance of the business, including the ability to generate taxable income from operations, and tax-planning strategies. if, based on available information, it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized, we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the effect of external economic factors on our pension plan  our future funding obligations with respect to our defined benefit pension plan, which was frozen in 2007, will depend upon the future performance of the pension plan assets, interest rates used to determine funding levels, actuarial data and experience and any changes in government laws and regulations. our pension plan assets are held in common collective trusts and mutual funds that invest in equity and debt securities. our ongoing pension expense and contribution obligations under our pension plan could be adversely impacted by changes in the net market value of our pension plan assets, fluctuating interest rates and/or declining asset returns, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. the impact of climate change on our business     there is growing concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures due to an increased concentration of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases (ghg) in the atmosphere have caused and will continue to cause significant changes in weather patterns. increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could result in a shortage of raw materials used to produce our merchandise, disrupt our supply chain, deplete natural resources and/or impact demand for our merchandise. we do not have any operations that are currently subject to any government-enforced ghg emissions caps, trading programs or reporting requirements. in fiscal 2011, we completed a carbon footprint estimation study to better understand the impact of our emissions sources from our u.s. corporate offices, distribution center and retail stores, and continue to take steps in our climate change mitigation efforts, such as implementing energy saving and carbon reduction technologies in our operations. although the effects, if any, of climate change on our business and results of operations are currently difficult to ascertain or quantify, public expectations for reductions in ghg emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us and our third-party suppliers to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. in addition, our operations may be impacted by regulatory changes related to climate change and ghg emissions, which may increase our compliance costs and adversely impact our profitability. item 1b. unresolved