item 1a. risk factors references in the risk factors to “ambac” are to ambac financial group, inc. references to “we,” “our,” “us” and “company” are to ambac, ambac assurance corporation, everspan financial guarantee corp., and ambac credit products llc as the context requires. capitalized terms used but not defined in this section shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k or in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contained in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k unless otherwise indicated. the reorganization plan may not be consummated if certain conditions are not met which would result in delay and significant expense to us, adversely impacting our operations during this period. consummation and effectiveness of the reorganization plan is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the following outstanding conditions: (i) the bankruptcy court shall have approved any supplement filed with respect to the reorganization plan; (ii) new organizational documents of ambac shall have been effected; (iii) ambac shall have executed and delivered all documents necessary to effectuate the issuance of the common stock and warrants pursuant to the reorganization plan; (iv) all authorizations, consents and regulatory approvals required, if any, in connection with the consummation of the reorganization plan shall have been obtained; (v) the terms of the irs settlement (as defined in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k) shall have been approved by the united states, and all conditions to the effectiveness of the irs settlement shall have been satisfied; (vi) the irs settlement and all transaction documents relating thereto shall have been executed by the parties thereto; (vii) the bankruptcy court shall have entered an order pursuant to bankruptcy rule 9019 approving the irs settlement; and (viii) all other actions, documents, certificates and agreements necessary to implement the reorganization plan shall have been effected or executed and delivered to the required parties and, to the extent required, filed with applicable governmental units in accordance with applicable laws. as noted above, the conditions to the consummation of the reorganization plan include the finalization of the irs settlement. finalization of such settlement requires the issuance by the congressional joint committee on taxation (the “joint committee”) of a “no adverse criticism” response, which is expected to be issued after the following conditions have been satisfied: (a) closing documents acceptable to the united states, ambac and the other parties to the irs settlement have been executed, (b) the irs settlement has been approved by the bankruptcy court and (c) ambac will have made payment of $1.9 million and ambac assurance and/or the segregated account will have made payment of $100 million to the united states. furthermore, the reorganization plan may not be consummated unless the rehabilitation court has approved the transactions contemplated in the mediation agreement. the rehabilitation court entered an order approving such transactions on november 10, 2011; however, such order has been appealed and may be overturned or stayed. on march 1, 2013, the wisconsin court of appeals entered an order dismissing this appeal for lack of standing; however, appellants may appeal that order to the wisconsin supreme court. moreover, the mediation agreement provides that the $30 million transferred by ambac assurance to an escrow account on march 15, 2012 may not be released from escrow to ambac, and the $350 million junior surplus note to be issued to ambac by the segregated account pursuant to the mediation agreement may not be issued, until such order becomes final and non-appealable. there can be no assurance that the order entered by the rehabilitation court will remain in effect. if such order is vacated or overturned, ambac may not receive the above-described cash grant or junior surplus note from ambac assurance or the segregated account, respectively. although several of the conditions to consummation and effectiveness of the reorganization plan have been satisfied as of the date hereof, there can be no assurance that the remaining outstanding conditions will be met. nor can ambac estimate when consummation and effectiveness of the reorganization plan will occur, even assuming that such remaining conditions will be satisfied. the failure to satisfy or obtain the necessary waivers with respect to such conditions in a timely manner could result in ambac seeking to modify the reorganization plan, pursuing an alternative chapter 11 plan of reorganization or electing to convert the chapter 11 case to a chapter 7 liquidation. modification of the reorganization plan or development of an alternative chapter 11 plan would result in delay and significant expense, thus imperiling ambac’s ability to successfully reorganize. furthermore, there can be no assurance that any alternative chapter 11 plan would be as favorable to holders of ambac securities and claims as those proposed in the reorganization plan. conversion to chapter 7 liquidation would, in the view of ambac, produce a less favorable outcome for holders of ambac securities and claims than would the reorganization plan. the irs settlement may not be finalized, which would negatively impact the ability of ambac to consummate the reorganization plan and expose the company to risks of litigation. although the joint committee has reviewed the offer letter and has indicated that it has no objection to the offer, there can be no assurance that the required closing documentation will be negotiated successfully in order for the joint committee   31 table of contents to issue a “no adverse criticism” response as required for the effectiveness of the irs settlement. as stated above, failure to finalize the irs settlement could imperil the ability of ambac to consummate its reorganization plan. moreover, a prolonged timetable in consummating the settlement could result in significant expense, threatening ambac’s ability to successfully reorganize. in the absence of a settlement, the irs dispute will proceed to trial. should the irs prevail in litigation, allowance of its claim as filed in the bankruptcy court would seriously jeopardize ambac’s ability to reorganize and may result in conversion to a chapter 7 case. characterization of losses on ambac assurance’s cds portfolio as capital losses for u.s. federal tax purposes could result in a material assessment for federal income taxes. ambac assurance’s portfolio of cds related to cdos of abs experienced significant losses. the majority of these cds contracts were on a “pay as you go” basis, and we believe that they were properly characterized as notional principal contracts for u.s. federal income tax purposes. generally, losses on notional principal contracts are ordinary losses. however, the federal income tax treatment of credit default swaps is an unsettled area of the tax law. as part of the ongoing audit of ambac’s 2007-2009 consolidated federal income tax returns and refund claims, the irs has proposed to disallow ambac’s (as the consolidated tax filer) deductions of cds losses as ordinary losses, effectively taking the position that they were more properly characterized as capital losses. on may 4, 2011 the irs filed a proof of claim in the bankruptcy court in the amount of approximately $800 million relating to the tax treatment of the cds contracts, which ambac opposed. as of december 31, 2012, ambac had nols amounting to approximately $8,165.6 million, which is comprised of $7,287.1 million in ordinary, $486.9 million in capital federal income tax losses, and $391.7 million in international losses. although the company believes its cds contracts are properly characterized as notional principal contracts, if the irs were to successfully assert the proposed disallowance resulting from its examination and its claim in the bankruptcy case, ambac would be subject to both a substantial reduction in its nols and would suffer a material assessment for u.s. federal income taxes. such assessments and reductions in nols would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and would seriously jeopardize ambac’s ability to reorganize and may result in conversion to a chapter 7 case. such assessments related to the tentative refunds, which amount to approximately $700 million, may be made by the internal revenue service at any time and, without prior notice to ambac, pursuant to section 6213(b) of the tax code. subject to applicable law, existing court orders and the terms of a stipulation requiring the irs to provide notice to ambac five business days before taking any enforcement action, the irs may then file a lien that attaches to ambac’s property interests, including the property interests of any member of the consolidated tax group, and commence collection efforts. if these events occur, the segregated account rehabilitation plan may be materially impacted and ambac’s ability to effectively reorganize may be seriously jeopardized. while these issues would be resolved upon finalization of the irs settlement, there can be no assurance that the irs settlement will be consummated. trading in our common stock prior to our emergence from bankruptcy is highly speculative and poses substantial risks as our reorganization plan reflects that our common stock will be cancelled and accordingly holders of such common stock will not receive any distribution with respect to, or be able to recover any portion of, such investment. if our reorganization plan is consummated, our existing common stock will be cancelled and extinguished and the holders thereof would not be entitled to receive, and would not receive or retain, any property or interest in property on account of such equity interests. amounts invested by such holders in our outstanding equity securities will not be recoverable. as such, our currently outstanding equity securities likely have no value. the investment value of our securities is highly speculative; furthermore, if and when we emerge from bankruptcy through the consummation of the reorganization plan, we might not be successful in pursuing our new business strategy or achieving any value for holders of such securities. the value of ambac is dependent upon the residual value of ambac assurance, the receipt of payments to be made by ambac assurance pursuant to the mediation agreement, the amended tsa and the cost allocation agreement, and ambac’s ability to generate new business. there can be no assurance that ambac will be able to realize residual value in ambac assurance, which is in run-off. in addition, the segregated account is subject to rehabilitation proceedings and under the control of the rehabilitator. it is presently unclear whether ambac assurance will be able to satisfy all of its obligations to policyholders or holders of its securities, making it highly unlikely that ambac assurance will pay dividends to ambac. furthermore, the payments to be made to ambac under the mediation agreement, the amended tsa and the cost allocation agreement are subject to contingencies that are difficult to predict, making the amount and timing of such payments uncertain. payments to be made under the amended tsa, in particular, depend on the generation of taxable income by ambac assurance and the amount of nols that can be utilized by ambac assurance prior to the utilization of nols that require payment to ambac. ambac assurance’s ability to generate taxable income is uncertain. moreover, losses incurred by ambac assurance since the amended tsa was executed have increased the amount of nols that can be utilized by ambac assurance without payment to ambac. due to these factors, there can be no assurance as to the amounts, if any, that ambac will receive from ambac assurance under the amended tsa.   32 table of contents we are exploring new business opportunities for ambac, which may involve the acquisition of assets or existing businesses or the development of businesses through new or existing subsidiaries. it is not possible at this time to predict the industry, revenues (including the amount of dividends that would be paid to ambac), future prospects or other characteristics of a future business, or the terms of a future acquisition. we are not limiting our search for business opportunities to any particular industry; therefore, our management may not be experienced in matters relating to the business of any such target and will rely upon its own reasonable efforts in accomplishing our business objectives. our efforts to pursue a new business opportunity may be unsuccessful or require significant financial or other resources, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. no assurance can be given that we will be able to locate or complete the acquisition or development of any business or, if acquired or developed, generate any revenues or be able to successfully integrate such business into our current operating structure. moreover, ambac’s ability to generate new business, including entering into new business apart from ambac assurance and everspan financial guarantee corp., is also subject to significant doubt, given the condition and circumstances of ambac assurance, the difficulty of leveraging or monetizing its other assets, and the uncertainty of its ability to raise capital. due to these factors, as well as those relating to ambac assurance as described above, the value of our securities is highly speculative. a long and protracted chapter 11 proceeding could disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our management from our operations and the implementation of our post-bankruptcy plan. so long as the chapter 11 proceeding continues, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort working on the reorganization, distracting focus from our business operations. a prolonged period of operating under chapter 11 protection may also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to effect a successful reorganization. intercompany disputes or disputes with oci may arise, which may have material adverse effects on the company. if the reorganization plan is not consummated, the company may lose the benefits of the amended plan settlement. in the absence of an agreement among ambac, the creditors’ committee, ambac assurance, the segregated account and oci with respect to the allocation of potential sources of value (principally nols) and expense sharing between ambac and ambac assurance, ambac or its creditors could take actions which would adversely affect ambac assurance and/or the segregated account. for example, ambac or its creditors could seek to impose a constructive trust with respect to cash payments received by ambac assurance and/or seek to re-organize ambac’s ownership interest in ambac assurance in order to achieve a deconsolidation of ambac and ambac assurance for tax purposes, with the result that ambac would become entitled to the use of all nols in existence on the date of such deconsolidation. such disputes and/or litigation between ambac and ambac assurance could prolong the chapter 11 proceeding, with resultant increases in the expenses of the chapter 11 proceeding, and could threaten ambac’s ability to successfully reorganize. additionally, such disputes and/or litigation could prompt oci to initiate rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance, either preemptively or in response to any such action; initiation of a rehabilitation proceeding with respect to ambac assurance could decrease the residual value, if any, of ambac assurance. the segregated account, ambac assurance, ambac and other affiliates have entered into agreements that govern certain activities of such entities. oci has certain enforcement rights with respect to such agreements and, as regulator of ambac assurance and as rehabilitator of the segregated account, has further authority over the activities of ambac assurance and the segregated account. disputes may arise over the interpretation of such agreements, the exercise or purported exercise of rights thereunder, or the performance of or failure or purported failure to perform obligations thereunder. disputes may also arise over certain actions taken or proposed to be taken by oci in reliance on its contractual or legal rights. any such dispute could have material adverse effects on the company, whether through litigation, failure to execute transactions sought by management, interference with corporate strategies, objectives or prerogatives, inefficient decision-making or execution, forced realignment of resources, increased costs, distractions to management, strained working relationships or otherwise. such effects would also increase the risk that oci would seek to initiate rehabilitation proceedings against ambac assurance. the rehabilitator is considering substantial amendments to the segregated account rehabilitation plan and/or the initiation of rehabilitation proceedings against ambac assurance, both of which would likely have adverse consequences to holders of ambac securities and may have adverse consequences to holders of securities insured by ambac assurance and could have material impact on our financial condition and results of operation. as described elsewhere herein, the issuance of surplus notes by ambac assurance or by the segregated account as contemplated by the current segregated account rehabilitation plan, or the issuance of other securities, instruments or obligations by the segregated account to satisfy claims under a revised segregated account rehabilitation plan (“other   33 table of contents instruments”), could subject ambac assurance to the risk of deconsolidation from ambac for tax purposes, which may also result in a section 382 limitation with respect to ambac assurance’s nols or an attribution of such nols to ambac, or could subject ambac assurance to the risk of recognizing significant cancellation of indebtedness income. as a result, the rehabilitator is considering substantial amendments to the segregated account rehabilitation plan and/or the initiation of rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance. such amendments to the segregated account rehabilitation plan (and, presumably, any rehabilitation plan with respect to ambac assurance) could include the elimination of the issuance of surplus notes by the segregated account and/or the imposition of transfer restrictions on any surplus notes issued by the segregated account. any such amendments to the segregated account rehabilitation plan could adversely affect the interests of ambac security holders and holders of securities insured by ambac assurance. notwithstanding that amendments to the segregated account rehabilitation plan and/or the initiation of rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance would be designed to preserve tax attributes for the ultimate benefit of policyholders, such amendments (or any rehabilitation plan with respect to ambac assurance) might have other adverse impacts on holders of securities insured by ambac assurance, including, without limitation, delays in receipt of cash in respect of claims, absence of surplus notes (or other instruments) in respect of claims and/or the imposition of trading restrictions on surplus notes or other instruments received in respect of claims. if surplus notes were eliminated from the segregated account rehabilitation plan (and other instruments were not issued in their place), then the portion of permitted claims on policies allocated to the segregated account that have not been paid in cash would remain unsatisfied obligations of the segregated account. such obligations may or may not accrue interest according to the terms of a modified segregated account rehabilitation plan (or any rehabilitation plan for ambac assurance). if the portion of permitted claims on policies allocated to the segregated account that have not been paid in cash was left unsatisfied pending further cash payments, then ambac assurance could lose its entitlement to certain reimbursements that would have been payable to it had such claims been (or been deemed to be) fully satisfied by the issuance of surplus notes (or other instruments). furthermore, certain insured securities would accrue additional interest inasmuch as the outstanding balance of such securities would not be reduced by the amount of unpaid claims. as a result of the aforementioned, allowing the portion of permitted claims on policies allocated to the segregated account that have not been paid in cash to remain unsatisfied could result in a material change in our financial results. the initiation of rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance would result in the assumption of control by the rehabilitator of all of ambac assurance’s assets and management of ambac assurance. in exercising control, the rehabilitator would act for the benefit of policyholders, and would not take into account the interests of security holders of ambac; such actions may result in material adverse consequences for ambac’s security holders. the occurrence of certain events could result in the initiation of rehabilitation proceedings against ambac assurance, with resulting adverse consequences to holders of ambac securities. holders of claims that were allocated to the segregated account have challenged the establishment of the segregated account. if such challenges are successful, ambac assurance and/or the segregated account may be exposed to the risk of greater losses. similarly, if the amended plan settlement is not executed due to a failure to consummate the reorganization plan, ambac (or its creditors) could take actions which would adversely affect ambac assurance and/or the segregated account. in response to these or other events, such as failure to consummate the irs settlement or increased loss development in the general account of ambac assurance, oci may determine that it is in the best interests of policyholders to initiate rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance, either preemptively or in response to any such event. if, as a result of the occurrence of any such event(s), oci decides to initiate rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance, adverse consequences may result, including, without limitation, the assertion of damages by counterparties (including mark-to-market claims with respect to insured transactions executed in isda format) and the acceleration of losses based on early termination triggers and the loss of control rights in insured transactions, thereby reducing the residual value of ambac assurance. additionally, the rehabilitator would assume control of all of ambac assurance’s assets and management of ambac assurance. in exercising control, the rehabilitator will act for the benefit of policyholders, and will not take into account the interests of securityholders of ambac; such actions may result in material adverse consequences for ambac’s securityholders. our inability to realize the expected recoveries included in our loss reserves could adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. as of december 31, 2012, we have estimated subrogation recoveries of $2,523.2 million (net of reinsurance), which is included in our loss reserves. these recoveries are based principally on contractual claims arising from rmbs transactions that we have insured, and represent our estimate of the amounts we will ultimately recover. however, our ability to recover these amounts is subject to significant uncertainty, including risks inherent in litigation, collectability of such amounts from counterparties and/or their respective parents and affiliates, timing of receipt of any such recoveries, regulatory intervention   34 table of contents which could impede our ability to take the actions required to realize such recoveries and uncertainty inherent in the assumptions used in estimating such recoveries. the amount of these subrogation recoveries is significant and if we were unable to recover any amounts our stockholders’ deficit as of december 31, 2012 would increase from $3,247.0 million to $5,771.6 million. we expect to recover material amounts of claims payments through remediation measures other than the litigation described above as well as through cash flows in the securitization structures of transactions that we insure. realization of such expected recoveries is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the rights and defenses of other parties with interests that conflict with our interests, the performance of the collateral and assets backing the obligations that we insure, the performance of servicers involved in securitizations in which we participate as insurer, and the effect on our rights of features of the segregated account rehabilitation plan and orders of the rehabilitation court. additionally, the segregated account rehabilitation proceedings may result in the loss of future recoveries in insured transactions. adverse developments with respect to such variables may cause our recoveries to fall below expectations. as a result of the segregated account rehabilitation proceedings, various adverse events in the insured portfolio may be triggered. if injunctions issued by the rehabilitation court enjoining such adverse effects are ineffective, substantial adverse events may occur. the rehabilitation court issued an injunction effective until further order of the court enjoining certain actions by segregated account policyholders and other counterparties, including the assertion of damages or acceleration of losses (including mark-to-market claims with respect to insured transactions executed in isda format) based on early termination triggers and the loss of control rights in insured transactions. if the challenges to the injunction that have been filed are successful, losses in the segregated account would likely increase substantially. we are subject to credit risk and other risks related to rmbs and securities backed by student loans. we have insured rmbs transactions (including transactions comprised of second lien mortgage products, home equity line of credit (“helocs”) and closed end second mortgage loans, and alt-a or mid-prime loans), as well as securities backed by student loans, and are thus exposed to credit risk associated with those asset classes. performance of these transactions can be adversely affected by general economic conditions, including recession, rising unemployment rates, underemployment, home prices which decline or which do not increase in the patterns assumed in our models, increasing foreclosure rates and unavailability of consumer credit; mortgage product attributes, such as interest rate adjustments and balloon payment obligations; borrower and/or originator fraud; mortgage and student loan servicer activities, including underperformance and financial difficulty. while further deterioration in the performance of consumer assets, including mortgage-related assets and student loans may occur, the extent and duration of any future deterioration of the credit markets is unknown, as is the impact, if any, on potential claim payments and ultimate losses of the securities within ambac assurance’s portfolio. in addition, there can be no assurance that any of the governmental or private sector initiatives designed to address such credit deterioration in the markets will be successful or inure to the benefit of the transactions insured by ambac. servicer settlements with governmental authorities regarding foreclosure irregularities are generally designed to protect homeowners and may increase losses on securities insured by ambac. in addition, there can be no assurance that we would be successful, or that we would not be delayed, in enforcing the subordination provisions, credit enhancements or other contractual provisions of the rmbs that ambac assurance insures in the event of litigation or the bankruptcy of other transaction parties. many of the subordination provisions, credit enhancements and other contractual provisions of the rmbs that ambac assurance insures are untested in the market and, therefore, it is uncertain how such subordination provisions, credit enhancements and other contractual provisions will be interpreted in the event of an action for enforcement. revenues and cash flow would be adversely impacted due to a decline in realization of installment premiums. due to the installment nature of a significant percentage of its premium income, ambac assurance has an embedded future revenue stream. the amount of installment premiums actually realized by ambac assurance could be reduced in the future due to factors such as early termination of insurance contracts, accelerated prepayments of underlying obligations or insufficiency of cash flows (by the premium paying entity). additionally, the segregated account rehabilitation proceedings may result in the loss of installment premium income from such insured transactions. such reductions would result in lower revenues. changes in prevailing interest rate levels could adversely impact our business results and prospects. increases in prevailing interest rate levels can adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. in the event that investments must be sold in order to pay claims or to meet financial services liquidity needs due to contract terminations or collateral posting requirements, such investments would likely be sold at discounted   35 table of contents prices. additionally, increasing interest rates would have an adverse impact on our insured portfolio. for example, increasing interest rates could result in higher claim payments in respect of defaulted obligations which bear interest at floating rates of interest. higher interest rates can also lead to increased credit stress on consumer asset-backed transactions in our insured portfolio (as the securitized assets supporting a portion of these exposures are floating rate consumer obligations); slower prepayment speeds and resulting “extension risk” relative to such consumer asset-backed transactions in our insured portfolio and in our investment portfolio; decreased volume of capital markets activity and, correspondingly, decreased volume of insured transactions. decreasing interest rates could result in early terminations of financial guarantee insurance policies in respect of which we are paid on an installment basis and do not receive a termination premium, thus reducing premium earned in respect of these transactions. decreases in prevailing interest rates may also limit growth of or reduce investment income and may adversely impact the result of our interest rate swap portfolio. in an attempt to bolster the economic recovery, the federal reserve has set the federal funds target rate at low levels in recent years while conducting open market operations intended to lower interest rates across the yield curve. the success and/or continuation of these efforts could have a material adverse effect on ambac’s operating results as many of the obligations guaranteed by ambac are tied to interest rates while the entities responsible for servicing these obligations could be negatively impacted by increases in interest rates or further economic distress.  actions of the rehabilitator could adversely affect ambac, including impacting our ability to realize our remediation recoveries. as a consequence of the segregated account rehabilitation proceedings, the rehabilitator retains operational control and decision-making authority with respect to all matters related to the segregated account, including surveillance, remediation, loss mitigation and efforts to recover losses in the segregated account, including recovery efforts in respect of breaches of representations and warranties by sponsors of ambac-insured rmbs. similarly, by virtue of the contracts executed between ambac assurance and the segregated account in connection with the establishment, and subsequent rehabilitation, of the segregated account, the rehabilitator retains the discretion to oversee and approve certain actions taken by ambac assurance in respect of assets and liabilities that remain in ambac assurance. as a result, certain efforts to remediate losses, and certain other actions taken by ambac assurance, are subject to the approval of the rehabilitator. in exercising such authority, the rehabilitator will act for the benefit of policyholders, and will not take into account the interests of securityholders of ambac. decisions made by the rehabilitator for the benefit of policyholders may result in material adverse consequences for ambac’s securityholders. in addition, we are not able to predict the impact such oversight will have on the remediation of losses, and, in particular, on our efforts to recover losses attributable to breaches of representations and warranties by sponsors of ambac-insured rmbs and our ability to commute outstanding policies and repurchase surplus notes, and how vigorously the rehabilitator will pursue such remediation. in addition, the rehabilitator may propose amendments to the segregated account rehabilitation plan that could have a significant impact on our financial statements as such amendments could have the effect of minimizing nol usage payments to ambac pursuant to the amended tsa. in addition, as a result of the segregated account rehabilitation proceedings, certain key personnel have chosen to leave ambac, and additional people may decide to leave. the loss of such personnel could adversely impact ambac’s financial results. issuance of surplus notes or other securities, instruments or obligations issued to satisfy claims under a revised segregated  account rehabilitation plan may cause ambac assurance to recognize codi, which could significantly reduce the ambac  assurance nols. if the surplus notes issued by ambac assurance or by the segregated account, or other securities, instruments or obligations issued by the segregated account to satisfy claims under a revised segregated account rehabilitation plan (“other instruments”), or the claims for which the surplus notes or other instruments are exchanged, are “publicly traded” for purposes of section 1273 of the tax code and applicable treasury regulations thereunder, ambac assurance will be treated as having satisfied the policyholders’ claims against ambac assurance for an amount equal to the fair market value of such surplus notes or other instruments (plus any other consideration transferred). determining that the surplus notes, other instruments or claims are “publicly traded” could cause ambac assurance to recognize a potentially significant amount of cancellation of debt income (“codi”), which would reduce the ambac assurance nols by the amount of such codi. the reduction in the ambac assurance nol could impair ambac assurance’s ability to satisfy claims asserted against the segregated account or ambac assurance. in addition, holders of the surplus notes or other instruments may recognize interest income pursuant to the original issue discount rules prior to receipt of interest payments on the surplus notes or other instruments.   36 table of contents if the surplus notes or other instruments are characterized as equity of ambac assurance, the ambac assurance nols (and certain other tax attributes or tax benefits of the ambac consolidated group) may be subject to limitation under section 382 of the tax code. it is possible the surplus notes or other instruments may be characterized as equity of ambac assurance for u.s. federal income tax purposes. as a result, transfers of such “equity” by holders or to holders of more than five percent of the equity of ambac assurance may result in an “ownership change” of ambac assurance for purposes of section 382 of the tax code. if such an ownership change were to occur, the value and amount of the ambac assurance nols would be substantially impaired, increasing the u.s. federal income tax liability of ambac assurance and materially reducing cash available to dividend to the reorganized company, as well as reducing the value of ambac assurance’s stock owned by the reorganized company. deductions with respect to interest accruing on surplus notes or other instruments may be eliminated or deferred until payment. to the extent surplus notes or other instruments are characterized as equity for u.s. federal income tax purposes, accrued interest will not be deductible by ambac assurance. in addition, even if the surplus notes or other instruments are characterized as debt for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the deduction of interest accruing on the surplus notes or other instruments may be deferred until paid or eliminated in part depending upon (i) the terms of any deferral and payment provisions provided in the surplus notes or other instruments, (ii) whether the surplus notes or other instruments have “significant original issue discount,” and (iii) the yield to maturity of the surplus notes or other instruments. to the extent deductions with respect to interest is eliminated or deferred, the u.s. federal income tax of the members of the ambac consolidated group or the members of the ambac assurance consolidated tax group as the case maybe, could be materially increased reducing the amount of cash available to pay its obligations. surplus notes issued by, or other obligations of, either ambac assurance or the segregated account may be characterized as equity of ambac assurance and as a result, ambac assurance may no longer be a member of the u.s. federal income tax consolidated  group of which ambac is the common parent. it is possible the surplus notes or other instruments issued by either ambac assurance or the segregated account may be characterized as equity of ambac assurance for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if the surplus notes or other instruments are characterized as equity of ambac assurance and it is determined that such “equity” represented more than twenty (20) percent of the total value of the stock of ambac assurance, ambac assurance may no longer be characterized as an includable corporation that is affiliated with ambac. as a result, ambac assurance may no longer be characterized as a member of the u.s. federal income tax consolidated group of which ambac is the common parent (the “ambac consolidated group”) and ambac assurance would be required to file a separate consolidated tax return as the common parent of a new u.s. federal income tax consolidated group including ambac assurance as the new common parent and ambac assurance’s affiliated subsidiaries (the “ambac assurance consolidated tax group”). to the extent ambac assurance is no longer a member of the ambac consolidated group, ambac assurance’s nols (and certain other available tax attributes of ambac assurance and the other members of the ambac assurance consolidated tax group) may no longer be available for use by the ambac assurance consolidated tax group or any of the remaining members of the ambac assurance consolidated tax group to reduce the u.s. federal income tax liabilities of the ambac assurance consolidated tax group. ambac, ambac assurance and their affiliates entered into a tax sharing agreement that would require ambac to make certain tax elections that could mitigate the loss of nols and other tax attributes resulting from a deconsolidation of ambac assurance from the ambac consolidated group. however, in the event of a deconsolidation, certain other benefits resulting from u.s. federal income tax consolidation may no longer be available to the ambac consolidated group including certain favorable rules relating to transactions occurring between members of the ambac consolidated group and members of the ambac assurance consolidated tax group. market risks could adversely impact our assets posted as collateral in respect of investment agreements and interest rate swap transactions. as a result of the downgrades of ambac assurance’s financial strength rating, we are required to post collateral with respect to certain investment agreements and interest rate swap transactions. see part ii, item 7, “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—liquidity and capital resources—credit ratings and collateral” of this form 10-k. we will be required to post additional collateral if the market value of the assets used to collateralize our obligations declines or if there are changes in the collateral posting obligations under these agreements and transactions. these collateral-posting obligations could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. at present, these collateral-posting requirements are being partially satisfied by ambac assurance and by loans from ambac assurance to the financial   37 table of contents services businesses. as required by wisconsin law, these transactions were approved by the oci. to the extent that collateral-posting requirements increase as a result of changes in market conditions, as described above, it is likely that ambac assurance would need to provide increased lending capacity to the financial services businesses in order to satisfy these collateral-posting obligations. any such increases to lending capacity would be subject to the prior consent of the oci; there can be no assurance that we would obtain such consent. we believe that the oci would consider several factors in determining whether to grant such consent, including its view of ambac assurance’s financial condition at the time of such loan or contribution. if the financial services businesses fail to post collateral as required, counterparties may be entitled to terminate the transactions. upon such terminations, we could liquidate securities with unrealized mark-to-market losses which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. see part ii, item 7, “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—liquidity and capital resources—credit ratings and collateral” of this form 10-k. the termination of such transactions, if unpaid by our financial services businesses, would trigger ambac assurance’s obligations to make payments under the financial guarantee insurance policies it previously issued. to the extent that the oci determines that the payment by ambac assurance under such policies could place ambac assurance in a hazardous condition, the oci could initiate rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance. risks that impact assets in our investment portfolio could adversely affect our ability to pay our liabilities and accordingly have a negative effect on our operations. our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by events and developments in the capital markets including interest rate movements, credit rating downgrades, abs and rmbs prepayment speeds and foreign exchange movements, spread volatility, and credit losses. to the extent we need to liquidate large blocks of investment assets in order to pay claims under financial guarantee insurance policies, to make payments under investment agreements and/or to collateralize our obligations under investment agreements and interest rate swaps, such investment assets could be sold at prices less than fair value as of december 31, 2012. the change in composition of the securities in our investment portfolio exposes us to greater risk. prior to the rating agency actions on ambac assurance, ambac assurance managed its investment portfolio in accordance with rating agency standards for a aaa-rated insurance company. as a result of the significant declines in, and ultimate withdrawal of, ambac assurance’s financial strength ratings, it is no longer necessary to comply with the strict investment portfolio guidelines for a aaa-rated company. therefore, ambac assurance has decided to maintain a portion of its investment portfolio in lower-rated securities in order to increase the investment return on its portfolio. investments in lower-rated securities and “alternative assets” could expose ambac to increased losses on its investment portfolio in addition to risks described above and/or decrease the liquidity of the investment portfolio. ambac assurance’s investment policies are also subject to certain covenants enforceable by oci. any changes as a result of such covenants could adversely impact the performance of the investment portfolio. our risk management policies and practices may not adequately identify significant risks. as described in part i, item 1, “business—risk management” of this form 10-k, we have established risk management policies and practices which seek to mitigate our exposure to credit risk in our insured portfolio. ongoing surveillance of credit risks in our insured portfolio is an important component of our risk management. these policies and practices in the past have not insulated us from risks that were unforeseen and which had unanticipated loss severity, and such policies and practices may not do so in the future. there can be no assurance that these policies and practices will be adequate to avoid future losses. if we are not able to identify significant risks, we may not be able to and/or timely remediate such risks, thereby increasing the amount of losses to which we are exposed. an inability to identify significant risks could also result in the failure to establish loss reserves that are sufficient in relation to such risks. some of the state and local governments and finance authorities that issue public finance obligations we insure are experiencing  fiscal stress that could result in increased credit losses on those obligations or increased liquidity claims. we have historically experienced low levels of defaults in our u.s. public finance insured portfolio, including during the financial crisis that began in mid-2007. however, many state and local governments that issue obligations we insure have reported budget shortfalls that will require them to significantly raise taxes and/or cut spending in order to satisfy their obligations. government entities may also take other actions that may impact their own creditworthiness or the creditworthiness of related issuers. for example, in 2011, the state of california abolished redevelopment agencies in the state, and while the agencies’ existing debt is required to be repaid, there can be no certainty that the agencies have the ability or willingness to pay their debts when due. in addition, some issuers of obligations we insure have either defaulted or filed for bankruptcy, raising concerns about their ultimate ability to service the debt we insure or recover claims paid in the future. if the issuers of the obligations in our u.s. public finance portfolio are unable to raise taxes, cut spending, or receive   38 table of contents federal assistance, we may experience liquidity claims and/or ultimate losses on those obligations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. loss reserves may not be adequate to cover potential losses; changes in loss reserves may result in further volatility of net income and earnings. loss reserves are established when management has observed credit deterioration, in most cases, when the underlying credit is considered below investment grade. loss reserves established with respect to our non-derivative financial guarantee insurance business are based upon estimates and judgments by management, including estimates and judgments with respect to the probability of default, the severity of loss upon default, management’s ability to execute commutation transactions, and estimated remediation recoveries for, among other things, breaches by rmbs issuers of representations and warranties. furthermore, the objective of establishing loss reserve estimates is not to reflect the worst possible outcome. as a result of the inherent uncertainties in the estimates and judgments made to determine loss reserves, there can be no assurance that either the actual losses in our financial guarantee insurance portfolio will not exceed such reserves or that our reserves will not increase or decrease materially over time as circumstances, our assumptions or our models change. as described elsewhere herein, any changes to the segregated account rehabilitation plan in respect of the treatment of the portion of claims that is not paid in cash on an as-presented basis could cause ambac assurance to lose its entitlement to certain reimbursements or to incur additional interest payment obligations, which could result in a material change in our loss reserves. additionally, inherent in our estimates of loss severities and remediation recoveries is the assumption that we will retain control rights in respect of our insured portfolio. however, according to the terms of relevant transaction documents, we are subject to the loss of control rights in many insured transactions, in the event that we are the subject of delinquency proceedings and/or other regulatory actions which could result from our deteriorated financial position. in the event that we lose control rights, our ability to mitigate loss severities and realize remediation recoveries will be compromised, and actual ultimate losses in our insured portfolio could exceed our loss reserves. the rehabilitation court issued an injunction effective until further order of the court enjoining certain actions by holders of policies in the segregated account and other counterparties, including actions resulting in the loss of control rights. if challenges to this injunction were successful, ambac assurance could lose its control rights with respect to policies in the segregated account. we also rely on internally and externally developed complex financial models, including licensed models related to rmbs, to project performance of our insured obligations. differences in the models that we employ, and/or flaws in these financial models and/or faulty assumptions inherent in these financial models and those determined by management, could lead to increased losses and loss reserves. uncertainty with respect to the ultimate performance of certain of our insured exposures may result in substantial changes in loss reserves and/or actual losses. moreover, modeled estimates of transaction performance depend in part on our interpretations of contracts and other bases of our legal rights. such interpretations may prove to be incorrect or different interpretations may be employed by bond trustees and other transaction participants, which could lead to increased losses and loss reserves. the determination of the amount of other-than temporary impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. the determination of the amount of impairments on our investments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in impairments as such evaluations are revised. there can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future. historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. we use externally developed financial models to project impairments with respect to rmbs held in our investment portfolio, including ambac assurance guaranteed rmbs. differences in the models we employ and/or flaws in these models and/or faulty assumptions inherent in these models and those determined by management, could lead to increased impairments with respect to rmbs in our investment portfolio. we are subject to credit and liquidity risk due to unscheduled and unanticipated withdrawals on investment agreements. ambac’s investment agreement business has issued investment agreements to investors that may allow for early withdrawal (i.e. deviate from a defined or expected withdrawal schedule). the provisions that allow for early withdrawal vary by transaction but include events such as credit events, early call provisions, loss events, construction project development variance and changes in tax laws. to the extent we experience an increase in unanticipated withdrawals, the investment agreement business may be required to liquidate certain asset holdings. this early liquidation of asset holdings may result in realized losses.   39 table of contents we are subject to credit risk throughout our businesses, including large single risks, risk concentrations, correlated risks and reinsurance counterparty credit risk. we are exposed to the risk that issuers of debt which we have insured (or with respect to which we have written credit derivatives), issuers of debt which we hold in our investment portfolio, reinsurers and other contract counterparties (including derivative counterparties) may default in their financial obligations, whether as the result of insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. these credit risks could cause increased losses and loss reserves, estimates of credit impairments and mark-to-market losses with respect to credit derivatives in our financial guarantee business; and we could experience losses and decreases in the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. such credit risks may be in the form of large single risk exposures to particular issuers, reinsurers or counterparties; losses caused by catastrophic events (including terrorist acts and natural disasters); losses caused by increases in municipal defaults; or losses in respect of different, but correlated, credit exposures. for additional information on our reinsurers, see item 7a, “quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk—credit risk” in this form 10-k. the u.s. federal income tax consequences resulting from the creation of the segregated account are uncertain and ambac  assurance may realize a gain or loss in connection with the creation of the segregated account. the u.s. federal income tax consequences resulting from the creation of the segregated account are uncertain. for example, to the extent the segregated account were treated as a separate taxable entity, depending upon the terms of the segregated account rehabilitation plan, gains or losses could be realized by ambac or the segregated account, materially increasing the u.s. federal income tax liability of the relevant party and materially reducing cash available to pay obligations. we are subject to a variety of operational risks which could have a material adverse impact on our business results. we depend on internal processes, risk models, various systems and our employees in the conduct of our business. any failure of such processes, models and systems and/or employee misconduct or fraud could have an adverse impact on our business results. we are also subject to external operational risks, including fraud, settlement risk and the failure of risk models or other analytical tools provided by third parties. any such external fraud or failure could have an adverse impact on our business results. ambac assurance, as the management services provider to the segregated account, handles certain administrative and management services for the segregated account. under the segregated account rehabilitation plan that has been confirmed by the rehabilitation court but is not yet effective and is subject to change, it is contemplated that the segregated account will partially satisfy its claim liabilities through the issuance of surplus notes. as described elsewhere herein, it is uncertain whether the segregated account will, in fact, issue surplus notes with respect to the portion of claims that is not paid in cash. in connection with the distribution of surplus notes or other instruments, or the implementation of any alternative processes designed to handle policy claims against the segregated account that are not paid in cash, ambac assurance is exposed to operational risks related to the settlement or proper accounting for such claims. we are subject to the risk of litigation and regulatory inquiries or investigations, and the outcome of proceedings we are or may become involved in could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial position, profitability or cash flows. ambac, and certain of its present and former officers and directors, have been named in lawsuits that allege violations of the federal securities laws and/or state law. ambac also has been named in lawsuits relating to transactions entered into by its financial guarantee subsidiary, ambac assurance, and its financial services businesses. ambac assurance is also defending various lawsuits relating to its financial guarantee business as well as securities that it has issued. in addition, the company has received various regulatory inquiries and requests for information. please see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k for information on these various proceedings. it is not possible to predict whether additional suits will be filed or whether additional inquiries or requests for information will be made, and it is also not possible to predict the outcome of litigation, inquiries or requests for information. it is possible that there could be unfavorable outcomes in these or other proceedings. management is unable to make a meaningful estimate of the amount or range of loss that could result from unfavorable outcomes or of the expenses that will be incurred in defending these lawsuits. under some circumstances, adverse results in any such proceedings and/or the incurrence of significant litigation expenses could be material to our business, operations, financial position, profitability or cash flows. there are limitations on the voting rights attached to our shares of common stock. our subsidiary, ambac assurance, is a wisconsin corporation and is subject to the insurance and regulatory laws of the state of wisconsin. under wisconsin insurance holding company laws, there is a presumption that a holder of 10% or more of ambac’s voting stock controls ambac assurance and any such acquisition of control requires the prior approval of the   40 table of contents oci. in addition, as a result of ambac being the holding company of ambac uk, the prior consent of the fsa is required for any individual, group or institution who proposes to take a step that would result in becoming a controller, or increasing control, over ambac uk. among other things, any shareholder must receive the prior consent of the fsa prior to holding 10 percent or more of ambac’s shares. section 4.5 of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that no stockholder may cast votes with respect to 10% or more of our voting stock, regardless of the actual number of shares of voting stock beneficially held by the stockholder. in addition, any voting stock held by a stockholder in excess of 10% will not count in the calculation of or toward a quorum at any meeting of stockholders. in order to avoid these restrictions, a stockholder who acquires or owns 10% or more of our voting stock must have such acquisition or ownership previously approved by the oci or file a disclaimer of “control” approved by such office. the foregoing provisions of the wisconsin insurance holding company laws, uk insurance laws and legal restrictions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or the removal of incumbent management. continued uncertainty regarding the european debt crisis may have prolonged adverse consequences on the capital markets which in turn may impact ambac’s investment results and have negative consequences for certain insured transactions. the uncertainties related to european sovereign and bank default risk have resulted in greater levels of volatility within the capital markets and a “flight to quality” that has helped suppress us interest rates. as a result, reinvestment opportunities have been limited by the overall low level of nominal rates and liquidity for other than the highest quality investments has been constrained. if such market conditions continue for a prolonged period of time they could have a material adverse impact on ambac’s operating results and financial condition. in addition, stress in the european markets may have an adverse impact on certain obligations insured by ambac assurance and ambac uk that are sensitive to economic conditions in europe and that are reliant on the european capital markets for financing. financial markets have recently been affected by concerns over u.s. fiscal policy. financial markets have recently been affected by concerns over u.s. fiscal policy, including uncertainty regarding automatic spending cuts that will become effective in march 2013 and the need to again raise the u.s. federal government’s debt ceiling by may 2013 and reduce the federal deficit. these issues could, on their own, or combined with the slowing of the global economy generally, send the united states into a new recession, have severe repercussions to the united states and global credit and financial markets, further exacerbate concerns over sovereign debt of other countries and disrupt economic activity in the united states and elsewhere. in addition, a recession in the united states could negatively impact earnings, adversely affect the performance of ambac’s investments or result in impairments and could have a material adverse effect on ambac’s business, results of operations and financial condition. moreover, recent tax increases and future fiscal policies may have adverse effects on the economy and on consumers, which could increase the risk of default on collateral backing securities that we insure. since our consolidated financial statements will reflect fresh start accounting adjustments upon emergence from bankruptcy, and because of the effects of the transactions that will become effective pursuant to the reorganization plan, our financial information in the post-emergence financial statements will not be comparable to our financial information from prior periods. upon our emergence from bankruptcy, we will adopt fresh start accounting pursuant to which the carrying value of the company’s assets and liabilities will be adjusted to their fair value as of the date of ambac’s emergence from bankruptcy. thus, our future consolidated financial statements will not be comparable in many respects to our consolidated financial statements for periods prior to our adoption of fresh-start accounting and prior to accounting for the effects of the reorganization proceedings. our inability to attract and retain qualified executives and employees or the loss of any of these personnel could negatively impact our business. our ability to mitigate losses in ambac assurance’s insured portfolio and with respect to liabilities allocated to the segregated account, and to effectively implement a reorganization under chapter 11, depend on the retention and recruitment of qualified executives and other professionals. we rely substantially upon the services of our current executive team. in addition to these officers, we require key staff with risk mitigation, structured finance, insurance, credit, investment, accounting, finance, legal and technical skills. as a result of ambac’s bankruptcy filing and the rehabilitation proceedings for the segregated account, there is an increased risk that executive officers and other key staff will leave the company and   41 table of contents replacements may not be incented to join the company. the loss of the services of members of our senior management team or our inability to hire and retain other talented personnel could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our remediation and reorganization strategies, which could further negatively impact our business.   item 1b. unresolved