item 1a. risk factors references in the risk factors to “ambac” are to ambac financial group, inc. references to “we,” “our,” “us” and “company” are to ambac and its subsidiaries, as the context requires. capitalized terms used but not defined in this section shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k or in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contained in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k unless otherwise indicated. the price per share of our common stock may be subject to a high degree of volatility, including significant price declines. our shares of common stock, which were issued pursuant to our reorganization plan, began trading on the nasdaq global market on may 1, 2013. although our common stock is listed on nasdaq, there can be no assurance as to the liquidity of the trading market for our shares of common stock or the price at which such shares can be sold. the initial market price of our shares was determined by investors based upon the number of shares that were issued. the price of the shares may decline substantially in response to a number of events or circumstances, including but not limited to:     •   changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock;     •   market trends unrelated to our stock;     •   market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our business strategy; and     •   results and actions of other participants in our industry. in addition, the price of our shares will be affected by the additional risks described below, including risks associated with ambac assurance’s ability to deliver value to ambac. ambac may not be able to realize value from ambac assurance. because ambac is a holding company, the value of our stock is dependent upon the residual value of our main operating subsidiary, ambac assurance, the receipt of payments to be made by ambac assurance pursuant   32 table of contents item 1a. risk factors.   to the amended tsa and the cost allocation agreement, the receipt of payments on the junior surplus note issued to ambac by the segregated account, and the receipt of dividends from ambac assurance. there can be no assurance that we will be able to realize residual value in ambac assurance, which is in run-off. in addition, the segregated account of ambac assurance corporation is subject to rehabilitation proceedings and under the control of the rehabilitator, as further described below. it is unclear whether ambac assurance and the segregated account will be able to satisfy all of their respective obligations to policyholders, holders of their respective surplus notes and holders of ambac assurance’s preferred stock, even if ambac assurance and the segregated account are successful in achieving recoveries and mitigating losses. our ability to achieve recoveries and mitigate losses is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including perceptions of the value of ambac’s guarantees and securities. due to the above considerations, as well as applicable legal and contractual restrictions described elsewhere herein, it is highly unlikely that ambac assurance will be able to pay ambac any dividends for the foreseeable future. furthermore, the payments to be made to ambac under the amended tsa and the cost allocation agreement are subject to contingencies that are difficult to predict, making the amount and timing, if any, of such payments uncertain. payments to be made under the amended tsa, in particular, depend on the generation of taxable income by ambac assurance and will be negatively affected by the amount of net operating loss carry-forwards (“nols”) that can be utilized by ambac assurance prior to the utilization of nols that require payment to ambac. ambac assurance’s ability to generate taxable income is uncertain. moreover, losses incurred by ambac assurance since the amended tsa was executed have increased the amount of nols that can be utilized by ambac assurance without payment to ambac. due to these factors, there can be no assurance as to the amounts, if any, that ambac will receive from ambac assurance under the amended tsa. it is also uncertain whether and to what extent ambac will realize value from the junior surplus note. no payment of interest on or principal of a segregated account junior surplus note may be made until all existing and future indebtedness of the segregated account, including segregated account surplus notes, policy claims and claims having statutory priority have been paid in full. all payments of principal and interest on segregated account junior surplus notes are subject to the prior approval of the oci. if the oci does not approve the payment of interest on the segregated account junior surplus notes, such interest will accrue and compound annually until paid. the value of our common stock may also depend upon the ability of ambac to generate earnings apart from ambac assurance. as noted below, we are exploring new business opportunities, but there are no assurances regarding our ability to enter new businesses or the prospects of any such new businesses. we are exploring new business opportunities which may not be not be consummated, or if consummated, may not create value and may negatively impact our financial results. we are exploring new business opportunities for the company, which may involve the acquisition of assets or existing businesses or the development of businesses through new or existing subsidiaries. it is not possible at this time to predict the future prospects or other characteristics of any such new business. our efforts to pursue new business opportunities may be unsuccessful or require significant financial or other resources, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition. no assurance can be given that we will be able to complete the acquisition or development of any business or, if acquired or developed, generate any earnings or be able to successfully integrate such business into our current operating structure. moreover, ambac’s ability to enter new businesses, including new businesses apart from ambac assurance, is also subject to significant doubt, given the condition and circumstances of ambac assurance, the difficulty of leveraging or monetizing its other assets, and the uncertainty of its ability to raise capital. due to these factors, as well as those relating to ambac assurance as described above, the value of our securities is highly speculative.   33 table of contents item 1a. risk factors.   our actual financial results and financial condition may vary significantly from the projections and other financial information previously provided to the bankruptcy court and may be substantially lower from those reflected in the projections; investors should not rely on such information in making investment decisions. in connection with the reorganization plan, in september 2011 we filed with the bankruptcy court a disclosure statement containing financial projections and other financial information, including estimates regarding our reorganization value. the projections and other financial information provided were based on information available to us at that time and we have not updated, and do not intend to update, such information. projections are inherently subject to uncertainties and risks and such projections and other financial information reflect numerous assumptions as of the date of the disclosure statement. our actual financial condition may vary significantly from those contemplated by the projections and other financial information provided to the bankruptcy court. our actual results may be substantially lower than what was projected or implied in the disclosure statement. the projections and other financial information provided to the bankruptcy court are neither included in this report nor incorporated by reference. accordingly, investors should not rely on such projections or information in making investment decisions. the occurrence of certain events could result in the initiation of rehabilitation proceedings against ambac assurance, with resulting adverse consequences to holders of ambac securities. challenges to the segregated account rehabilitation proceedings are ongoing. if such challenges are ultimately successful, ambac assurance and/or the segregated account may be exposed to the risk of greater losses. furthermore, oci may not receive a favorable ruling from the irs regarding its proposed modifications to the segregated account rehabilitation plan, as discussed elsewhere herein. in response to these or other events, such as increased loss development in the general account of ambac assurance or significant losses resulting from litigation against ambac assurance, oci may determine that it is in the best interests of policyholders to initiate rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance, either preemptively or in response to any such event. if, as a result of the occurrence of any such event(s), oci decides to initiate rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance, adverse consequences may result, including, without limitation, the assertion of damages by counterparties (including mark-to-market claims with respect to insured transactions executed in isda format) and the acceleration of losses based on early termination triggers and the loss of control rights in insured transactions, thereby reducing the residual value of ambac assurance. additionally, the rehabilitator would assume control of all of ambac assurance’s assets and management of ambac assurance. in exercising control, the rehabilitator will act for the benefit of policyholders, and will not take into account the interests of securityholders of ambac. such actions may result in material adverse consequences for ambac’s securityholders. actions of the rehabilitator could adversely affect ambac, including impacting our ability to realize our remediation recoveries. as a consequence of the segregated account rehabilitation proceedings, the rehabilitator retains operational control and decision-making authority with respect to all matters related to the segregated account, including surveillance, remediation, loss mitigation and efforts to recover losses in the segregated account, including recovery efforts in respect of breaches of representations and warranties by sponsors of ambac-insured rmbs. similarly, by virtue of the contracts executed between ambac assurance and the segregated account in connection with the establishment, and subsequent rehabilitation, of the segregated account, the rehabilitator retains the discretion to oversee and approve certain actions taken by ambac assurance in respect of assets and liabilities that remain in ambac assurance. as a result, certain efforts to remediate losses, and certain other actions taken by ambac assurance, are subject to the approval of the rehabilitator. in exercising such authority, the rehabilitator will act for the benefit of policyholders, and will not take into account the interests of   34 table of contents item 1a. risk factors.   securityholders of ambac. decisions made by the rehabilitator for the benefit of policyholders may result in material adverse consequences for ambac’s securityholders. in addition, we are not able to predict the impact such oversight will have on the remediation of losses, and, in particular, on our efforts to recover losses attributable to breaches of representations and warranties by sponsors of ambac-insured rmbs and our ability to commute outstanding policies and repurchase surplus notes, and how vigorously the rehabilitator will pursue such remediation. in addition, the rehabilitator may propose amendments to the segregated account rehabilitation plan that could have a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations as such amendments could have the effect of minimizing nol usage payments to ambac pursuant to the amended tsa. our inability to realize the expected recoveries included in our financial statements could adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. as of december 31, 2013, we have estimated representation and warranty subrogation recoveries of $2,183.7 million (net of reinsurance), which is included in our financial statements. these recoveries are based principally on contractual claims arising from rmbs transactions that we have insured, and represent our estimate of the amounts we will ultimately recover. however, our ability to recover these amounts is subject to significant uncertainty, including risks inherent in litigation, collectability of such amounts from counterparties and/or their respective parents and affiliates, timing of receipt of any such recoveries, regulatory intervention which could impede our ability to take the actions required to realize such recoveries, and uncertainty inherent in the assumptions used in estimating such recoveries. the amount of these subrogation recoveries is significant and if we were unable to recover any amounts our stockholders’ equity as of december 31, 2013 would decrease from $978.4 million to a deficit of $1,205.3 million. we expect to recover material amounts of claims payments through remediation measures other than the litigation described above as well as through cash flows in the securitization structures of transactions that we insure. realization of such expected recoveries is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the rights and defenses of other parties with interests that conflict with our interests, the performance of the collateral and assets backing the obligations that we insure, the performance of servicers involved in securitizations in which we participate as insurer, and the effect on our rights of the segregated account rehabilitation plan and orders of the rehabilitation court. additionally, the segregated account rehabilitation proceedings may result in the loss of future recoveries in insured transactions. adverse developments with respect to such variables may cause our recoveries to fall below expectations. intercompany disputes or disputes with oci may arise, which may have material adverse effects on the company. the segregated account, ambac assurance, ambac and other affiliates have entered into agreements that govern certain activities of such entities. oci has certain enforcement rights with respect to such agreements and, as regulator of ambac assurance and as rehabilitator of the segregated account, has further authority over the activities of ambac assurance and the segregated account. disputes may arise over the interpretation of such agreements, the exercise or purported exercise of rights thereunder, or the performance of or failure or purported failure to perform obligations thereunder. disputes may also arise over certain actions taken or proposed to be taken by oci in reliance on its contractual or legal rights or in reaction to actions taken or to be taken by the company. in taking such actions or reacting to actions or decisions of the company, the rehabilitator will act for the benefit of policyholders, and will not take into account the interests of securityholders of ambac. any such dispute could have material adverse effects on the company, whether through litigation, failure to execute transactions sought by management, interference with corporate strategies, objectives or prerogatives, inefficient decision-making or execution, forced realignment of resources, increased costs, distractions to management,   35 table of contents item 1a. risk factors.   strained working relationships or otherwise. such effects would also increase the risk that oci would seek to initiate rehabilitation proceedings against ambac assurance. the rehabilitator is considering amendments to the segregated account rehabilitation plan that could have adverse consequences to holders of ambac securities and to holders of securities insured by ambac assurance, and could have a material impact on our accounting, financial condition and results of operations. the issuance of surplus notes by the segregated account as contemplated by the current segregated account rehabilitation plan could subject ambac assurance to the risk of deconsolidation from ambac for tax purposes, which may also result in a section 382 limitation with respect to ambac assurance’s nols or an attribution of such nols to ambac, or could subject ambac assurance to the risk of recognizing significant cancellation of indebtedness income. as a result, and subject to desired tax treatment, the rehabilitator is expected to seek to implement amendments to the segregated account rehabilitation plan that would eliminate the issuance of surplus notes by the segregated account with respect to the unpaid portion of permitted policy claims. such amendments would instead provide for the unpaid balance of permitted policy claims to be recorded by the segregated account as outstanding policy obligations which would accrue interest from the first date on which a portion of such permitted policy claim is or was paid until such outstanding policy obligations are paid (any such outstanding policy obligation, including accrued interest thereon, as such obligation may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with the segregated account rehabilitation plan, guidelines or rules issued by the rehabilitator and/or orders of the rehabilitation court, a “deferred amount”). the amendments would likely provide that interest on the unpaid portion of permitted policy claims be accrued generally at an effective rate of 5.1%, compounded annually. based on an assumed 5.1% interest rate on deferred amounts, the segregated account would be responsible for accrued interest of approximately $225.1 million through december 31, 2013. this accrued interest amount is not currently reflected in the company’s financial results. in the case of certain insured bonds, the outstanding principal balance of which is not reduced by the unpaid portion of permitted policy claims relating to principal (such bonds, “undercollateralized bonds”), even though a deferred amount is also created, the interest accruing on the deferred amount may be reduced by the amount of interest payable on the undercollateralized bonds. absent an adjustment by the rehabilitator, bondholders would continue to earn interest on both the full principal balance of such undercollateralized bonds and the deferred amount. the timing and likelihood of such amendments to the segregated account rehabilitation plan are presently unclear. notwithstanding that such amendments would be designed to preserve tax attributes for the ultimate benefit of policyholders, such amendments could adversely affect the interests of ambac security holders and holders of securities insured by ambac assurance, including, without limitation, by the absence of tradable surplus notes. furthermore, if surplus notes were eliminated from the segregated account rehabilitation plan in favor of the establishment of deferred amounts, then ambac assurance would, in certain transactions, suffer a reduction in reimbursements that would have been payable to it had such claims been (or been deemed to be) fully satisfied by the issuance of surplus notes, although such reduction in reimbursements could be mitigated by the making of supplemental payments discussed elsewhere herein. also, if and to the extent the rehabilitator does not make adjustments with respect to the payment of interest on deferred amounts relating to undercollateralized bonds or such adjustments do not completely offset the amount of incremental interest payable on the related undercollateralized bonds, then ambac assurance would be exposed to incremental interest liability on such undercollateralized bonds. pending the outcome of the ruling requests to the irs, as more fully described elsewhere herein, the establishment of interest bearing deferred amounts instead of the issuance of surplus notes with respect to the unpaid portion of permitted policy claims is also likely to reduce nol usage payments by ambac assurance to ambac under the amended tsa. as a result of such factors, the establishment of deferred amounts instead of the issuance of surplus notes with respect to the unpaid portion of permitted policy claims could result in a material change in our financial condition or results of operations.   36 table of contents item 1a. risk factors.   some issuers of public finance obligations we insure are experiencing fiscal stress that could result in increased losses on those obligations or increased liquidity claims, including losses or claims resulting from payment defaults, chapter 9 bankruptcy proceedings or loss of market access. we have historically experienced low levels of defaults in our public finance insured portfolio, including during the financial crisis that began in mid-2007. however, some issuers of public finance obligations we insure have reported budget shortfalls that will require them to significantly raise taxes and/or cut spending in order to satisfy their obligations. government entities may also take other actions that may impact their own creditworthiness or the creditworthiness of related issuers. some issuers of obligations we insure have either defaulted or filed for bankruptcy, raising concerns about their ultimate ability to service the debt we insure or recover claims paid in the future. if the issuers of the obligations in our public finance portfolio are unable to raise taxes, cut spending, or receive federal assistance, or if such issuers default or file for bankruptcy under chapter 9, we may experience liquidity claims and/or ultimate losses on those obligations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we insure obligations of several issuers that have filed for bankruptcy protection under chapter 9. the consequences of such proceedings for creditors remain uncertain. for example, the treatment of general obligation debt in relation to other obligations is not settled. if issuers succeed in materially adjusting their obligations to bondholders and financial guarantors, other issuers may be encouraged to default or file for chapter 9 protection and seek similar adjustments to their debt. these events could materially increase losses in ambac’s insured portfolio of municipal credits. loss of market access is a risk embedded in our municipal exposures. from time to time the municipal bond market evidences heightened investor concerns overall or for select sectors or issuers, as has recently been the case with puerto rico. such adverse market conditions may trigger a loss of market liquidity for affected issuers, which in turn may significantly raise their cost of alternative financing or cause a liquidity crisis and potential for default on debt service payments we guarantee. as a result of the segregated account rehabilitation proceedings and resulting modifications to ambac’s payment obligations, various adverse events in the insured portfolio may be triggered. if injunctions issued by the rehabilitation court enjoining such adverse effects are ineffective, substantial adverse events may occur. the rehabilitation court issued an injunction effective until further order of the court enjoining certain actions by segregated account policyholders and other counterparties, including the assertion of damages or acceleration of losses (including mark-to-market claims with respect to transactions executed in isda format) based on early termination triggers and the loss of control rights in insured transactions. if the injunction does not successfully preclude policyholders or counterparties from asserting damages, accelerating payments or ignoring or assuming ambac’s control rights, losses in the segregated account would likely increase substantially. certain surplus notes issued by, or other obligations of, either ambac assurance or the segregated account may be characterized as equity of ambac assurance and as a result, ambac assurance may no longer be a member of the u.s. federal income tax consolidated group of which ambac is the common parent. it is possible that certain surplus notes issued by, or other obligations of, either ambac assurance or the segregated account may be characterized as equity of ambac assurance for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if such surplus notes or other obligations are characterized as equity of ambac assurance and it is determined that such “equity” represented more than twenty (20) percent of the total value of the stock of ambac assurance, ambac assurance may no longer be characterized as an includable corporation that is affiliated with ambac. as a result, ambac assurance may no longer be characterized as a member of the u.s. federal income tax consolidated group of which ambac is the common parent (the “ambac consolidated group”) and ambac assurance would be required to file a separate consolidated tax return as the common parent of a new u.s.   37 table of contents item 1a. risk factors.   federal income tax consolidated group including ambac assurance as the new common parent and ambac assurance’s affiliated subsidiaries (the “ambac assurance consolidated tax group”). to the extent ambac assurance is no longer a member of the ambac consolidated group, ambac assurance’s nols (and certain other available tax attributes of ambac assurance and the other members of the ambac assurance consolidated tax group) may no longer be available for use by the ambac assurance consolidated tax group or any of the remaining members of the ambac assurance consolidated tax group to reduce the u.s. federal income tax liabilities of the ambac assurance consolidated tax group. ambac, ambac assurance and their affiliates entered into a tax sharing agreement that would require ambac to make certain tax elections that could mitigate the loss of nols and other tax attributes resulting from a deconsolidation of ambac assurance from the ambac consolidated group. however, in the event of a deconsolidation, certain other benefits resulting from u.s. federal income tax consolidation may no longer be available to the ambac consolidated group including certain favorable rules relating to transactions occurring between members of the ambac consolidated group and members of the ambac assurance consolidated tax group. if surplus notes are characterized as equity of ambac assurance, the ambac assurance nols (and certain other tax attributes or tax benefits of the ambac consolidated group) may be subject to limitation under section 382 of the tax code. it is possible that certain surplus notes may be characterized as equity of ambac assurance for u.s. federal income tax purposes. such characterization could result in an “ownership change” of ambac assurance for purposes of section 382 of the tax code. if such an ownership change were to occur, the value and amount of the ambac assurance nols would be substantially impaired, increasing the u.s. federal income tax liability of ambac assurance and materially reducing cash available to dividend to ambac, as well as reducing the value of ambac assurance’s stock owned by ambac. deductions with respect to interest accruing on certain surplus notes may be eliminated or deferred until payment. to the extent certain surplus notes are characterized as equity for u.s. federal income tax purposes, accrued interest will not be deductible by ambac assurance. in addition, even if such surplus notes are characterized as debt for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the deduction of interest accruing on such surplus notes may be deferred until paid or eliminated in part depending upon (i) the terms of any deferral and payment provisions provided in such surplus notes, (ii) whether such surplus notes have “significant original issue discount,” and (iii) the yield to maturity of surplus notes. to the extent deductions with respect to interest is eliminated or deferred, the u.s. federal income tax of the members of the ambac consolidated group or the members of the ambac assurance consolidated tax group (as defined below) as the case maybe, could be increased reducing the amount of cash available to pay its obligations. we are subject to credit risk and other risks related to rmbs and securities backed by student loans. we have insured rmbs transactions (including transactions collateralized by second lien mortgage products and alt-a or mid-prime loans), as well as securities backed by student loans, and are thus exposed to credit risk associated with those asset classes. performance of these transactions, as well as others, can be adversely affected by general economic conditions, including recession, rising unemployment rates, underemployment, home prices that decline or do not increase in the patterns assumed in our models, increasing foreclosure rates and unavailability of consumer credit; mortgage product attributes, such as interest rate adjustments and balloon payment obligations; borrower and/or originator fraud; mortgage and student loan servicer activities, including underperformance and financial difficulty. while further deterioration in the performance of consumer assets, including mortgage-related assets and student loans, may occur, the extent and duration of any future deterioration of the credit markets is unknown, as   38 table of contents item 1a. risk factors.   is the impact, if any, on potential claim payments and ultimate losses of the securities within ambac assurance’s portfolio. in addition, there can be no assurance that any of the governmental or private sector initiatives designed to address such credit deterioration in the markets will be successful or inure to the benefit of the transactions insured by ambac. servicer settlements with governmental authorities regarding foreclosure irregularities are generally designed to protect homeowners and may increase losses on securities insured by ambac. in addition, there can be no assurance that we would be successful, or that we would not be delayed, in enforcing the subordination provisions, credit enhancements or other contractual provisions of the rmbs that ambac assurance insures in the event of litigation or the bankruptcy of other transaction parties. the change in composition of the securities in our investment portfolio exposes us to greater risk. ambac assurance maintains a portion of its investment portfolio in lower-rated securities in order to increase the risk-adjusted return on its portfolio. investments in lower-rated securities and “alternative assets” could expose ambac to increased losses and decreased liquidity in the investment portfolio. loss reserves may not be adequate to cover potential losses; changes in loss reserves may result in further volatility of net income and earnings. loss reserves are established when management has observed credit deterioration, in most cases, when the underlying credit is considered below investment grade. loss reserves established with respect to our non-derivative financial guarantee insurance policies are based upon estimates and judgments by management, including estimates and judgments with respect to the probability of default, the severity of loss upon default, management’s ability to execute commutation transactions and estimated remediation recoveries for, among other things, breaches by rmbs issuers of representations and warranties. furthermore, the objective of establishing loss reserve estimates is not to reflect the worst possible outcome. as a result of the inherent uncertainties in the estimates and judgments made to determine loss reserves, there can be no assurance that either the actual losses in our financial guarantee insurance portfolio will not exceed such reserves or that our reserves will not increase or decrease materially over time as circumstances, our assumptions, or our models change. as described elsewhere herein, any changes to the segregated account rehabilitation plan in respect of the treatment of the portion of claims that is not paid in cash on an as-presented basis could cause ambac assurance to lose its entitlement to certain reimbursements or to incur additional interest payment obligations, which could result in a material change in our loss reserves. additionally, inherent in our estimates of loss severities and remediation recoveries is the assumption that we will retain control rights in respect of our insured portfolio. however, according to the terms of relevant transaction documents, we are subject to the loss of control rights in many insured transactions in the event that we are the subject of delinquency proceedings and/or other regulatory actions which could result from our deteriorated financial position. in the event that we lose control rights, our ability to mitigate loss severities and realize remediation recoveries will be compromised, and actual ultimate losses in our insured portfolio could exceed our loss reserves. the rehabilitation court issued an injunction effective until further order of the court enjoining certain actions by holders of policies in the segregated account and other counterparties, including actions resulting in the loss of control rights. if this injunction does not successfully preclude such actions, ambac assurance could lose its control rights with respect to policies in the segregated account. we also rely on internally and externally developed complex financial models, including licensed models related to rmbs, to project performance of our insured obligations. differences in the models that we employ, and/or flaws in these financial models and/or faulty assumptions inherent in these financial models and those   39 table of contents item 1a. risk factors.   determined by management, could lead to increased losses and loss reserves. uncertainty with respect to the ultimate performance of certain of our insured exposures may result in substantial changes in loss reserves and/or actual losses. moreover, modeled estimates of transaction performance depend in part on our interpretations of contracts and other bases of our legal rights. such interpretations may prove to be incorrect or different interpretations may be employed by bond trustees and other transaction participants, which could lead to increased losses and loss reserves. our credit risk management policies and practices may not adequately identify significant risks. as described in part i, item 1, “business—risk management” of this form 10-k, we have established risk management policies and practices which seek to mitigate our exposure to credit risk in our insured portfolio. ongoing surveillance of credit risks in our insured portfolio is an important component of our risk management. these policies and practices in the past have not insulated us from risks that were unforeseen and which had unanticipated loss severity, and such policies and practices may not do so in the future. there can be no assurance that these policies and practices will be adequate to avoid future losses. if we are not able to identify significant risks, we may not be able to and/or timely remediate such risks, thereby increasing the amount of losses to which we are exposed. an inability to identify significant risks could also result in the failure to establish loss reserves that are sufficient in relation to such risks. changes in prevailing interest rate levels could adversely impact our business results and prospects. increases in prevailing interest rate levels can adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. in the event that investments must be sold in order to pay claims or to meet financial services liquidity needs due to contract terminations or collateral posting requirements, such investments would likely be sold at discounted prices. additionally, increasing interest rates would have an adverse impact on our insured portfolio. for example, increasing interest rates could result in higher claim payments in respect of defaulted obligations that bear interest at floating rates of interest. higher interest rates can also lead to increased credit stress on consumer asset-backed transactions in our insured portfolio (as the securitized assets supporting a portion of these exposures are floating rate consumer obligations); slower prepayment speeds and resulting “extension risk” relative to such consumer asset-backed transactions in our insured portfolio and in our investment portfolio and decreased volume of capital markets activity. decreasing interest rates could result in early terminations of financial guarantee insurance policies in respect of which we are paid on an installment basis and do not receive a termination premium, thus reducing premium earned in respect of these transactions. decreases in prevailing interest rates may also limit growth of or reduce investment income and may adversely impact the result of our interest rate swap portfolio. revenues and cash flow would be adversely impacted due to a decline in realization of installment premiums. due to the installment nature of a significant percentage of its premium income, ambac assurance has an embedded future revenue stream. the amount of installment premiums actually realized by ambac assurance could be reduced in the future due to factors such as early termination of insurance contracts, accelerated prepayments of underlying obligations or insufficiency of cash flows (by the premium paying entity). additionally, the segregated account rehabilitation proceedings may result in the loss of installment premium income from such insured transactions if orders of the rehabilitation court are not effective. such reductions would result in lower revenues. we are subject to credit risk throughout our businesses, including large single risks, risk concentrations, correlated risks and reinsurance counterparty credit risk. we are exposed to the risk that issuers of debt which we have insured (or with respect to which we have written credit derivatives), issuers of debt which we hold in our investment portfolio, reinsurers and other   40 table of contents item 1a. risk factors.   contract counterparties (including derivative counterparties) may default in their financial obligations, whether as the result of insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. these credit risks could cause increased losses and loss reserves, estimates of credit impairments and mark-to-market losses with respect to credit derivatives in our financial guarantee business; and we could experience losses and decreases in the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. such credit risks may be in the form of large single risk exposures to particular issuers, reinsurers or counterparties; losses caused by catastrophic events (including terrorist acts and natural disasters); losses caused by increases in municipal defaults; or losses in respect of different, but correlated, credit exposures. risks that impact assets in our investment portfolio could adversely affect our ability to pay our liabilities and accordingly have a negative effect on our operations. our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by events and developments in the capital markets including interest rate movements, credit rating downgrades, abs and rmbs prepayment speeds, foreign exchange movements, spread volatility, and credit losses. to the extent we need to liquidate large blocks of investment assets in order to pay claims under financial guarantee insurance policies, to make payments under investment agreements and/or to collateralize our obligations under investment agreements and interest rate swaps, such investment assets could be sold at prices less than fair value as of december 31, 2013. market risks could adversely impact our assets posted as collateral in respect of investment agreements and interest rate swap transactions. we are required to post collateral with respect to certain investment agreements and interest rate swap transactions. see part ii, item 7, “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—liquidity and capital resources—credit ratings and collateral” of this form 10-k. we will be required to post additional collateral if the market value of the assets used to collateralize our obligations declines or if there are changes in the collateral posting obligations under these agreements and transactions. these collateral-posting obligations could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. at present, these collateral-posting requirements are being partially satisfied by loans from ambac assurance to the financial services businesses. as required by wisconsin law, these transactions were approved by the oci. to the extent that collateral-posting requirements increase as a result of changes in market conditions, as described above, it is likely that ambac assurance would need to provide increased lending capacity to the financial services businesses in order to satisfy these collateral-posting obligations. any such increases to lending capacity would be subject to the prior consent of the oci; there can be no assurance that we would obtain such consent. we believe that the oci would consider several factors in determining whether to grant such consent, including its view of ambac assurance’s financial condition at the time of such loan or contribution. if the financial services businesses fail to post collateral as required, counterparties may be entitled to terminate the transactions. upon such terminations, we may be forced to liquidate securities with unrealized mark-to-market losses which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. see part ii, item 7, “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—liquidity and capital resources—credit ratings and collateral” of this form 10-k. the termination of such transactions, if unpaid by our financial services businesses, would trigger ambac assurance’s obligations to make payments under the financial guarantee insurance policies it previously issued. to the extent that the oci determines that the payment by ambac assurance under such policies could place ambac assurance in a hazardous condition, the oci could initiate rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance.   41 table of contents item 1a. risk factors.   we are subject to credit and liquidity risk due to unscheduled and unanticipated withdrawals on investment agreements. ambac’s investment agreement business has issued investment agreements to investors that may allow for early withdrawal (i.e. deviate from a defined or expected withdrawal schedule). the provisions that allow for early withdrawal vary by transaction but include events such as credit events, early call provisions, loss events, construction project development variance and changes in tax laws. to the extent we experience an increase in unanticipated withdrawals, the investment agreement business may be required to liquidate certain asset holdings. early liquidation of asset holdings could result in realized losses. we are subject to the risk of litigation and regulatory inquiries or investigations, and the outcome of proceedings we are or may become involved in could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial position, profitability or cash flows. ambac assurance is defending various lawsuits relating to its financial guarantee business as well as securities that it has issued. in addition, the company has received various regulatory inquiries and requests for information. please see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k for information on these various proceedings. it is not possible to predict whether additional suits will be filed or whether additional inquiries or requests for information will be made, and it is also not possible to predict the outcome of litigation, inquiries or requests for information. it is possible that there could be unfavorable outcomes in these or other proceedings. management is unable to make a meaningful estimate of the amount or range of loss that could result from unfavorable outcomes or of the expenses that will be incurred in defending these lawsuits. under some circumstances, adverse results in any such proceedings and/or the incurrence of significant litigation expenses could be material to our business, operations, financial position, profitability or cash flows. system security risks, data protection breaches and cyber-attacks could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we rely on our information technology systems for many enterprise-critical functions and a prolonged failure or interruption of these systems for any reason could cause significant disruption to our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. our information technology and application systems may be vulnerable to threats from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber attack and other similar disruptions. computer hackers may be able to penetrate our network’s system security and misappropriate or compromise confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. in addition to our own confidential information, we sometimes receive and are required to protect confidential information from third parties. to the extent any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of our confidential information or that of others, it could cause significant financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered by insurance, damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with third parties, lead to claims against us, result in regulatory action, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to mitigate the damage caused by any security breach, or to protect against future damage. moreover, although we have disaster recovery and business continuity plans in place, we may not be able to adequately execute these plans in a timely fashion in the event of a disruption to our information technology and application systems. financial markets have recently been affected by concerns over u.s. fiscal policy. financial markets have been affected by concerns over u.s. fiscal policy, including uncertainty regarding the federal budget, the federal government’s debt ceiling, and the federal deficit. these issues could, on their   42 table of contents item 1a. risk factors.   own, or combined with unfavorable economic conditions, send the united states into a new recession, have severe repercussions to the united states and global credit and financial markets, further exacerbate concerns over sovereign debt of other countries and disrupt economic activity in the united states and elsewhere. a recession in the united states could adversely affect the performance of ambac’s investments or result in impairments, and could have a material adverse effect on ambac’s business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, future fiscal policies may have adverse effects on the economy and on consumers, which could increase the risk of default on collateral backing securities that we insure. the determination of the amount of other-than temporary impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. the determination of the amount of impairments on our investments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in impairments as such evaluations are revised. there can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future. historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. we use externally developed financial models to project impairments with respect to rmbs held in our investment portfolio, including ambac assurance guaranteed rmbs. differences in the models we employ and/or flaws in these models and/or faulty assumptions inherent in these models and those determined by management, could lead to increased impairments with respect to rmbs in our investment portfolio. we may incur losses resulting from operational risk due to inadequate or failed internal processes, breakdown of settlement or communication systems, inadequate execution of strategy or from external events leading to disruption of our business. events subject to operational risk include:     •   internal fraud-misappropriation of assets, intentional mismarking of positions     •   external fraud-theft of information, third-party theft and forgery     •   clients, products, & business practice-improper trade, fiduciary breaches     •   damage to physical assets-vandalism     •   business disruption & system failures-software failures, hardware failures; and     •   execution, delivery, & process management-data entry errors, accounting errors, failed mandatory reporting, settlement errors, and negligence. we may be adversely affected by failures in services or products provided by third parties. we have outsourced and may continue to outsource certain segments of our operations and business, and rely upon third-party vendors for other essential services and information, such as the provision of data used in setting loss reserves. a material failure by an external service or information provider or a material defect in the products, services or information provided thereby could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our inability to attract and retain qualified executives and employees or the loss of any of these personnel could negatively impact our business. our ability to execute on our business strategies depend on the retention and recruitment of qualified executives and other professionals. we rely substantially upon the services of our current executive team. in addition to these officers, we require key staff with risk mitigation, structured finance, insurance, credit,   43 table of contents item 1a. risk factors.   investment, accounting, finance, legal and technical skills. as a result of ambac’s financial situation and the rehabilitation proceedings for the segregated account, there is an increased risk that executive officers and other key staff will leave the company and replacements may not be incented to join the company. the loss of the services of members of our senior management team or our inability to hire and retain other talented personnel could delay or prevent us from succeeding in executing our strategies, which could further negatively impact our business.   item 1b. unresolved