item 1a. risk factors references in the risk factors to “ambac” are to ambac financial group, inc. references to “we,” “our,” “us” and “company”) are to ambac, ambac assurance corporation, everspan financial guarantee corp., and ambac credit products llc as the context requires. a long period of operations under chapter 11 protection may harm our business. as with any judicial proceeding, there are risks of unavoidable delay with a chapter 11 proceeding and there are risks of objections from certain stakeholders, including objections from the holders of unsecured notes that vote to reject a plan of reorganization. any material delay in the confirmation of a plan, or the threat of rejection of the plan by the bankruptcy court, would not only add substantial expense and uncertainty to the process, but also would adversely affect our operations during this period. so long as the chapter 11 proceeding continues, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort working on the reorganization, distracting focus from our business operations. a prolonged period of operating under chapter 11 protection may also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to effect a successful reorganization. see “2010 overview” located in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k for additional information. furthermore, so long as the chapter 11 proceedings continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the administration of the chapter 11 proceedings. a   27 table of contents prolonged continuation of the chapter 11 proceedings may also require us to seek financing. if we require financing during the chapter 11 proceedings and we are unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, our chances of successfully reorganizing our businesses may be seriously jeopardized, and as a result, our assets and securities could become further devalued or worthless. under the bankruptcy code, all debtors must obtain bankruptcy court approval to, among other things:     •   sell assets or engage in other actions outside the ordinary course of business;     •   consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and     •   obtain financing. in addition, if a trustee is appointed to operate us while in chapter 11 bankruptcy, the trustee would assume control of our assets. while management believes that ambac will have sufficient liquidity to satisfy its needs until it emerges from the bankruptcy proceeding, no guarantee can be given that it will be able to pay all expenses. if its liquidity runs out prior to emergence from bankruptcy, a liquidation of ambac pursuant to chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code will occur. in the event of a chapter 7 liquidation, the company is likely to be unable to utilize a substantial portion of its nols. however, the company’s nols could be used to offset income of ambac assurance realized prior to a completion of a liquidation. there is significant uncertainty as to how ambac’s securityholders will be treated under any plan of reorganization. to date, ambac has been unable to agree to terms with the creditors committee in order to restructure its outstanding debt through a prepackaged bankruptcy proceeding. however, ambac has agreed to a non-binding term sheet that continues to serve as a basis for negotiations with the creditors committee and that may allow ambac to emerge from bankruptcy in a timely manner. because a plan of reorganization (a “reorganization plan”) has not yet been agreed to, there is significant uncertainty as to how holders of ambac’s securities will be treated under the reorganization plan. it is likely, however, that ambac’s debtholders and creditors will receive all equity in the company. if ambac’s exclusivity period lapses, any party in interest would be able to file a plan of reorganization for ambac. upon commencing the bankruptcy filing, ambac had the exclusive right for 120 days after the petition date to file a plan of reorganization and, if we do so, 60 additional days to obtain necessary acceptances of the plan. ambac filed and received bankruptcy court approval to extend its exclusive rights to file a plan of reorganization and obtain necessary acceptances of the plan by 120 days to and including july 6, 2011 and september 6, 2011, respectively. further extensions are subject to approval by the bankruptcy court. if ambac’s exclusivity period lapses, any party in interest would be able to file a plan of reorganization for ambac. in that context, we cannot predict whether ambac’s security holders will be treated better or worse and whether the consolidated value of the company will be maximized. a reorganization plan will not be confirmed by the bankruptcy court unless it concludes that the reorganization plan satisfies all requirements of section 1129 of the bankruptcy code, including but not limited to the requirements that the reorganization plan is feasible, “does not discriminate unfairly” and is “fair and equitable” with respect to certain classes in the chapter 11 filing. in order to confirm a plan of reorganization, a debtor must satisfy all of the requirements set forth in section 1129(a) of the bankruptcy code, including but not limited to the requirement that the plan of reorganization is feasible. such feasibility requirement obligates a debtor to show that confirmation of the plan is not likely to be followed by the liquidation, or the need for further financial reorganization, of the debtor or any successor in interest to the debtor under the plan, unless such liquidation or reorganization is proposed in the plan.   28 table of contents in addition, in the event any impaired class of claims or equity interests does not accept a plan of reorganization, a bankruptcy court may nevertheless confirm such plan at the proponent’s request under section 1129(b) of the bankruptcy code if at least one impaired class has accepted the plan (with such acceptance being determined without including the vote of any “insider” in such class), and, as to each impaired class that has not accepted the plan, the bankruptcy court determines that the plan “does not discriminate unfairly” and is “fair and equitable” with respect to the dissenting impaired classes. because certain classes in the bankruptcy filing will likely be deemed to reject any reorganization plan, these additional requirements of section 1129(b) must be satisfied with respect to such classes in the bankruptcy filing. if these classes assert that the reorganization plan does not meet the aforementioned requirements of sections 1129(a) and (b) of the bankruptcy code, there is no assurance that the bankruptcy court will confirm the reorganization plan. if the bankruptcy court does not approve the reorganization plan for any reason, or does not approve the plan in a timely manner, there is increased risk that a liquidation of ambac pursuant to chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code will occur. disputes, including litigation, between ambac and ambac assurance regarding the allocation of certain tax attributes, including nols, could reduce the overall value of the company. if the negotiations among ambac, ambac assurance, oci and the creditors’ committee do not produce an agreement among the parties with respect to the allocation of potential sources of value (principally, nols and other claims with respect to certain payments made by ambac to ambac assurance pursuant to the tax sharing agreement) and expenses, ambac’s creditors could take actions which would adversely affect ambac assurance and/or the segregated account. for example, the creditors could seek to impose a constructive trust with respect to cash payments received by ambac assurance and/or seek to re-organize ambac’s ownership interest in ambac assurance in order to achieve a de-consolidation of ambac and ambac assurance for tax purposes, with the result that ambac would become entitled to the use of all nols in existence on the date of such de-consolidation. such disputes and/or litigation between ambac and ambac assurance could prolong the chapter 11 proceeding, with resultant increases in the expenses of the chapter 11 proceeding, and could ultimately impair ambac’s ability to successfully reorganize. additionally, such disputes and/or litigation could prompt oci to initiate rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance, either preemptively, or in response to any such action; initiation of a rehabilitation proceeding with respect to ambac assurance could decrease the residual value, if any, of ambac assurance. pursuit of litigation by the parties in interest could disrupt the confirmation of a reorganization plan and could have material adverse effects on our businesses and financial condition. there can be no assurance that any of the parties in interest will not pursue litigation strategies to enforce any claims against us. for example, on january 13, 2011, the irs filed a motion in the united states district court for the southern district of new york (“usdc sdny”) to withdraw the adversary proceeding from the bankruptcy court to the usdc sdny. litigation is by its nature uncertain and there can be no assurance of the ultimate resolution of any such claims. any litigation may be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to our normal business operations and the reorganization plan confirmation process, and a resolution of any such strategies that is unfavorable to us could have a material adverse affect on the reorganization plan confirmation process or their respective businesses, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flow. historical financial information may not be comparable. following confirmation of a reorganization plan and the transactions contemplated thereby, our financial condition and results of operations from and after the effective date of the reorganization plan may not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements.   29 table of contents the occurrence of certain events could result in the initiation of rehabilitation proceedings against ambac assurance, with resulting adverse consequences to holders of ambac securities. the irs and certain policyholders whose policies were allocated to the segregated account have challenged the establishment of the segregated account. if such challenges are successful, oci may determine that it is in the best interests of policyholders to initiate rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance. similarly, if negotiations among ambac, the creditors committee, oci and the rehabilitator of the segregated account do not produce an agreement among the parties, ambac (or its creditors) could take actions which would adversely affect ambac assurance and/or the segregated account. as such, oci may determine that it is in the best interests of policyholders to initiate rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance, either preemptively or in response to any such action. finally, the incurrence of large losses in respect of policies in the general account of ambac assurance and other unknown contingencies (including disputes between ambac and ambac assurance and/or the segregated account) might occur which would prompt oci to initiate rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance. if, as a result of the occurrence of any such event(s), the oci decides to initiate rehabilitation proceedings with respect to ambac assurance, adverse consequences may result, including, without limitation, the assertion of damages by counterparties (including mark-to-market claims with respect to insured transactions executed in isda format) and the acceleration of losses based on early termination triggers and the loss of control rights in insured transactions, thereby reducing the residual value of ambac assurance. additionally, the rehabilitator would assume control of all of ambac assurance’s assets and management of ambac assurance. in exercising control, the rehabilitator will act for the benefit of policyholders, and will not take into account the interests of securityholders of ambac; such actions may result in material adverse consequences for ambac’s securityholders. in addition, the initiation of delinquency proceedings against ambac assurance would further decrease the likelihood that oci will permit ambac assurance to make future dividend payments to ambac. as a result of the segregated account rehabilitation proceedings, various adverse events in the insured portfolio may be triggered. if injunctions issued by the rehabilitation court enjoining such adverse effects are ineffective, substantial adverse events may occur. the rehabilitation court issued an injunction effective until further order of the court enjoining certain actions by segregated account policyholders and other counterparties, including the assertion of damages or acceleration of losses (including mark-to-market claims with respect to insured transactions executed in isda format) based on early termination triggers and the loss of control rights in insured transactions. if the challenges to the injunction that have been filed are successful, losses in the segregated account would likely increase substantially. our inability to realize the remediation recoveries included in our loss reserves could adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition and lead to delinquency proceedings. as of december 31, 2010, we have estimated subrogation recoveries of $2,391.3 million (net of reinsurance), which is included in our loss reserves. these recoveries are based principally on contractual claims arising from rmbs transactions which we have insured, and represent our estimate of the amount we will ultimately recover. however, our ability to recover these amounts is subject to significant uncertainty, including risks inherent in litigation, collectability of such amounts from counterparties and/or their respective parents and affiliates, timing of receipt of any such recoveries, regulatory intervention which could impede our ability to take the actions required to realize such recoveries and uncertainty inherent in the assumptions used in estimating such recoveries. the amount of these subrogation recoveries is significant and if we were unable to recover any amounts our stockholders’ deficit as of december 31, 2010 would increase from $1,354.2 million to $3,745.5 million.   30 table of contents actions of the rehabilitator could adversely affect ambac, including impacting our ability to realize our remediation recoveries. as a consequence of the segregated account rehabilitation proceedings, the rehabilitator retains operational control and decision-making authority with respect to all matters related to the segregated account, including surveillance, remediation, loss mitigation and efforts to recover losses in the segregated account, including recovery efforts in respect of breaches of representations and warranties by sponsors of ambac-insured rmbs. similarly, by virtue of the contracts executed between ambac assurance and the segregated account in connection with the establishment, and subsequent rehabilitation, of the segregated account, the rehabilitator retains the discretion to oversee and approve certain actions taken by ambac assurance in respect of assets and liabilities which remain in ambac assurance. as a result, any efforts to remediate losses, and any actions taken by ambac assurance, are subject to the approval of the rehabilitator. in exercising such authority, the rehabilitator will act for the benefit of policyholders, and will not take into account the interests of securityholders of ambac. decisions made by the rehabilitator for the benefit of policyholders may result in material adverse consequences for ambac’s securityholders. in addition, we are not able to predict the impact such oversight will have on the remediation of losses, and, in particular, on our efforts to recover losses attributable to breaches of representations and warranties by sponsors of ambac-insured rmbs and our ability to commute outstanding policies and repurchase surplus notes, nor whether the rehabilitator will pursue such remediation as vigorously as we have done in the past. in addition, as a result of the segregated account rehabilitation proceedings, certain key personnel have chosen to leave ambac, and additional people may decide to leave. the loss of such personnel could adversely impact ambac’s remediation efforts. loss reserves may not be adequate to cover potential losses; changes in loss reserves may result in further volatility of net income and earnings. loss reserves established with respect to our non-derivative financial guarantee insurance business are based upon estimates and judgments by management, including estimates and judgments with respect to the probability of default, the severity of loss upon default and estimated remediation recoveries for, among other things, breaches by the issuer of representations and warranties. loss reserves are established when management has observed credit deterioration, in most cases, when the underlying credit is considered below investment grade. furthermore, the objective of establishing loss reserve estimates is not to reflect the worst possible outcome. as such, there can be no assurance that the actual losses in our financial guarantee insurance portfolio will not exceed our loss reserves. a further description of our accounting for loss and loss expenses can be found in note 2 of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this form 10-k. additionally, inherent in our estimates of loss severities and remediation recoveries is the assumption that we will retain control rights in respect of our insured portfolio. however, we are subject to the loss of control rights in many insured transactions, in the event that we are the subject of delinquency proceedings and/or other regulatory actions which could result from our deteriorated financial position. in the event that we lose control rights, our ability to mitigate loss severities and realize remediation recoveries will be compromised, and actual ultimate losses in our insured portfolio could exceed our loss reserves. the rehabilitation court issued an injunction effective until further order of the court enjoining certain actions by holders of policies in the segregated account and other counterparties, including the loss of control rights. if this injunction were successfully challenged, ambac assurance could lose its control rights with respect to policies in the segregated account. we also rely on internally and externally developed complex financial models to project performance of our insured obligations. flaws in these financial models and/or faulty assumptions used by these financial models could lead to increased losses and loss reserving. in addition, for 2011, we expect to implement a new rmbs loss reserve model which could produce increased projected losses and loss reserves estimates for our rmbs portfolios. uncertainty with respect to the ultimate performance of certain of our insured exposures may result in substantial changes in loss reserves and/or actual losses. correspondingly, such changes to loss reserves would affect our reported earnings. if we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet the increase in actual losses, our insurance operating subsidiaries may become subject to delinquency proceedings.   31 table of contents some of the state and local governments and finance authorities that issue public finance obligations we insure are experiencing unprecedented budget shortfalls that could result in increased credit losses or impairments on those obligations we have historically experienced low levels of defaults in our u.s. public finance insured portfolio, including during the financial crisis that began in mid-2007. however, recently many state and local governments that issue some of the obligations we insure have reported unprecedented budget shortfalls that will require them to significantly raise taxes and/or cut spending in order to satisfy their obligations. while there has been some support provided by the u.s. federal government designed to provide aid to state and local governments, certain state and local governments remain under extreme financial stress. if the issuers of the obligations in our u.s. public finance portfolio are unable to raise taxes, cut spending, or receive federal assistance, we may experience losses or impairments on those obligations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to operational risks with respect to the distribution of surplus notes in connection with the payment of claim liabilities of the segregated account. under the plan of rehabilitation, the segregated account will partially satisfy its claim liabilities through the issuance of surplus notes. in certain circumstances, ambac assurance, as management services provider, may be handling the distribution of the surplus notes issued by the segregated account. in connection with this process, ambac assurance has operational risks that the surplus notes may not be issued, settled or accounted for properly. market risks could adversely impact our assets posted as collateral in respect of investment agreements and interest rate swap and currency swap transactions. as a result of the downgrades of ambac assurance’s financial strength rating, we are required to post collateral with respect to certain investment agreements, interest rate swap and currency swap transactions. see part ii, item 7, “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—liquidity and capital resources—credit ratings and collateral” of this form 10-k. we will be required to post additional collateral if the market value of the assets used to collateralize our obligations declines or if there are changes in the collateral posting obligations under these agreements and transactions. these collateral-posting obligations could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. at present, these collateral-posting requirements are being partially satisfied by ambac assurance and by loans from ambac assurance to the financial services businesses. as required by wisconsin law, these transactions were approved by the oci. to the extent that collateral-posting requirements increase as a result of changes in market conditions, as described above, it is likely that ambac assurance would need to provide increased lending capacity to the financial services businesses in order to satisfy these collateral-posting obligations. any such increases to lending capacity would be subject to the prior consent of the oci; there can be no assurance that we would obtain such consent. we believe that the oci would consider several factors in determining whether to grant such consent, including its view of ambac assurance’s financial condition at the time of such loan or contribution. if the financial services businesses fail to post collateral as required, counterparties may be entitled to terminate the transactions. upon such terminations, we could liquidate securities with unrealized mark-to-market losses which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. see part ii, item 7, “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—liquidity and capital resources—credit ratings and collateral” of this form 10-k. the termination of such transactions, if unpaid by our financial services businesses, would trigger ambac assurance’s obligations to make payments under the financial guarantee insurance policies it previously issued. to the extent that the oci determines that the payment by ambac assurance under such policies could place ambac assurance in a hazardous condition, the oci could seize ambac assurance and place it into rehabilitation.   32 table of contents risks which impact assets in our investment portfolio could adversely affect our business. our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by events and developments in the capital markets, including interest rate movements; credit rating downgrades and foreign exchange movements. please refer to the table in part ii, item 7 “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—balance sheet” of this form 10-k, representing the fair value, including the value of the financial guarantee, and weighted-average underlying rating, excluding the financial guarantee, of the insured securities at december 31, 2010. during the course of 2010, management identified and periodically revised certain investment securities in the investment portfolio to potentially sell in connection with plans to reposition the investment portfolio and/or to meet potential liquidity needs. we recorded an impairment charge through income on the portion of those securities which were in an unrealized loss position. additionally, management determined that certain investments had suffered credit impairments. credit impaired securities included certain securities that are guaranteed by ambac under policies that are subject to the segregated account rehabilitation plan. we recorded an impairment charge through income in the amount of the estimated credit impairment on such securities. the impairments in value in the remaining investment portfolio are not deemed other-than-temporary, as such the remaining unrealized losses have been recognized in other comprehensive income. please see note 3 “investments” in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information. to the extent we liquidate large blocks of investment assets in order to pay claims under financial guarantee insurance policies, to make payments under investment agreements and/or to collateralize our obligations under investment agreements and interest rate swaps, such investment assets could be sold at prices less than fair value as of december 31, 2010. refer to note 3 “investments” in the notes to consolidated financial statements for more information regarding the fair value of investment assets. prior to the rating agency actions on ambac assurance, ambac assurance managed its investment portfolio in accordance with rating agency standards for a aaa-rated insurance company. as a result of the significant declines in ambac assurance’s financial strength ratings, it is no longer necessary to comply with the strict investment portfolio guidelines for a aaa-rated company. therefore, ambac assurance has decided to maintain a portion of its investment portfolio in lower-rated securities in order to increase the investment return on its portfolio. the investment in lower-rated securities and “alternative assets” could expose ambac to increased losses on its investment portfolio in excess of those described above and/or decrease the liquidity of the insured portfolio. however, ambac assurance’s investment policies are subject to certain covenants made for the benefit of the segregated account and the settlement agreement for the benefit of the counterparties. any such changes could adversely impact the performance of the investment portfolio. the determination of the amount of impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. the determination of the amount of impairments on our investments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. there can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future. historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. in addition, in 2011, we expect to implement a new rmbs cash flow analysis model, which could produce increased projected impairments with regard to our investment portfolio.   33 table of contents we are subject to credit and liquidity risk due to unscheduled and unanticipated withdrawals on investment agreements. ambac’s investment agreement business has issued investment agreements to investors that may allow for early withdrawal (i.e. deviate from a defined or expected withdrawal schedule). the provisions that allow for early withdrawal vary by transaction but include events such as credit events, early call provisions, loss events, construction project development variance and changes in tax code. to the extent we experience an increase in unanticipated withdrawals, the investment agreement business may be required to liquidate certain asset holdings. this early liquidation of asset holdings may result in a realized loss. we are subject to dispute risk in connection with our reinsurance agreements. in addition to having credit exposure to our reinsurance counterparties, we are exposed to the risk that reinsurance counterparties may dispute their obligations to make payments required by applicable reinsurance agreements, including scheduled payments and payments due in connection with the termination of reinsurance agreements. such disputes could result in our being unable to collect all amounts due from reinsurers and/or collecting such amounts after potentially lengthy dispute resolution processes. our inability to attract and retain qualified executives and employees or the loss of any of these personnel could negatively impact our business. our ability to mitigate losses in ambac assurance’s insured portfolio and in the segregated account and to effectively implement a reorganization under chapter 11 depend on the retention and recruitment of qualified executives and other professionals. we rely substantially upon the services of our current executive team. in addition to these officers, we require key staff with risk mitigation, structured finance, insurance, credit, investment, accounting and administrative skills. as a result of ambac’s filing for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and the implementation of rehabilitation proceedings against the segregated account, there is an increased risk that executive officers and other key staff will leave the company and replacements may not be incented to join the company. the loss of the services of members of our senior management team, or our inability to hire and retain other talented personnel, could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our remediation strategies, which could further negatively impact our business. we are subject to the risk of litigation and regulatory inquiries or investigations, and the outcome of proceedings we are or may become involved in could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial position, profitability or cash flows. ambac, and certain of its present and former officers and directors, have been named in lawsuits that allege violations of the federal securities laws and/or state law. ambac also has been named in lawsuits relating to transactions entered into by its financial guarantee subsidiary, ambac assurance, and its financial services businesses. in addition, ambac has received various regulatory inquiries and requests for information. please see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k for information on these various proceedings. it is not possible to predict whether additional suits will be filed or whether additional inquiries or requests for information will be made, and it is also not possible to predict the outcome of litigation, inquiries or requests for information. it is possible that there could be unfavorable outcomes in these or other proceedings. management is unable to make a meaningful estimate of the amount or range of loss that could result from unfavorable outcomes or of the expenses that will be incurred in defending these lawsuits. under some circumstances, adverse results in any such proceedings and/or the incurrence of significant litigation expenses could be material to our business, operations, financial position, profitability or cash flows.   34 table of contents we are subject to credit risk and other risks related to rmbs. we have insured rmbs transactions (including transactions comprised of second lien mortgage products, home equity line of credit (“helocs”) and closed end second mortgage loans, and alt-a or mid-prime loans) and are thus exposed to credit risk associated with those asset classes. performance of these transactions can be adversely affected by general economic conditions, including a recession, rising unemployment rates, declining house prices, increasing foreclosure rates and unavailability of consumer credit; mortgage product attributes, such as interest rate adjustments and balloon payment obligations; borrower and/or originator fraud; mortgage servicer underperformance and financial difficulty experienced by such servicers. while further deterioration in the performance of consumer assets, including mortgage-related assets, credit cards, student loans and auto loans and leases, may occur, the extent and duration of any future deterioration of the credit markets is unknown, as is the impact, if any, on potential claim payments and ultimate losses of the securities within ambac assurance’s portfolio. in addition, there can be no assurance that any of the governmental or private sector initiatives designed to address such credit deterioration in the markets will be successful, and there is no way to know the effect that any such initiatives could have on the credit performance over time of the actual securities that ambac assurance insures. in addition, there can be no assurance that we would be successful, or that we would not be delayed, in enforcing the subordination provisions, credit enhancements or other contractual provisions of the rmbs that ambac assurance insures in the event of litigation or the bankruptcy of other transaction parties. many of the subordination provisions, credit enhancements and other contractual provisions of the rmbs that ambac assurance insures are untested in the market and, therefore, it is uncertain how such subordination provisions, credit enhancements and other contractual provisions will be interpreted in the event of an action for enforcement. we are subject to credit risk throughout our businesses, including large single risks, correlated risks and reinsurance counterparty credit risk. we are exposed to the risk that issuers of debt which we have insured (or with respect to which we have written credit derivatives), issuers of debt which we hold in our investment portfolio, reinsurers and other contract counterparties (including derivative counterparties) may default in their financial obligations, whether as the result of insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. these credit risks could cause increased losses and loss reserves, estimates of credit impairments and mark-to-market losses with respect to credit derivatives in our financial guarantee business; and we could experience losses and decreases in the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. such credit risks may be in the form of large single risk exposures to particular issuers, reinsurers or counterparties; losses caused by catastrophic events (including terrorist acts and natural disasters); losses caused by increases in municipal defaults; or losses in respect of different, but correlated, credit exposures. for additional information on our reinsurers, see item 7a, “risk management—credit risk” and “quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk—credit risk” in this form 10-k. our risk management policies and practices may not adequately identify significant risks. as described in part i, item 1, “business—risk management” of this form 10-k, we have established risk management policies and practices which seek to mitigate our exposure to credit risk in our insured portfolio. ongoing surveillance of credit risks in our insured portfolio is an important component of our risk management. these policies and practices in the past have not insulated us from risks that were unforeseen and which had unanticipated loss severity, and such policies and practices may not do so in the future. there can be no assurance that these policies and practices will be adequate to avoid future losses. if we are not able to identify significant risks prior to their occurrence, we may not be able to timely remediate such risks, thereby increasing the amount of losses to which we are exposed.   35 table of contents revenues and cash flow would be adversely impacted due to a decline in realization of installment premiums and transaction-related recoveries. due to the installment nature of a significant percentage of its premium income, ambac assurance has an embedded future revenue stream. the amount of installment premiums actually realized by ambac assurance could be reduced in the future due to factors such as early termination of insurance contracts, accelerated prepayments of underlying obligations or insufficiency of cash flows (by the premium paying entity). additionally, the imposition of a payment moratorium with respect to policies in the segregated account may result in the loss of installment premium income or future recoveries from such insured transactions. such reductions would result in lower revenues. changes in prevailing interest rate levels could adversely impact our business results and prospects. increases in prevailing interest rate levels can adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. in the event that investments must be sold in order to pay claims or to meet financial services liquidity needs due to contract terminations or collateral posting requirements, such investments would likely be sold at discounted prices. additionally, increasing interest rates would have an adverse impact on our insured portfolio. for example, increasing interest rates could result in higher claim payments in respect of defaulted obligations which bear interest at floating rates of interest. higher interest rates can also lead to increased credit stress on consumer asset-backed transactions in our insured portfolio (as the securitized assets supporting a portion of these exposures are floating rate consumer obligations); slower prepayment speeds and resulting “extension risk” relative to such consumer asset-backed transactions in our insured portfolio and in our investment portfolio; decreased volume of capital markets activity and, correspondingly, decreased volume of insured transactions. decreasing interest rates could result in early terminations of financial guarantee insurance policies in respect of which we are paid on an installment basis and do not receive a termination premium, thus reducing premium earned in respect of these transactions. decreases in prevailing interest rates may also limit growth of or reduce investment income and may adversely impact the result of our interest rate swap portfolio. our net income and earnings have become more volatile due to the application of fair value accounting, required under the relevant derivative accounting guidance, to the portion of our credit enhancement business which is executed in credit derivative form. the derivative accounting guidance requires that credit derivative transactions be recorded at fair value. since quoted market prices for the contracts that we execute are not available, we estimate fair value by using models. changes in estimated fair values relative to our credit derivative book have caused decreases in the value of such credit derivative transactions; those changes in value are reported in our financial statements and have therefore affected our reported earnings. similarly, further decreases or increases in estimated fair values in the future can affect our reported earnings. changes in estimated fair values can be caused by general market conditions, uncertainty regarding the quality of high yield corporate loans, student loans or other underlying collateral, perception of credit risk generally and events affecting particular credit derivative transactions (e.g. impairment or improvement of specific reference entities or reference obligations) and perception of the credit risk posed by ambac assurance as insurer of the cds. we are subject to extensive regulation in the conduct of our financial guarantee insurance business; application of and/or amendments to, these insurance laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business results, the company and ambac assurance. our principal subsidiary, ambac assurance, is subject to the insurance laws and regulations of each jurisdiction in which it is licensed. ambac uk, the subsidiary through which we write financial guarantee insurance in the united kingdom and in the european union, is regulated by the financial services authority. failure to comply with applicable insurance laws and regulations (including, without limitation, minimum surplus   36 table of contents requirements, aggregate risk limits and single risk limits) could expose us to fines, the loss of insurance licenses in certain jurisdictions, the imposition of orders by regulators with respect to the conduct of business by ambac assurance and/or the inability of ambac assurance to dividend monies to us, all of which could have an adverse impact on our business results and prospects. recently, there have been legislative and regulatory initiatives with respect to the regulation of financial guarantee insurance companies. any changes to such laws and regulations could subject ambac assurance to increased reserving and capital requirements or more stringent regulation generally, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and future business. see part i, item 1 “business—insurance regulatory matters” in this form 10-k for further information. we are subject to a variety of operational risks which could have a material adverse impact on our business results. we depend on internal processes, risk models, various systems and our employees in the conduct of our business. any failure of such processes, models and systems and/or employee misconduct or fraud could have an adverse impact on our business results. we are also subject to external operational risks, including fraud, settlement risk and the failure of risk models or other analytical tools provided by third parties. any such external fraud or failure could have an adverse impact on our business results. there are limitations on the voting rights attached to our shares of common stock. our subsidiary, ambac assurance, is a wisconsin corporation and is subject to the insurance and regulatory laws of the state of wisconsin. under wisconsin insurance holding company laws, there is a presumption that a holder of 10% or more of ambac’s voting stock controls ambac assurance and any such acquisition of control requires the prior approval of the oci of the state of wisconsin. in addition, as a result of ambac being the holding company of ambac (uk), the prior consent of the uk’s financial services authority (“fsa”) is required for any individual, group or institution who proposes to take a step that would result in becoming a controller, or increasing control, over ambac (uk). among other things, any shareholder must receive the prior consent of the fsa prior to holding 10 percent or more of ambac’s shares. section 4.5 of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that no stockholder may cast votes with respect to 10% or more of our voting stock, regardless of the actual number of shares of voting stock beneficially held by the stockholder. in addition, any voting stock held by a stockholder in excess of 10% will not count in the calculation of or toward a quorum at any meeting of stockholders. in order to avoid these restrictions, a stockholder who acquires or owns 10% or more of our voting stock must have such acquisition or ownership previously approved by the oci of the state of wisconsin or file a disclaimer of “control” approved by such office. the foregoing provisions of the wisconsin insurance holding company laws, uk insurance laws and legal restrictions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or the removal of incumbent management. characterization of losses on our cds portfolio as capital losses for u.s. federal tax purposes could result in a material assessment for federal income taxes. ambac assurance’s cds portfolio experienced significant losses. the majority of these cds contracts are on a “pay as you go” basis, and we believe that they are properly characterized as notional principal contracts for u.s. federal income tax purposes. generally, losses on notional principal contracts are ordinary losses. however, the federal income tax treatment of credit default swaps is an unsettled area of the tax law. as such, it is possible that the internal revenue service may decide that the “pay as you go” cds contracts should be characterized as capital assets or that certain payments made with respect to the cds contracts should be characterized as capital   37 table of contents losses. as of december 31, 2010, ambac and ambac assurance had nol amounting to approximately $7.0 billion for u.s. federal income tax purposes. recently, the internal revenue service opened an examination into certain issues related to ambac’s tax accounting methods with respect to such cds contracts and ambac’s related characterization of such losses as ordinary losses. although, as discussed above, ambac believes these contracts are properly characterized as notional principal contracts, if the internal revenue service today were to successfully assert, as a result of its examination, that these contracts should be characterized as capital assets or as generating capital losses, ambac and ambac assurance would be subject to both a substantial reduction in its net operating loss carryforwards and would suffer a material assessment for federal income taxes. such assessments and reductions in net operating loss carryforwards would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. such assessments related to the tentative refunds may be made by the internal revenue service at any time and, without prior notice to ambac, pursuant to internal revenue code section 6213(b). the internal revenue service may then file a lien that attaches to ambac’s property interests, including the property interests of any member of the consolidated tax group, and commence collection efforts. ambac filed and served a complaint against the irs for a declaratory judgment relating to the tax refunds. if these events occur, ambac assurance’s segregated account rehabilitation plan may be materially impacted and ambac’s ability to effectively reorganize may be seriously jeopardized. the surplus notes issued pursuant to the final terms of the settlement agreement may be characterized as equity of ambac assurance and as a result ambac assurance may no longer be a member of the u.s. federal income tax consolidated group of which the company is the common parent. it is possible the surplus notes may be characterized as equity of ambac assurance for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if the surplus notes are characterized as equity of ambac assurance and it is determined the surplus notes represented more than twenty (20) percent of the total value of the stock of ambac assurance, ambac assurance may no longer be characterized as an includable corporation that is affiliated with the company. as a result, ambac assurance may no longer be characterized as a member of the u.s. federal income tax consolidated group of which the company is the common parent (the “company consolidated tax group”) and ambac assurance would be required to file a separate consolidated tax return as the common parent of a new u.s. federal income tax consolidated group including ambac assurance as the new common parent and ambac assurance’s affiliated subsidiaries (the “aac consolidated tax group”). to the extent ambac assurance is no longer a member of the company consolidated tax group, ambac assurance’s nol (and certain other available tax attributes of ambac assurance and the other members of the aac consolidated tax group) may no longer be available for use by the company or any of the remaining members of the company consolidated tax group to reduce the u.s. federal income tax liabilities of the company consolidated tax group. this could result in a material increase in the tax liabilities of the company consolidated tax group, reducing the cash available to pay third party obligations or dividends. in addition, certain other benefits resulting from u.s. federal income tax consolidation may no longer be available to the company consolidated tax group including certain favorable rules relating to transactions occurring between members of the company consolidated tax group and members of the aac consolidated tax group. deductions with respect to interest accruing on the surplus notes may be eliminated or deferred until payment. to the extent the surplus notes are characterized as equity for u.s. federal income tax purposes, accrued interest will not be deductible. in addition, even if the surplus notes are characterized as debt for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the deduction of interest accruing on the surplus notes may be deferred until paid or eliminated in part depending upon (i) the terms of any deferral and payment provisions provided in the surplus notes, (ii) whether the surplus notes have “significant original issue discount” and (iii) the yield to maturity of the surplus notes. to the extent deductions with respect to interest is eliminated or deferred, the u.s. federal income tax of ambac assurance, the members of the ambac consolidated tax group or the members of the ambac assurance consolidated tax group, as the case maybe, could be materially increased reducing the amount of cash available to pay third party obligations or dividends.   38 table of contents the ambac assurance nol (and certain other tax attributes or tax benefits of the ambac consolidated tax group) may be subject to limitation as a result of the bankruptcy reorganization. under section 382 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the “code”), if a “loss corporation” (generally, a corporation with nols and/or built-in losses) undergoes an “ownership change,” the amount of such corporation’s pre-ownership change nols that may be utilized to offset future taxable income generally is subject to an annual limitation (the “annual section 382 limitation”). in general, the amount of the annual section 382 limitation is equal to the product of (1) the fair market value of the stock of the corporation (or, in the case of a consolidated group, generally the stock of the common parent) immediately before the ownership change (with certain adjustments) and (2) the “long-term tax-exempt rate” in effect for the month in which the ownership change occurs (for example, 3.86 percent for an ownership change that occurs during november 2010). in general, an “ownership change” occurs if shareholders owning 5 percent or more of the corporation’s stock increase their ownership by greater than 50 percentage points over a three-year testing period. it is likely that ambac would undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of section 382 of the code as a result of implementation of a bankruptcy plan of reorganization. ambac hopes to qualify under a special exception contained in section 382(l)(5) of the code (the “l5 exception”) in order to avoid an ownership change as a result of the implementation of the bankruptcy plan of reorganization. in connection with the bankruptcy filing, the bankruptcy court issued an order (the “trading order”) restricting certain transfers of equity interests in and claims against ambac. the purpose of the trading order is to increase the likelihood that ambac may qualify for the l5 exception and thereby preserve ambac’s nols. the trading order implements notice and hearing procedures for transfers by a person or entity that beneficially owns more than 13,500,000 shares of ambac stock. transfers of stock in violation of this trading order will be void ab initio. in addition, the trading order generally requires persons or entities that beneficially own claims against ambac totaling more than $55,000,000 to agree to “sell down” a portion of its claims against ambac prior to a bankruptcy reorganization, such that the claimholder would receive less than 5 percent of reorganized ambac’s stock in a bankruptcy plan of reorganization that may qualify for the l5 exception. any claimholder who does not comply with the trading order would only receive stock in reorganized ambac equal to less than 5 percent of reorganized ambac’s outstanding stock. if ambac does not qualify for the l5 exception, the bankruptcy plan of reorganization will adversely impact the preservation of, and likely substantially impair, the ambac assurance nol, and some or all of ambac’s taxable income after the reorganization may be subject to tax. the amended tax sharing agreement may reduce the cash available to the company limiting the company’s ability to service its obligations to third parties. pursuant to the settlement agreement the existing tax sharing agreement among the members of the company consolidated tax group was terminated as to ambac assurance and its subsidiaries, including everspan (the “aac subgroup”), and was replaced by an agreement that recognizes the consolidated nol of the group as an asset of the aac subgroup and that requires the company to compensate ambac assurance on a current basis for use of any portion of that asset, except that the company shall not be required to compensate ambac assurance for the company’s use of net operating losses in connection with cancellation of debt income associated with restructurings of its bonds outstanding as of march 15, 2010. the amended tax sharing agreement may materially reduce the cash available to the company limiting the company’s ability to service its obligations to third parties or pay dividends. the u.s. federal income tax consequences resulting from the creation of the segregated account are uncertain and ambac assurance may realize gain or loss in connection with the creation of the segregated account. the u.s. federal income tax consequences resulting from the creation of the segregated account are uncertain. for example, to the extent the segregated account were treated as a separate taxable entity, depending   39 table of contents upon the terms of the segregated account rehabilitation plan, gain or loss could be realized by ambac or the new taxable entity (i.e., the segregated account) materially increasing the u.s. federal income tax liability of the relevant party and materially reduce cash available to be pay third party obligations or dividends.   item 1b. unresolved