item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks discussed below and all of the other information contained in this report in evaluating us and an investment in our securities. if any of the following risks and uncertainties should occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. additionally, we note that we are a development stage company and we have accrued net losses annually since inception. we urge you to consider our likelihood of success and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by entities at similar stages of development. risks related to our financial condition our independent auditors have issued a report questioning our ability to continue as a going concern. the report of our independent auditors contained in our financial statements explains that we have not yet established an ongoing source of revenue sufficient to cover operating costs and allow us to continue as a going concern. our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on obtaining adequate capital to fund operating losses until we become profitable. if we are unable to obtain adequate capital, we may have to delay, scale back, or discontinue the development and/or commercialization of one or more product candidates, or relinquish or otherwise dispose of rights to technologies, product candidates, or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves and/or cease operations.   17 we have a history of net losses, and we expect to continue to incur net losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. we have incurred net losses since our inception, including net losses of $22.1 million for the year ended september 30, 2012 and a cumulative net loss since inception of approximately $153.7 million. we expect that our operating losses will continue as we fund our drug development and discovery efforts. to achieve profitability, we must, either directly or through licensing and/or partnering relationships, successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for a drug candidate and effectively manufacture, market and sell any drugs we successfully develop. even if we successfully commercialize drug candidates that receive regulatory approval, we may not be able to realize revenues at a level that would allow us to achieve or sustain profitability. accordingly, we may never generate significant revenue and, even if we do generate significant revenue, we may never achieve profitability. we have limited cash resources. our business currently does not generate the cash that is necessary to finance our operations. we incurred net losses of approximately $22.1 million in 2012 and $153.7 million since our inception. subject to the success of the research and development programs of our company and our partners, and potential licensing or partnering transactions, we will need to raise significant additional capital in the immediate future to:     •   fund research and development activities relating to our development of our product candidates, including clinical and pre-clinical trials;     •   fund our general and administrative activities;     •   pursue licensing opportunities for our technologies;     •   protect our intellectual property; and     •   retain our management and technical staff. our future capital needs depend on many factors, including:     •   the scope, duration and expenditures associated with our research and development;     •   continued scientific progress in these programs;     •   the outcome of potential partnering or licensing transactions, if any;     •   competing technological developments;     •   our proprietary patent position, if any, in our products; and     •   the regulatory approval process for our products. we will need to raise substantial additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional strategic alliances and licensing arrangements in the immediate future to continue our operations. we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. general market conditions, as well as market conditions for companies that are facing financial distress, may make it very difficult for us to seek financing from the capital markets, and the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders. for example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our stockholders will result, which may substantially dilute the value of your investment. in addition, as a condition to providing additional funds to us, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities and, in the event of insolvency, would be paid before holders of equity securities received any distribution of corporate assets. we may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us, in order to raise additional funds through alliance, joint venture or licensing arrangements. if adequate funds are not available, we may have to further delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our planned activities. these actions would likely reduce the market price of our common stock. the current financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. we do not yet generate substantial revenue, and our operations and research and development activities have been primarily funded to date through the sale of company securities and securities of our subsidiaries. the global financial markets are volatile and those market conditions may impair our ability to raise the capital we require. if we are unable to secure additional cash resources from the sale of securities or other sources, it could become necessary to slow or suspend development efforts. in addition, we may have to reduce expenses, which could impair our ability to manage our business. even if investment capital is available to us, the terms may be onerous. because we have not generated significant revenues to cover our operating expenses, we are dependent on raising additional capital from investors or lenders. to date, we have only generated a small amount of revenue. given our strategy of financing new and unproven technology research, there can be no assurance we will ever generate significant revenue. our revenue-producing opportunities depend on our ability to attract collaborations or out-licenses with other companies, receive milestone and royalty payments from prior divestitures, and/or generate income from the sales of products. these sources of revenue are uncertain as to the amount and timing of potential revenue. accordingly, our revenue prospects are uncertain and we must plan to finance our operations through the sales of equity securities or debt financing. if we are unable to continue raising operating capital from these sources, we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations.   18 we will need to achieve commercial acceptance of our applications to generate revenues and achieve profitability. even if our research and development efforts yield technologically feasible applications, we may not successfully develop commercial products which would take years to study in human clinical trials prior to regulatory approval, and, even if successfully developed, we may not do so on a timely basis. during this development period, superior competitive technologies may be introduced which could diminish or extinguish the potential commercial uses for our drug candidates. additionally, the degree to which patients and consumers will adopt any product we develop is uncertain. we cannot predict whether significant commercial market acceptance for our products, if approved, will ever develop, and we cannot reliably estimate the projected size of any such potential market. our revenue growth and achievement of profitability will depend substantially on our ability to introduce new technological applications to manufacturers for products accepted by customers. if we are unable to cost-effectively achieve acceptance of our technology among the medical establishment and patients, or if the associated products do not achieve wide market acceptance, our business will be materially and adversely affected. we have debt on our consolidated balance sheet through our subsidiary, calando, which could have negative consequences if we were unable to repay the principal or interest due. calando has a $500,000 unsecured convertible promissory note outstanding. the note bears 10% interest accrued annually, and matures in november 2013. the note is payable at two times face value at maturity and upon the occurrence of certain events, including, the license of calando’s sirna delivery system. if calando is unable to meet its obligations to the bearer of the note, arrowhead may not be in a position to lend calando sufficient cash to pay such demand note. unless other sources of financing become available, this could result in calando’s insolvency. our subsidiaries are party to technology license agreements with third parties that require us to satisfy obligations to keep them effective and, if these agreements are terminated, our technology and our business would be seriously and adversely affected. through our subsidiaries, we are party into exclusive, long-term license agreements with university of texas md anderson cancer center, california institute of technology, alnylam pharmaceuticals, inc. and other entities to incorporate their proprietary technologies into our proposed products. these license agreements require us to pay royalties and satisfy other conditions, including conditions in some cases related to the commercialization of the licensed technology. we may not be able to successfully incorporate these technologies into marketable products or, if we do, whether sales will be sufficient to recover the amounts that we are obligated to pay to the licensors. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under these agreements the terms of the licenses may be materially modified, such as by rendering the licenses non-exclusive, or may give our licensors the right to terminate their respective agreement with us, which would limit our ability to implement our current business plan and harm our business and financial condition. risks related to our company drug development is time consuming, expensive and risky. we are focused on technology related to new and improved pharmaceutical candidates. product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in animal and early human clinical trials, often fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as:     •   clinical trial results may be unacceptable, even though preclinical trial results were promising;     •   inefficacy and/or harmful side effects in humans or animals;     •   the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the u.s. food and drug administration, may not approve our potential product for the intended use; and     •   manufacturing and distribution may be uneconomical. for example, the positive pre-clinical results for adipotide in animals may not be replicated in human clinical studies or it may be found to be unsafe in humans. additionally, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians and others, which often delays, limits, or prevents further clinical development or regulatory approvals of potential products. clinical trials can take many years to complete, including the process of study design, clinical site selection and the enrollment of patients. as a result, we can experience significant delays in completing clinical studies, which can increase the cost of developing a drug candidate. if our drug candidates are not successful in human clinical trials, we may be forced to curtail or abandon certain development programs. if we experience significant delays in commencing or completing our clinical studies, we could suffer from significant cost overruns, which could negatively affect our capital resources and our ability to complete these studies.   19 we may be unable to attract revenue-generating collaborations with other pharmaceutical and biotech companies to advance our drug candidates. our business strategy includes obtaining collaborations with other pharmaceutical and biotech companies to support the development of our therapeutic sirna and other drug candidates. we may not be able to attract such partners, and even if we are able to enter into such partnerships, the terms may be less favorable than anticipated. further, entering into partnership agreements may limit our commercialization options and/or require us to share revenues and profits with our partners. our products are in the early stages of our development and because we have a short development history with both dpcs and homing peptides, there is a limited amount of information about us upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. we have not begun to market or generate revenues from the commercialization of any products. we have only a limited history upon which one can evaluate our targeted therapeutic business and prospects as our therapeutic products are still at an early stage of development. thus, we have limited experience and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the biopharmaceutical area. for example, to execute our business plan, we will need to successfully:     •   execute product development activities using an unproven technology;     •   build, maintain and protect a strong intellectual property portfolio;     •   gain acceptance for the development and commercialization of any product we develop;     •   develop and maintain successful strategic relationships; and     •   manage our spending and cash requirements as our expenses are expected to increase in the near term due to preclinical and clinical trials. if we are unsuccessful in accomplishing these objectives, we may not be able to develop products, raise capital, expand our business or continue our operations. we may lose a considerable amount of control over our intellectual property and may not receive anticipated revenues in strategic transactions, particularly where the consideration is contingent on the achievement of development or sales milestones. our business model has been to develop new technologies and to exploit the intellectual property created through the research and development process to develop commercially successful products. calando has licensed a portion of its technology to cerulean pharma, inc. and we intend to pursue licensing arrangements with other companies. a significant portion of the potential value from these licenses is tied to the achievement of the development and sales milestones, which we cannot control. similarly, the majority of the consideration, up to $140 million, potentially payable by wisepower in connection with our sale of unidym is tied to the achievement of commercialization milestones, which we cannot control. although wisepower and cerulean are required to use certain minimum efforts to achieve the post-closing milestones, we cannot control whether they actually achieve these milestones. if the acquirers fail to achieve performance milestones, we may not receive a significant portion of the total value of any sale, license or other strategic transaction. there are substantial risks inherent in attempting to commercialize new technological applications, and, as a result, we may not be able to successfully develop products for commercial use. our research and development efforts involve therapeutics based on nanotechnology and rna interference, which are largely unproven technologies. our scientists and engineers are working on developing technology in various stages. however, such technology’s commercial feasibility and acceptance are unknown. scientific research and development requires significant amounts of capital and takes a long time to reach commercial viability, if at all. to date, our research and development projects have not produced commercially viable applications, and may never do so. during the research and development process, we may experience technological barriers that we may be unable to overcome. because of these uncertainties, it is possible that none of our potential applications will be successfully developed. if we are unable to successfully develop applications of our technology for commercial use, we will be unable to generate revenue or build a sustainable or profitable business. we will need to establish additional relationships with strategic and development partners to fully develop and market our products. we do not possess all of the financial and development resources necessary to develop and commercialize products that may result from our technologies on a mass scale. unless we expand our product development capacity and enhance our internal marketing capability, we will need to make appropriate arrangements with strategic partners to develop and commercialize current and future products. if we do not find appropriate partners, or if our existing arrangements or future agreements are not successful, our ability to develop and commercialize products could be adversely affected. even if we are able to find collaborative partners, the overall success of the development and commercialization of product candidates in those programs will depend largely on the efforts of other parties and is beyond our control. in addition, in the event we pursue our commercialization strategy through collaboration, there are a variety of technical, business and legal risks, including:     •   a development partner would likely gain access to our proprietary information, potentially enabling the partner to develop products without us or design around our intellectual property;   20   •   we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators may be willing or able to devote to the development or commercialization of our product candidates or to their marketing and distribution; and     •   disputes may arise between us and our collaborators that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts our management’s resources. the occurrence of any of the above events or other related events not foreseen by us could impair our ability to generate revenues and harm our business and financial condition. we may not be able to effectively secure first-tier technologies when competing against other investors. our success may require that we acquire new or complimentary technologies. however, we compete with a substantial number of other companies that may also compete for technologies we desire. in addition, many venture capital firms and other institutional investors, as well as other pharmaceutical and biotech companies, invest in companies seeking to commercialize various types of emerging technologies. many of these companies have greater financial, scientific and commercial resources than us. therefore, we may not be able to secure the technologies we desire. furthermore, should any commercial undertaking by us prove to be successful, there can be no assurance competitors with greater financial resources will not offer competitive products and/or technologies. we rely on outside sources for various components and processes for our products. we rely on third parties for various components and processes for our products. while we try to have at least two sources for each component and process, we may not be able to achieve multiple sourcing because there may be no acceptable second source, other companies may choose not to work with us, or the component or process sought may be so new that a second source does not exist, or does not exist on acceptable terms. there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators which is beyond our control. if such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business would be adversely affected. therefore, it is possible that our business plans will have to be slowed down or stopped completely at times due to our inability to obtain required raw materials, components and outsourced processes at an acceptable cost, if at all, or to get a timely response from vendors. we must overcome the many obstacles associated with integrating and operating varying development programs. our model to integrate and oversee research and development projects presents many risks, including:     •   the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel; and     •   the diversion of our management’s attention as a result of evaluating, negotiating and integrating acquisitions or new business ventures. if we are unable to timely and efficiently design and integrate administrative and operational support for our subsidiaries, we may be unable to manage projects effectively, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our business objectives and the value of an investment in the company could decline. in addition, consummating acquisitions and strategic relationships could adversely impact our cash position, and dilute stockholder interests, for many reasons, including:     •   collaboration terms that decrease future cash flows from products in exchange for near term benefits;     •   changes to our income to reflect the amortization of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill;     •   interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred to fund our growth strategy; and     •   any issuance of securities to fund our operations or growth, which dilutes or lessens the rights of current stockholders. our success depends on the attraction and retention of senior management and scientists with relevant expertise. our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our key employees, including dr. anzalone, our president and chief executive officer, dr. bruce given, our chief operating officer, and ken myszkowski, our chief financial officer. we do not maintain key man life insurance for any of our executives. our ability to execute our strategy also will depend on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified scientists and management. if we are unable to find, hire and retain qualified individuals, we could have difficulty implementing our business plan in a timely manner, or at all.   21 members of our senior management team and board may have a conflict of interest in also serving as officers and/or directors of our subsidiaries. while we expect that our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of our subsidiaries will comply with their fiduciary duties owed to our stockholders, they may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and the minority stockholders of our subsidiaries. specifically, dr. anzalone, our president and ceo, is the founder, ceo and a board member of nanotope, a regenerative medicine company in which the company owns a 23% interest. further, dr. anzalone as well as dr. mauro ferrari, an arrowhead board member, are board members of leonardo, a drug delivery company in which arrowhead owns a 3% interest. dr. anzalone owns a noncontrolling interest in the stock of nanotope. drs. anzalone and ferrari own a noncontrolling interest in leonardo. douglass given, a member of our board of directors, is the brother of bruce given. to the extent that any of our directors choose to recuse themselves from particular board actions to avoid a conflict of interest, the other members of our board of directors will have a greater influence on such decisions. we face uncertainty related to healthcare reform, pricing and reimbursement, which could reduce our revenue. in the united states, president obama signed in march 2010 the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act (collectively, “ppaca”), which is expected to substantially change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private payers. ppaca provides for changes to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage, encourages improvements in the quality of health care items and services, and significantly impacts the u.s. pharmaceutical industry in a number of ways, further listed below. by extending coverage to a larger population, ppaca may substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. these structural changes, as well as other changes that may be made as part of deficit and debt reduction efforts in congress, could entail modifications to the existing system of private payers and government programs, such as medicare, medicaid and state children’s health insurance program, as well as the creation of a government-sponsored healthcare insurance source, or some combination of both. such restructuring of the coverage of medical care in the united states could impact the extent of reimbursement for prescribed drugs, including our product candidates, biopharmaceuticals, and medical devices. some of the specific ppaca provisions, among other things:     •   establish annual, non-deductible fees on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologics, beginning in 2011;     •   increase minimum medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the medicaid drug rebate program;     •   extend manufacturers’ medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in medicaid managed care organizations;     •   establish a new patient-centered outcomes research institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research;     •   require manufacturers to participate in a coverage gap discount program, under which they must agree to offer 50 percent point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under medicare part d, beginning in 2011; and     •   increase the number of entities eligible for discounts under the public health service pharmaceutical pricing program, effective january 2010. if future reimbursement for approved product candidates, if any, is substantially less than we project, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. sales of any approved drug candidate will depend in part on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers such as government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other health care related organizations. accordingly, coverage and reimbursement may be uncertain. adoption of any drug candidate by the medical community may be limited if third-party payers will not offer coverage. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for any new drug and, in turn, the price that we will be able to charge. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payers. any denial of private or government payer coverage or inadequate reimbursement could harm our business and reduce our revenue. in addition, both the federal and state governments in the united states and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation affecting coverage and reimbursement policies, which are designed to contain or reduce the cost of health care, as well as hold public hearings on these matters, which has resulted in certain private companies dropping the prices of their drugs. further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms are likely, which could limit the prices that can be charged for the product candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our product candidates, if approved and commercialized, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations.   22 there may be a difference in the investment valuations that we used when making initial and subsequent investments in our subsidiaries and minority investments and actual market values. our investments in our subsidiaries and noncontrolling interests were the result of negotiation with subsidiary management and equity holders, and the investment valuations may not always have been independently verified. traditional methods used by independent valuation analysts include a discounted cash flow analysis and a comparable company analysis. we have not generated a positive cash flow to date and do not expect to generate significant cash flow in the near future. additionally, we believe that few comparable public companies exist to provide meaningful valuation comparisons. accordingly, we have not always sought independent valuation analysis in connection with our investments and may have invested in our various holdings at higher or lower valuations than an independent source would have recommended. there may be no correlation between the investment valuations that we used over the years for our investments and the actual market values. if we should eventually sell all or a part of any of our consolidated business or that of a subsidiary, the ultimate sale price may be for a value substantially different than previously determined by us, which could materially and adversely impair the value of our common stock. risks related to our intellectual property our ability to protect our patents and other proprietary rights is uncertain, exposing us to the possible loss of competitive advantage. we have licensed rights to pending patents and have filed and expect to continue to file patent applications. researchers sponsored by us may also file patent applications that we choose to license. if a particular patent is not granted, the value of the invention described in the patent would be diminished. further, even if these patents are granted, they may be difficult to enforce. even if successful, efforts to enforce our patent rights could be expensive, distracting for management, cause our patents to be invalidated, and frustrate commercialization of products. additionally, even if patents are issued and are enforceable, others may independently develop similar, superior or parallel technologies to any technology developed by us, or our technology may prove to infringe upon patents or rights owned by others. finally, patent prosecution is expensive, and we may be forced to curtail prosecution if our cash resources are limited. thus, the patents held by or licensed to us may not afford us any meaningful competitive advantage. if we are unable to derive value from our licensed or owned intellectual property, the value of your investment may decline. we may be subject to patent infringement claims, which could result in substantial costs and liability and prevent us from commercializing our potential products. because the intellectual property landscape in the fields in which we participate is rapidly evolving and interdisciplinary, it is difficult to conclusively assess our freedom to operate without infringing on third party rights. however, we are currently aware of certain patent rights held by third parties that, if found to be valid and enforceable, could be alleged to render one or more of our business lines infringing. if a claim should be brought and is successful, we may be required to pay substantial damages, be forced to abandon any affected business lines and/or seek a license from the patent holder. in addition, any patent infringement claims brought against us, whether or not successful, may cause us to incur significant expenses and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns. these could negatively affect our results of operations and prospects. we cannot be certain that patents owned or licensed by us or our subsidiaries will not be challenged by others. in addition, if our potential products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, these third parties may assert infringement claims against our customers, and we may be required to indemnify our customers for any damages they suffer as a result of these claims. the claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. if any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. if we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to continue selling such products. our technology licensed from various third parties may be subject to government rights and retained rights of the originating research institutions. we license technology from the university of texas md anderson cancer center, caltech, and other universities and companies. our licensors may have obligations to government agencies or universities. under their agreements, a government agency or university may obtain certain rights over the technology that we have developed and licensed, including the right to require that a compulsory license be granted to one or more third parties selected by the government agency. in addition, our licensors often retain certain rights under their agreements with us, including the right to use the underlying technology for noncommercial academic and research use, to publish general scientific findings from research related to the technology, and to make customary scientific and scholarly disclosures of information relating to the technology. it is difficult to monitor whether our licensors limit their use of the technology to these uses, and we could incur substantial expenses to enforce our rights to our licensed technology in the event of misuse.   23 risks related to regulation of our products our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable federal and state regulations. our operations, including our research and development and our commercialization efforts, such as clinical trials, manufacturing and distribution, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot be assured that the company or our employees are, or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations or laws. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations or laws, a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a commercialized product, significant fines, sanctions, or litigation, any of which could harm our business and financial condition. risks related to our stock stockholder equity interest may be substantially diluted in any additional financing. our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of 145,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, on such terms and at such prices as our board of directors may determine. adjusted for the 1 for 10 stock split that was implemented on november 17, 2011, as of september 30, 2012, we had 13,579,185 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. the issuance of additional securities in financing transactions by us or through the exercise of options or warrants will dilute the equity interests of our existing stockholders, perhaps substantially, and might result in dilution in the tangible net book value of a share of our common stock, depending upon the price and other terms on which the additional shares are issued. our common stock price has fluctuated significantly over the last several years and may continue to do so in the future, without regard to our results of operations and prospects. because we are a development stage company, there are few objective metrics by which our progress may be measured. consequently, we expect that the market price of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate significantly. we may not generate substantial revenue from the license or sale of our technology for several years, if at all. in the absence of product revenue as a measure of our operating performance, we anticipate that investors and market analysts will assess our performance by considering factors such as:     •   announcements of developments related to our business;     •   our ability to enter into or extend investigation phase, development phase, commercialization phase and other agreements with new and/or existing partners;     •   announcements regarding the status of any or all of our collaborations or products;     •   market perception and/or investor sentiment regarding our technology;     •   announcements regarding developments in the rna interference or biotechnology fields in general;     •   market perception and/or announcements regarding other companies developing products in the field of rna interference;     •   the issuance of competitive patents or disallowance or loss of our patent rights; and     •   variations in our operating results. we will not have control over many of these factors but expect that they may influence our stock price. as a result, our stock price may be volatile and such volatility could result in the loss of all or part of your investment. additionally, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often initiated securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. if any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. the lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. the market for purchases and sales of our common stock may be very limited, and the sale of a limited number of shares could cause the price to fall sharply. although our common stock is listed for trading on the nasdaq capital market, historically our securities have been relatively thinly traded. investor trading patterns could serve to exacerbate the volatility of the price of the stock. for example, mandatory sales of our common stock by institutional holders could be triggered if an investment in our common stock no longer satisfies their investment standards and guidelines. accordingly, it may be difficult to sell shares of our common stock quickly without significantly depressing the value of the stock. unless we are successful in developing continued investor interest in our stock, sales of our stock could continue to result in major fluctuations in the price of the stock.   24 if securities or industry analysts do not publish research reports about our business or if they make adverse recommendations regarding an investment in our stock, our stock price and trading volume may decline. the trading market for our common stock can be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business. we do not currently have and may never obtain research coverage by industry or securities analysts. investors have many investment opportunities and may limit their investments to companies that receive coverage from analysts. if no industry or securities analysts commence coverage of the company, the trading price of our stock could be negatively impacted. in the event we obtain industry or security analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts downgrade our stock or comment negatively on our prospects, our stock price may decline. if one or more of these analysts cease to cover our industry or us or fails to publish reports about the company regularly, our common stock could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could also cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by the sale of shares by our management or founding stockholders. sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and founding stockholders could adversely and unpredictably affect the price of those securities. additionally, the price of our common stock could be affected even by the potential for sales by these persons. we cannot predict the effect that any future sales of our common stock, or the potential for those sales, will have on our share price. furthermore, due to relatively low trading volume of our stock, should one or more large stockholders seek to sell a significant portion of their stock in a short period of time, the price of our stock may decline. we do not intend to declare cash dividends on our common stock. we will not distribute cash to our stockholders unless and until we can develop sufficient funds from operations to meet our ongoing needs and implement our business plan. the time frame for that is unpredictable and investors should not expect dividends in the near future, if at all. our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of “blank check” preferred stock, which may make an acquisition of the company by another company more difficult. we have adopted and may in the future adopt certain measures that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover or other change in control of the company that a holder of our common stock might consider in its best interest. specifically, our board of directors, without further action by our stockholders, currently has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights (including voting rights), preferences and privileges of these shares (“blank check” preferred). such preferred stock may have rights, including economic rights, senior to our common stock.   item 1b. unresolved