item 1a.    risk factors we make forward-looking statements in this report, in other materials we file with the sec or otherwise release to the public, and on our website. in addition, our senior management might make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, the media and others. statements concerning our future operations, prospects, strategies, products, manufacturing facilities, legal proceedings, financial condition, future financial performance (including growth and earnings) and demand for our products and services, and other statements of our plans, beliefs, or expectations, including the statements contained in item 7, “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations,” regarding industry conditions, currency translation impacts, pricing impacts, the impact of recent acquisitions and marketing initiatives, market demand, farm incomes and economics, commodity supply, weather conditions, government financing programs, general economic conditions, availability of financing, net sales and income, working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements, gross margin improvements, product development, market expansion, payment of remaining acquisition purchase price, compliance with financial covenants, support of lenders, recovery of amounts under guarantee, funding of our postretirement plans and pensions, uncertain income tax provisions, funding of our pension and postretirement benefit plans, conversion features of our notes, or realization of net deferred tax assets, are forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements we make are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to various assumptions, risks, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. these factors include, among others, those set forth below and in the other documents that we file with the sec. there also are other factors that we may not describe, generally because we currently do not perceive them to be material, that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. we expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. our financial results depend entirely upon the agricultural industry, and factors that adversely affect the agricultural industry generally, including declines in the general economy, increases in farm input costs, lower commodity prices and changes in the availability of credit for our retail customers, will adversely affect us. our success depends heavily on the vitality of the agricultural industry. historically, the agricultural industry, including the agricultural equipment business, has been cyclical and subject to a variety of economic factors, governmental regulations and legislation, and weather conditions. sales of agricultural equipment generally are related to the health of the agricultural industry, which is affected by farm income, farm input costs, debt levels and land values, all of which reflect levels of commodity prices, acreage planted, crop yields, agricultural product demand including crops used as renewable energy sources, government policies and government subsidies. sales also are influenced by economic conditions, interest rate and exchange rate levels, and the availability of retail financing. trends in the industry, such as farm consolidations, may affect the agricultural equipment market. in addition, weather conditions, such as floods, heat waves or droughts, and pervasive livestock diseases can affect farmers’ buying decisions. downturns in the agricultural industry due to these or other factors could vary by market and are likely to result in decreases in demand for agricultural equipment, which would adversely affect our sales, growth, results of operations and financial condition. moreover, volatility in demand makes it difficult for us to accurately predict sales and optimize production. this, in turn, can result in higher costs, including inventory carrying costs and underutilized manufacturing capacity. during previous downturns in the farm sector, we experienced significant and prolonged declines in sales and profitability, and we expect our business to remain subject to similar market fluctuations in the future. the agricultural equipment industry is highly seasonal, and seasonal fluctuations significantly impact results of operations and cash flows. the agricultural equipment business is highly seasonal, which causes our quarterly results and our available cash flow to fluctuate during the year. farmers generally purchase agricultural equipment in the spring and fall in conjunction with the major planting and harvesting seasons. in addition, the fourth quarter typically is a significant period for retail sales because of our customers’ year end tax planning considerations, the increase in availability of funds from completed harvests and the timing of dealer incentives. our net sales and income from operations historically have been the lowest in the first quarter and have increased in subsequent quarters as dealers anticipate increased retail sales in subsequent quarters. 9 table of contents most of our sales depend on the retail customers’ obtaining financing, and any disruption in their ability to obtain financing, whether due to the current economic downturn or otherwise, will result in the sale of fewer products by us. in addition, the collectability of receivables that are created from our sales, as well as from such retail financing, is critical to our business. most retail sales of the products that we manufacture are financed, either by our joint ventures with rabobank or by a bank or other private lender. during 2011, our joint ventures with rabobank, which are controlled by rabobank and are dependent upon rabobank for financing as well, financed approximately 50% of the retail sales of our tractors and combines in the markets where the joint ventures operate. any difficulty by rabobank in continuing to provide that financing, or any business decision by rabobank as the controlling member not to fund the business or particular aspects of it (for example, a particular country or region), would require the joint ventures to find other sources of financing (which may be difficult to obtain), or us to find another source of retail financing for our customers, or our customers would be required to utilize other retail financing providers. as a result of the recent economic downturn, financing for capital equipment purchases generally became more difficult in certain regions and, in some cases, was expensive to obtain. to the extent that financing is not available or available only at unattractive prices, our sales would be negatively impacted. in addition, both agco and our retail finance joint ventures have substantial accounts receivable from dealers and retail customers, and we would be adversely impacted if the collectability of these receivables was not consistent with historical experience; this collectability is dependent on the financial strength of the farm industry, which in turn is dependent upon the general economy and commodity prices, as well as several of the other factors discussed in this “risk factors” section. our success depends on the introduction of new products, which requires substantial expenditures. our long-term results depend upon our ability to introduce and market new products successfully. the success of our new products will depend on a number of factors, including: • innovation; • customer acceptance; • the efficiency of our suppliers in providing component parts and of our manufacturing facilities in producing final products; and • the performance and quality of our products relative to those of our competitors. as both we and our competitors continuously introduce new products or refine versions of existing products, we cannot predict the level of market acceptance or the amount of market share our new products will achieve. we have experienced delays in the introduction of new products in the past, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience delays in the future. any delays or problems with our new product launches will adversely affect our operating results. in addition, introducing new products can result in decreases in revenues from our existing products. consistent with our strategy of offering new products and product refinements, we expect to continue to use a substantial amount of capital for product development and refinement. we may need more capital for product development and refinement than is available to us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our expansion plans in emerging markets could entail significant risks. our strategies include establishing a greater manufacturing and marketing presence in emerging markets such as china and russia. in addition, we are growing our use of component suppliers in these markets. if we progress with these strategies, it will involve a significant investment of capital and other resources and entail various risks. these include risks attendant to obtaining necessary governmental approvals and the construction of the facilities in a timely manner and within cost estimates, the establishment of supply channels, the commencement of efficient manufacturing operations and, ultimately, the acceptance of the products by our customers. while we expect the expansion to be successful, should we encounter difficulties involving these or similar factors, it may not be as successful as we anticipate. we face significant competition and, if we are unable to compete successfully against other agricultural equipment manufacturers, we would lose customers and our net sales and profitability would decline. the agricultural equipment business is highly competitive, particularly in north america, europe and south america. we compete with several large national and international companies that, like us, offer a full line of agricultural equipment. we also compete with numerous short-line and specialty manufacturers of agricultural equipment. our two key competitors, deere & company and cnh global n.v., are substantially larger than we are and have greater financial and other resources. in 10 table of contents addition, in some markets, we compete with smaller regional competitors with significant market share in a single country or group of countries. our competitors may substantially increase the resources devoted to the development and marketing, including discounting, of products that compete with our products. in addition, competitive pressures in the agricultural equipment business may affect the market prices of new and used equipment, which, in turn, may adversely affect our sales margins and results of operations. we maintain an independent dealer and distribution network in the markets where we sell products. the financial and operational capabilities of our dealers and distributors are critical to our ability to compete in these markets. in addition, we compete with other manufacturers of agricultural equipment for dealers. if we are unable to compete successfully against other agricultural equipment manufacturers, we could lose dealers and their end customers and our net sales and profitability may decline. rationalization or restructuring of manufacturing facilities, including system upgrades at our manufacturing facilities, may cause production capacity constraints and inventory fluctuations. the rationalization of our manufacturing facilities has at times resulted in, and similar rationalizations or restructurings in the future may result in, temporary constraints upon our ability to produce the quantity of products necessary to fill orders and thereby complete sales in a timely manner. in addition, system upgrades at our manufacturing facilities that impact ordering, production scheduling and other related manufacturing processes are complex, and could impact or delay production targets. a prolonged delay in our ability to fill orders on a timely basis could affect customer demand for our products and increase the size of our product inventories, causing future reductions in our manufacturing schedules and adversely affecting our results of operations. moreover, our continuous development and production of new products will often involve the retooling of existing manufacturing facilities. this retooling may limit our production capacity at certain times in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. in addition the expansion and reconfiguration of existing manufacturing facilities, as well as the start up of new manufacturing operations in emerging markets, such as china and russia, could increase the risk of production delays, as well as require significant investments of capital. we depend on suppliers for components, parts and raw materials for our products, and any failure by our suppliers to provide products as needed, or by us to promptly address supplier issues, will adversely impact our ability to timely and efficiently manufacture and sell products. we also are subject to raw material price fluctuations, which can adversely affect our manufacturing costs. our products include components and parts manufactured by others. as a result, our ability to timely and efficiently manufacture existing products, to introduce new products and to shift manufacturing of products from one facility to another depends on the quality of these components and parts and the timeliness of their delivery to our facilities. at any particular time, we depend on many different suppliers, and the failure by one or more of our suppliers to perform as needed will result in fewer products being manufactured, shipped and sold. if the quality of the components or parts provided by our suppliers is less than required and we do not recognize that failure prior to the shipment of our products, we will incur higher warranty costs. the timely supply of component parts for our products also depends on our ability to manage our relationships with suppliers, to identify and replace suppliers that fail to meet our schedules or quality standards, and to monitor the flow of components and accurately project our needs. the shift from our existing suppliers to new suppliers, including suppliers in emerging markets in the future, also may impact the quality and efficiency of our manufacturing capabilities, as well as impact warranty costs. a significant increase in the price of any component or raw material could adversely affect our profitability. we cannot avoid exposure to global price fluctuations, such as occurred in the past with the costs of steel and related products, and our profitability depends on, among other things, our ability to raise equipment and parts prices sufficiently enough to recover any such material or component cost increases. a majority of our sales and manufacturing take place outside the united states, and, as a result, we are exposed to risks related to foreign laws, taxes, economic conditions, labor supply and relations, political conditions and governmental policies. these risks may delay or reduce our realization of value from our international operations. for the year ended december 31, 2011, we derived approximately $7,409.5 million, or 84%, of our net sales from sales outside the united states. the foreign countries in which we do the most significant amount of business are germany, france, brazil, the united kingdom, finland, and canada. in addition, we have significant manufacturing operations in france, germany, brazil, italy and finland. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by the laws, taxes, economic conditions, labor supply and relations, political conditions, and governmental policies of the foreign countries in which we conduct business. our business practices in these foreign countries must comply with u.s. law, including the foreign corrupt practices act (“fcpa”). we have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential 11 table of contents violations of the fcpa, but we cannot provide assurances that future violations will not occur. if significant violations were to occur, they could subject us to fines and other penalties as well as increased compliance costs. some of our international operations also are subject to various risks that are not present in domestic operations, including restrictions on dividends and the repatriation of funds. foreign developing markets may present special risks, such as unavailability of financing, inflation, slow economic growth, price controls and compliance with u.s. regulations. domestic and foreign political developments and government regulations and policies directly affect the international agricultural industry, which affects the demand for agricultural equipment. if demand for agricultural equipment declines, our sales, growth, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the application, modification or adoption of laws, regulations, trade agreements or policies adversely affecting the agricultural industry, including the imposition of import and export duties and quotas, expropriation and potentially burdensome taxation, could have an adverse effect on our business. the ability of our international customers to operate their businesses and the health of the agricultural industry, in general, are affected by domestic and foreign government programs that provide economic support to farmers. as a result, farm income levels and the ability of farmers to obtain advantageous financing and other protections would be reduced to the extent that any such programs are curtailed or eliminated. any such reductions likely would result in a decrease in demand for agricultural equipment. for example, a decrease or elimination of current price protections for commodities or of subsidy payments for farmers in the european union, the united states, brazil or elsewhere in south america could negatively impact the operations of farmers in those regions, and, as a result, our sales may decline if these farmers delay, reduce or cancel purchases of our products. in emerging markets some of these (and other) risks can be greater than they might be elsewhere. in addition, in some cases, the financing provided by our joint ventures with rabobank or by others is supported by a government subsidy or guarantee. the programs under which those subsidies and guarantees are provided generally are of limited duration and subject to renewal and contain various caps and other limitations. in some markets, for example, brazil, this support is quite significant. in the event the governments that provide this support elect not to renew these programs, and were financing not available, whether through our joint ventures or otherwise, our sales would be negatively impacted. as a result of the multinational nature of our business and the acquisitions that we have made over time, our corporate and tax structures are complex, with a significant portion of our operations being held through foreign holding companies. as a result, it can be inefficient, from a tax perspective, for us to repatriate or otherwise transfer funds, and we may be subject to a greater level of tax-related regulation and reviews by multiple governmental units than would companies with a more simplified structure. in addition, our foreign and u.s. operations routinely sell products to, and license technology to other operations of ours. the pricing of these intra-company transactions is subject to regulation and review as well. while we make every effort to comply with all applicable tax laws, audits and other reviews by governmental units could result in our being required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties. we recently have experienced substantial and sustained volatility with respect to currency exchange rate and interest rate changes which can adversely affect our reported results of operations and the competitiveness of our products. we conduct operations in a variety of currencies.  our production costs, profit margins and competitive position are affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we manufacture or purchase goods relative to the strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. in addition, we are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues and to risks associated with translating the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries from local currencies into united states dollars. similarly, changes in interest rates affect our results of operations by increasing or decreasing borrowing costs and finance income. our most significant transactional foreign currency exposures are the euro, the brazilian real and the canadian dollar in relation to the united states dollar, and the euro in relation to the british pound. where naturally offsetting currency positions do not occur, we attempt to manage these risks by economically hedging some, but not necessarily all, of our exposures through the use of foreign currency forward exchange or option contracts. as with all hedging instruments, there are risks associated with the use of foreign currency forward exchange or option contracts, interest rate swap agreements and other risk management contracts. while the use of such hedging instruments provides us with protection for a finite period of time from certain fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates, we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates. in addition, any default by the counterparties to these transactions could adversely affect us. despite our use of economic hedging transactions, currency exchange rate or interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. we are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations, and our compliance with, or our failure to comply with, existing or future laws and regulations could delay production of our products or otherwise adversely affect our business. we are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. these regulations govern, among other things, emissions into the air, discharges into water, the use, handling and disposal of 12 table of contents hazardous substances, waste disposal and the remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. our costs of complying with these or any other current or future environmental regulations may be significant. for example, the european union and the united states have adopted more stringent environmental regulations regarding emissions into the air, and it is possible that the u.s. congress will pass emissions-related legislation in connection with concerns regarding greenhouse gases. we may be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to our operations under existing laws or those that may be adopted in the future. if we fail to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions, or we may not be able to sell our products and, therefore, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, the products that we manufacture or sell, particularly engines, are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations. as a result, we will likely incur increased engineering expenses and capital expenditures to modify our products to comply with these regulations. further, we may experience production delays if we or our suppliers are unable to design and manufacture components for our products that comply with environmental standards established by regulators. for instance, we are required to meet more stringent emissions requirements both now and in the future, and we expect to meet these requirements through the introduction of new technology to our engines and exhaust after-treatment systems, as necessary. failure to meet such requirements could materially affect our business and results of operations. our labor force is heavily unionized, and our contractual and legal obligations under collective bargaining agreements and labor laws subject us to the risks of work interruption or stoppage and could cause our costs to be higher. most of our employees, most notably at our manufacturing facilities, are subject to collective bargaining agreements and union contracts with terms that expire on varying dates. several of our collective bargaining agreements and union contracts are of limited duration and, therefore, must be re-negotiated frequently. as a result, we incur various administrative expenses associated with union representation of our employees. furthermore, we are at greater risk of work interruptions or stoppages than non-unionized companies, and any work interruption or stoppage could significantly impact the volume of products we have available for sale. in addition, collective bargaining agreements, union contracts and labor laws may impair our ability to reduce our labor costs by streamlining existing manufacturing facilities and in restructuring our business because of limitations on personnel and salary changes and similar restrictions. we have significant pension obligations with respect to our employees and our available cash flow may be adversely affected in the event that payments became due under any pension plans that are unfunded or underfunded. declines in the market value of the securities used to fund these obligations result in increased pension expense in future periods. a portion of our active and retired employees participate in defined benefit pension plans under which we are obligated to provide prescribed levels of benefits regardless of the value of the underlying assets, if any, of the applicable pension plan. to the extent that our obligations under a plan are unfunded or underfunded, we will have to use cash flow from operations and other sources to pay our obligations either as they become due or over some shorter funding period. in addition, since the assets that we already have provided to fund these obligations are invested in debt instruments and other securities, the value of these assets varies due to market factors. recently, these fluctuations have been significant and adverse, and there can be no assurances that they will not be significant in the future. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately $307.9 million in unfunded or underfunded obligations related to our pension and other postretirement health care benefits. our business routinely is subject to claims and legal actions, some of which could be material. we routinely are a party to claims and legal actions incidental to our business. these include claims for personal injuries by users of farm equipment, disputes with distributors, vendors and others with respect to commercial matters, and disputes with taxing and other governmental authorities regarding the conduct of our business. while these matters generally are not material, it is entirely possible that a matter will arise that is material to our business. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, and, as a result, we are subject to certain restrictive covenants and payment obligations that may adversely affect our ability to operate and expand our business. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2011, we had total long-term indebtedness, including current portions of long-term indebtedness of approximately $1,487.7 million, total stockholders’ equity of approximately $3,031.2 million and a ratio of total indebtedness to equity of approximately 0.49 to 1.0. we also had short-term obligations of $224.3 million, capital lease obligations of $4.9 million, unconditional purchase or other long-term obligations of $594.9 million. in addition, we had guaranteed indebtedness owed to third parties and our retail finance joint ventures of approximately $134.6 million, primarily related to dealer and end-user financing of equipment. 13 table of contents holders of our 11/4% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2036 may convert the notes if, during any fiscal quarter, the closing sales price of our common stock exceeds 120% of the conversion price of $40.73 per share for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal quarter. future classification between current and long-term debt of our 1¼% convertible senior subordinated notes depends on the closing sales price of our common stock during future quarters. in the event the notes are converted in the future, we believe we will be able to repay the notes with available cash on hand, funds from our credit facility or a combination of these sources. our substantial indebtedness could have important adverse consequences. for example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restrict us from introducing new products or pursuing business opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less indebtedness; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, pay cash dividends or engage in or enter into certain transactions. our business increasingly is subject to regulations relating to privacy and data protection, and if we violate any of those regulations we could be subject to significant liability. increasingly the united states, the european union and other governmental entities are imposing regulations designed to protect the collection, maintenance and transfer of personal information. other regulations govern the collection and transfer of financial data and data security generally. these regulations generally impose penalties in the event of violations. in addition, we also could be subject to cyber attacks that, if successful, could compromise out information technology systems and our ability to conduct business. in addition, our business relies on the internet as well as other electronic communications systems that, by their nature, may be subject to efforts by so-call "hacker" to either disrupt our business or steal data or funds. while we strive to maintain customary protections against hackers, there can be no assurance that at some point a hacker will breach those safeguards and damage our business, possibly materially. we may encounter difficulties in integrating gsi into our business and may not fully achieve, or achieve within a reasonable time frame, expected strategic objectives and other expected benefits of the acquisition. we expect to realize strategic and other benefits as a result of our acquisition of gsi, including, among other things, the opportunity to extend our reach in the agricultural industry and provide our customers with an even wider range of products and services, including grain storage and protein production systems. however, it is impossible to predict with certainty whether, or to what extent, these benefits will be realized or whether we will be able to integrate gsi in a timely and effective manner. in addition: • the costs of integrating gsi and its operations may be higher than we expect and may require significant attention from our management; and • our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy for gsi will be affected by, among other things, our ability to maintain and enhance our relationships with existing gsi customers, our ability to provide additional product distribution opportunities to gsi through our existing distribution channels, changes in the spending patterns and preferences of customers and potential customers, fluctuating economic and competitive conditions and our ability to retain key gsi personnel. in addition, gsi is subject to regulations, demands and risks that differ in some ways to our traditional business. as a result, we may be unable to achieve the same growth, sales levels and profitability as gsi has in the past. our ability to address these issues will determine the extent to which we are able to successfully integrate, develop and grow the gsi business and to realize the expected benefits of the transaction. our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial condition following the transaction. 14 table of contents item 1b.    unresolved