item 1a.   risk factors   risks related to our business and industry   a significant portion of our revenues has been derived from a single customer and as of march 31, 2011 that customer has stopped accepting scheduled deliveries and refused to pay amounts outstanding as of that date. the disruption in our relationship with sinovel has materially and adversely affected our business and results of operations and if, as we expect, sinovel continues to refuse to accept shipments from us, our business and results of operations will be further materially and adversely affected.   sinovel wind group co., ltd. (“sinovel”) has been our largest customer, accounting for 68% of our total revenue for fiscal 2010, 70% of our total revenue for fiscal 2009 and 67% of our total revenue for fiscal 2008. we derived our revenues from sinovel from the sale of core electrical components as well as development contracts for the design of wind turbines. we had approximately $62.0 million of receivables (excluding value added tax), some aged over six months, outstanding as of march 31, 2011 from sinovel. of this amount, approximately $56 million was due to amsc china. the last payment received from sinovel was in early march 2011. on march 31, 2011, sinovel informed us that they would not accept scheduled shipments, which had a potential revenue value of approximately $65.2 million, nor pay amounts outstanding as of that date.   while we have had several discussions with sinovel since march 31, 2011, as of the date of this filing, we have not received payment for any outstanding receivables nor have we been notified as to when, if ever, they will accept contracted shipments that were scheduled for delivery after march 31, 2011. additionally, based in part upon evidence obtained through an internal investigation and a criminal investigation by austrian authorities regarding the actions of a former employee of our amsc windtec subsidiary, we believe that sinovel illegally obtained and used our intellectual property in violation of civil and criminal intellectual property laws. on september 13, 2011, we commenced a series of legal actions in china against sinovel. we filed a claim for arbitration in beijing, china to compel sinovel to pay us for past product shipments and to accept all contracted but not yet delivered core electrical components and spare parts under all existing contracts with us. the arbitration claim was filed with the beijing arbitration commission in accordance with the terms of our supply contracts with sinovel. in addition, we are in the process of filing civil and criminal complaints in china against sinovel and on september 16, 2011, we filed a civil complaint against other parties, including dalian guotong electric co., ltd. the complaints allege the illegal use of our intellectual property. we are seeking to compel sinovel and the other parties to cease and desist from infringing our intellectual property and are also seeking monetary damages to compensate us for our economic losses resulting from the infringement. we cannot provide any assurance as to the outcome of these legal actions. we intend to manage our business going forward assuming that sinovel is no longer a customer. for more information about these legal proceedings, see part i, item 3, “legal proceedings.”   we cannot be certain when, if ever, our dispute with sinovel will be resolved in a manner that would be acceptable to sinovel and us or if sinovel will resume accepting shipments or make any payments to us, if at all. the disruption in our relationship with sinovel has materially and adversely affected our business and results of operations and if, as we expect, sinovel continues to refuse to accept shipments from us, our business and results of operations will be further materially and adversely affected. because sinovel has accounted for more than two-thirds of our revenues over each of the past three fiscal years, it will be difficult to replace the related revenues in the foreseeable future, if we are able to replace the revenues at all. as a result, in future periods, we may have significantly lower revenues, we may generate significant operating losses and negative cash flows from operations and the price of our common stock may decline significantly, all of which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. we cannot be certain what additional impact there will be on our customers, sub-contractors, suppliers and partners in china as a result of the disruption in our relationship with sinovel.   we will require significant additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate planned activities, including the planned acquisition of the switch engineering oy.   as of june 30, 2011, we had approximately $166.2 million of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash. we will need additional capital in order to complete the planned acquisition of the switch engineering oy (“the switch”) and fund our working capital, capital expenditures and other cash requirements. 12 table of contents any financing for such purpose may occur through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or other financing alternatives. shareholders may suffer additional dilution if we raise capital through a sale of equity. if we raise additional capital through debt financing, earnings per share will be negatively impacted due to additional interest expense. additional equity or debt financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. in addition, debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. if we are unsuccessful in raising additional funds, we may be required to delay, reduce or eliminate plans or programs relating to our business. we may also be unable or unwilling to consummate the planned acquisition of the switch, which could subject us to liability. our obligation to consummate the planned acquisition of the switch is subject to the condition that we have secured sufficient financing to consummate the planned acquisition of the switch and leave us with $100 million for working capital. if we fail to raise sufficient additional funds and terminate the purchase agreement for the planned acquisition of the switch, we will likely forfeit the $20.6 million cash advance payment we paid to the shareholders of the switch on june 29, 2011. in the event we fail to consummate the planned acquisition of the switch, the price of our common stock may decline.   we have a history of operating losses, and we may incur additional losses in the future. our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may fall below expectations in any particular fiscal quarter.   while we achieved profitable results in fiscal 2009, we recorded a net loss in fiscal 2010 and we are unlikely to be profitable in fiscal 2011 given the disruption in our relationship with sinovel. we cannot be certain that we will regain profitability in fiscal 2012 or thereafter. we incurred net losses in each year since our inception through fiscal 2008, driven primarily by the research and development activities in what was formerly our amsc superconductors business segment.   there is currently substantial uncertainty in our business, particularly as it relates to our relationship with sinovel, our ability to raise additional funds and complete the planned acquisition of the switch, and our restatement of our financial statements for the second and third quarters of fiscal 2010. all of these factors make it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. in addition, our operating results historically have been difficult to predict and have at times fluctuated from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. as a result of all of these factors, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. if our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts that follow our company in any period, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline.   our operating expenses do not always vary directly with revenue and may be difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our expectations, we may not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a revenue shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our operating results for that quarter.   if we fail to complete the planned acquisition of the switch, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed and the price of our common stock could decline.   on march 12, 2011, we entered into a share purchase agreement with the shareholders of the switch, which we amended on june 29, 2011. we cannot assure you that the closing conditions for the completion of the planned acquisition of the switch will be satisfied or waived. in connection with closing the planned acquisition of the switch, we will be subject to several risks, including the following:     •  the occurrence of any effect, event, development or change that could give rise to the termination of the share purchase agreement;     •  the inability to complete the planned acquisition of the switch due to the failure to satisfy closing conditions; and     •  our failure to obtain the necessary financing arrangements required to complete the planned acquisition of the switch, and the amount of the costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the actual terms of any such financing. 13 table of contents   if we fail to complete the planned acquisition of the switch, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed and the price of our common stock could decline.   completion of the planned acquisition of the switch could present certain risks.   if we consummate the acquisition of the switch, we will be subject to several risks, including the following:     •  revenues of the switch are highly dependent on one customer, goldwind science & technology co., ltd., which represented approximately 87% of the total revenue of the switch for the year ended december 31, 2010;     •  substantially all of the revenues of the switch are derived from customers located in china, which customers represented approximately 93% of the total revenue of the switch for the year ended december 31, 2010;     •  if we incur debt to finance the planned acquisition of the switch, we will be required to make significant interest and principal payments to service the indebtedness;     •  mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenue and costs, including synergies;     •  the risk that the switch’s current plans and operations will be disrupted, which may make it difficult to retain its employees; and     •  the risk that we will not be able to effectively integrate the operations of the switch and, as a result, we may not realize the synergies from the planned acquisition of the switch that we planned.   furthermore, the planned acquisition of the switch could expose us to additional unknown and contingent liabilities. we have performed a certain level of diligence in connection with the planned acquisition of the switch and have attempted to verify the representations made by the switch, but there may be unknown and contingent liabilities related to the switch of which we are unaware.   there is a risk that we could ultimately be liable for unknown obligations relating to the switch for which indemnification is not available. in addition, any disruption arising from the planned acquisition of the switch may make it more difficult for us to maintain relationships with our customers, employees or suppliers.   finally, the planned acquisition of the switch may not be accretive to our earnings and may negatively impact our results of operations as a result of, among other things, the incurrence of debt, write-offs of goodwill and amortization expenses of other intangible assets.   any of these events could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition and could lower the price of our common stock.   adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results.   we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. the state of both the domestic and global economies is uncertain due to the difficulty in obtaining credit, weak economic recovery, and financial market volatility. if credit continues to be difficult to obtain, some customers may delay or reduce purchases. this could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies, increased accounts receivable and inventory write-offs and increased price competition. any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.   changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our results from operations.   currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations, and we could experience losses with respect to hedging activities. in fiscal 2010, 93% of our revenues were recognized from sales outside the united states. unfavorable currency fluctuations could require us to increase prices to foreign customers, which could result in lower revenues from such customers. alternatively, if we do not adjust the prices for our products in response to unfavorable currency fluctuations, our results of operations could be 14 table of contents adversely affected. in addition, most sales made by our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in the currency of the country in which these products are sold, and the currency they receive in payment for such sales could be less valuable at the time of receipt as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. from time to time, we enter into derivative instruments, including forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options to reduce currency exposure arising from intercompany sales of inventory and exposures arising from the sale of products denominated in one currency while costs are denominated in another. however, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be adequate to protect us against significant currency fluctuations or that such efforts will not expose us to additional exchange rate risks.   we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and if we fail to remediate these weaknesses and maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and may lead investors and other users to lose confidence in our financial data.   maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial statements. in evaluating the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of march 31, 2011, management concluded that there were material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting related to our revenues and accounts receivable balances as fees were not fixed or determinable or collectability was not reasonably assured at the time revenue was recognized, and outstanding accounts receivable balances were uncollectable. the specific material weaknesses are:     •  we did not maintain adequately designed controls to ensure accurate recognition of revenue in accordance with gaap. specifically, controls were not effective to ensure that deviations from contractually established payment terms were identified, communicated and authorized;     •  we did not maintain adequate controls to ensure proper monitoring and evaluation of customer creditworthiness, including the collectability of amounts due from customers and appropriate revenue recognition;     •  we did not maintain a sufficient complement of personnel involved with business in our foreign locations with the appropriate level of knowledge, experience and training in the application of gaap to ensure revenue transactions were appropriately reflected in the financial statements based on the terms and conditions of the sales contracts; and     •  we did not establish and maintain, procedures to ensure proper oversight and review, by senior management, of customer relationships to ensure appropriate communication of relevant considerations to determine accounting judgments with respect to revenue recognition.   the errors related to control deficiencies led the audit committee of our board of directors to conclude that the financial statements contained in our quarterly reports on form 10-q for the fiscal quarters ended september 30, 2010 and december 31, 2010 should no longer be relied upon. specifically, we determined that at the time of certain product shipments to certain of our customers in china during the second and third quarters of the fiscal year ended march 31, 2011, the fees related to the shipments in some cases were not fixed or determinable or collectability was not reasonably assured. as a result, we restated our financial statements for the fiscal quarters ended september 30, 2010 and december 31, 2010 and were delayed in filing our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2011 and our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended june 30, 2011.   although our restated financial statements have been filed with the sec, we are in the process of remediating the material weaknesses identified above by, among other things, establishing formal, written policies and procedures governing the customer credit process, improving procedures to ensure the proper review and documentation of customer creditworthiness, establishing a new worldwide revenue manager position in finance with gaap experience to ensure accuracy of revenue recognition, improving procedures to ensure the proper communication, approval and accounting review of deviations from sales contracts and providing additional and on-going training to product managers and others involved in negotiating contractual arrangements and accounting for revenue transactions, in order to heighten awareness of revenue recognition concepts under gaap. we do not know the specific time frame needed to fully remediate the material weaknesses identified. if we fail to 15 table of contents remediate these material weaknesses or fail to otherwise maintain effective controls over financial reporting in the future, we might not be able to prevent or detect on a timely basis a material misstatement of our financial statements, which could cause investors and other users to lose confidence in our financial data.   if we fail to implement our business strategy successfully, our financial performance could be harmed.   our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. our business strategy envisions several initiatives, including driving revenue growth and enhancing operating results by increasing customer adoption of our products by targeting high-growth segments with commercial products, pursuing overseas markets, anticipating customer needs in the development of system-level solutions, strengthening our technology leadership while lowering cost and pursuing targeted strategic acquisitions and alliances such as the planned acquisition of the switch. we may not be able to implement our business strategy successfully or achieve the anticipated benefits of our business plan. if we are unable to do so, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business plan successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. our ability to address the disruption in our relationship with sinovel or implement our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions or increased operating costs or expenses. in addition, to the extent we have misjudged the nature and extent of industry trends or our competition, we may have difficulty in achieving our strategic objectives. any failure to implement our business strategy successfully may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time.   this risk is magnified by the current substantial uncertainty in our business, particularly as it relates to the pending arbitration and civil and potential criminal proceedings with sinovel, our ability to raise additional funds and close the planned acquisition of the switch, the remediation of the material weaknesses identified in our internal controls and our recent restatement of our financial statements, all of which is diverting management’s attention from operating our business. management has and is continuing to invest considerable time addressing these issues, which has been a substantial diversion of management’s time and attention and could lead to disruptions in operations and delay in the implementation of our strategy, all of which could negatively impact our business and results of operations.   we may not realize all of the sales expected from our backlog of orders and contracts.   although we have generally reported significant backlog, we cannot assure you that we will realize the revenue we expect to generate from this backlog in the periods we expect to realize such revenue, or at all. for example, on march 31, 2011, sinovel refused to accept contracted shipments of 1.5 mw and 3 mw wind turbine core electrical components and spare parts that we were prepared to deliver. we have outstanding payments due from sinovel for products and services delivered, not including value added taxes, of $62.0 million which have not yet been reported as revenue or accounts receivable. we have initiated arbitration and civil proceedings against sinovel and we have submitted evidence of criminal acts by sinovel to the chinese authorities in order to initiate criminal proceedings. as a result, sinovel may not accept any further shipments or pay for any past shipments. for more information about these legal proceedings, see part i, item 3, “legal proceedings.”   in addition, the backlog of orders, if realized, may not result in profitable revenue. backlog represents the value of contracts and purchase orders received, less the revenue recognized to date on those contracts and purchase orders. our customers have the right under some circumstances and with some penalties or consequences to terminate, reduce or defer firm orders that we have in backlog. in addition, our government contracts are subject to the risks described below. if our customers terminate, reduce or defer firm orders, we may be protected from certain costs and losses, but our sales will nevertheless be adversely affected and we may not generate the revenue we expect.   although we strive to maintain ongoing relationships with our customers, there is an ongoing risk that they may cancel orders or reschedule orders due to fluctuations in their business needs or purchasing budgets. 16 table of contents many of our revenue opportunities are dependent upon subcontractors and other business collaborators.   many of the revenue opportunities for our business involve projects, such as the installation of superconductor cables in power grids and electrical system hardware in wind turbines, in which we collaborate with other companies, including suppliers of cryogenic systems, manufacturers of electric power cables and manufacturers of wind turbines. as a result, most of our current and planned revenue-generating projects involve business collaborators on whose performance our revenue is dependent. if these business partners fail to deliver their products or perform their obligations on a timely basis or fail to generate sufficient demand for the systems they manufacture, our revenue from the project may be delayed or decreased, and we may not be successful in selling our products.   our products face intense competition, which could limit our ability to acquire or retain customers.   the markets for our products are intensely competitive and many of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources, research and development, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. in addition, as our target markets develop, other large industrial companies may enter these fields and compete with us.   our wind business faces competition for the supply of wind turbine engineering design services from design engineering firms such as garrad hassan, and from licensors of wind turbine systems such as aerodyn, aventisenergy and fuhrlander.   our wind business also faces competition from companies offering power electronic converters for use in applications for which we expect to sell our powermodule products. these companies include abb, inverpower, satcon, semikron and xantrex (a subsidiary of schneider electric).   finally, our wind business faces competition from companies offering wind turbine electrical system components, including abb, converteam, guotong electric, ingeteam, mita-teknik, woodward and xantrex. we also face indirect competition in the wind energy market from manufacturers of wind energy systems, such as gamesa, general electric, suzlon and vestas.   our grid business faces competition from companies offering facts systems similar to our d-var and svc solutions. these include svcs from abb, alstrom, areva, mitsubishi electric and siemens; adaptive var compensators and statcoms produced by s&c electric; dynamic voltage restorers (“dvrs”) produced by companies such as abb and s&c electric; and flywheels and battery-based ups systems offered by various companies around the world.   our grid business also faces competition both from vendors of traditional wires made from materials such as copper and from companies who are developing hts wires.   finally, our grid business faces competition for our amperium wire from a number of companies in the united states and abroad who are developing 2g hts wire technology. these include innova, metox, superconductor technologies and superpower (a subsidiary of royal philips electronics) in the united states; fujikura, furukawa, showa and sumitomo in japan; sunam in south korea; and bruker, evico gmbh and nexans in europe. certain companies, including evico gmbh, furukawa, nexans, showa and sumitomo electric, have been focusing their research programs more recently on the development of 2g hts wire made by the same or similar processes we have chosen to use to manufacture our amperium wire.   as the hts wire, superconductor electric motors and generators, and power electronic systems markets develop, other large industrial companies may enter those fields and compete with us. if we are unable to compete successfully, it may harm our business, which in turn may limit our ability to acquire or retain customers.   our success is dependent upon attracting and retaining qualified personnel and our inability to do so could significantly damage our business and prospects.   we have attracted a highly skilled management team and specialized workforce, including scientists, engineers, researchers, manufacturing, marketing and sales professionals. if we were to lose the services of any of our executive officers or key employees, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. 17 table of contents hiring and retaining good personnel for our business is challenging, and highly qualified technical personnel are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future despite current economic conditions and high unemployment levels. we may not be able to hire the necessary personnel to implement our business strategy, or we may need to provide higher compensation or more training to our personnel than we currently anticipate. moreover, any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time.   from april 1, 2011 through the date of this filing, including the restructuring plan we announced in august 2011, we have reduced our global workforce by approximately 30% in order to reorganize our global operations, streamline various functions of the business, and reduce our global workforce to match the demand for our products. employee retention may be a particularly challenging issue following reductions in workforce and organizational changes since we also must continue to motivate employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals, which may be particularly difficult. if we lose the services of any key personnel, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   we may acquire additional complementary businesses or technologies, which may require us to incur substantial costs for which we may never realize the anticipated benefits.   our prior acquisitions required substantial integration and management efforts and we expect the planned acquisition of the switch to require similar efforts. as a result of any acquisition we pursue, management’s attention and resources may be diverted from our other businesses. an acquisition may also involve the payment of a significant purchase price, which could reduce our cash position or dilute our stockholders, and require significant transaction-related expenses.   achieving the benefits of any acquisition involves additional risks, including:     •  difficulty assimilating acquired operations, technologies and personnel;     •  inability to retain management and other key personnel of the acquired business;     •  changes in management or other key personnel that may harm relationships with the acquired business’s customers and employees;     •  unforeseen liabilities of the acquired business;     •  diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business matters as a result of the integration process;     •  mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenue and costs, including synergies;     •  limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller;     •  mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt used to finance the acquisition; and     •  unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas, with new customers, or in new geographic areas.   we cannot assure you that we will realize any of the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, including without limitation, the planned acquisition of the switch, and if we fail to realize these anticipated benefits, our operating performance could suffer.   our international operations are subject to risks that we do not face in the united states, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results.   in recent years, a substantial majority of our consolidated revenues were recognized from customers outside of the united states. for example, 93% of our revenues in fiscal 2010 and 87% of our revenues in fiscal 2009 were recognized from sales outside the united states. our international operations are subject to a variety of risks that we do not face in the united states, including:     •  potentially longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, particularly from customers in china; 18 table of contents     •  difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations;     •  additional withholding taxes or other taxes on our foreign income and repatriated cash, and tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including export duties and quotas, trade and employment restrictions;     •  imposition of, or unexpected adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements;     •  increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk;     •  reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and     •  political unrest, war or acts of terrorism.   our overall success in international markets depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. we may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies that will be effective in managing these risks in each country where we do business or conduct operations. our failure to manage these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, thus lowering our total revenue and reducing or eliminating our profits.   we depend on sales to customers in china, and global conditions could negatively affect our operating results or limit our ability to expand our operations outside of china. changes in china’s political, social, regulatory and economic environment may affect our financial performance.   a significant portion of our total revenues has been derived from customers in china and, in particular, from sinovel. with respect to china, our financial performance may be affected by changes in china’s political, social, regulatory and economic environment. for example, new grid standards are being proposed in china to include a requirement for low-voltage ride through (“lvrt”) capability in wind turbines. until these standards are finalized, the chinese wind market will be subject to substantial uncertainty, which may cause our customers to delay or cancel orders.   the role of the chinese central and local governments in the chinese economy is significant. for example, the economy of the people’s republic of china differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the:     •  higher level of government involvement;     •  early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy;     •  rapid growth rate;     •  higher level of control over foreign exchange; and     •  government influence over the allocation of resources.   chinese policies toward economic liberalization, and laws and policies affecting foreign companies, currency exchange rates and other matters could change, resulting in greater restrictions on our ability to do business in china. any imposition of surcharges or any increase in chinese tax rates could hurt our operating results. the chinese government could revoke, terminate or suspend our license for national security and similar reasons without compensation to us. if the government of china were to take any of these actions, we would be prevented from conducting all or part of our business. any failure on our part to comply with governmental regulations could result in the loss of our ability to market our products in china.   further, we may be impacted by issues with managing foreign sales operations including long payment cycles, potential difficulties in accounts receivable collection and, especially from significant customers, fluctuations in the timing and amount of orders and the adverse effect of any of these issues on our business could be increased due to the concentration of our business with a small number of customers. the chinese government is currently restricting lending from banks to companies in china as a means to fight inflation, resulting in a limitation of access to credit. in addition, we believe that many of our customers in china have high levels of inventory and high 19 table of contents accounts payable balances. problems with collections from, or sales to, any one of those customers could reduce our revenue and harm our financial performance. we intend to mitigate the accounts receivable collection risk in the future by requiring our customers in china either to pay us in cash upon shipment or provide us with a letter of credit or bank guarantee to support their orders from us. however, we might not be successful in these efforts. if these arrangements are not acceptable to our customers, we may lose customers and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. operations in foreign countries including china also expose us to risks relating to difficulties in enforcing our proprietary rights, currency fluctuations and adverse or deteriorating economic conditions. if we experience problems with obtaining registrations, compliance with foreign country or applicable u.s. laws, or if we experience difficulties in payments or intellectual property matters in foreign jurisdictions, or if significant political, economic or regulatory changes occur, our results of operations would be adversely affected.   many of our customer relationships outside of the united states are, either directly or indirectly, with governmental entities, and we could be adversely affected by violations of the united states foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws outside the united states.   the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. many of our customer relationships outside of the united states are, either directly or indirectly, with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   we rely upon third party suppliers for the components and subassemblies of many of our wind and grid products, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations, which could harm our business.   many of our components and subassemblies are currently manufactured for us by a limited number of suppliers. any interruption in the supply of components or subassemblies, or our inability to obtain substitute components or subassemblies from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.   we are producing certain wind products in our manufacturing facility in china. in order to minimize costs and time to market, we have and will continue to identify local suppliers that meet our quality standards to produce certain of our subassemblies and components. these efforts may not be successful. in addition, any event which negatively impacts our supply, including, among others, wars, terrorist activities, natural disasters and outbreaks of infectious disease, could delay or suspend shipments of products or the release of new products or could result in the delivery of inferior products. our revenues from the affected products would decline or we could incur losses until such time as we are able to restore our production processes or put in place alternative contract manufacturers or suppliers. even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies.   we are becoming increasingly reliant on contracts that require the issuance of performance bonds.   while we have been required to provide performance bonds in the form of surety bonds or other forms of security in the past, the size of the bonds was not material. in recent years, we have entered into contracts that require us to post bonds of significant magnitude. in some instances, we may be required to deposit cash in escrow accounts as collateral for these instruments, which is unavailable to us for general use for significant periods of time. should we be unable to obtain performance bonds in the future, significant future potential revenue could become 20 table of contents unavailable to us. further, should our working capital situation deteriorate, we would not be able to access the escrowed cash to meet working capital requirements.   problems with product quality or product performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses and may damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share.   consistent with customary practice in our industry, we warrant our products and/or services to be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and service. we generally provide a one to three year warranty on our products, commencing upon installation. a provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenues for estimated warranty expense based on historical experience. the possibility of future product failures or issues related to services we provided could cause us to incur substantial expenses to repair or replace defective products or re-perform such services. furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and reduce our market share and cause sales to decline.   our success in addressing the wind energy market is dependent on the manufacturers that license our designs.   because an important element of our strategy for addressing the wind energy market involves the license of our wind turbine designs to manufacturers of those systems, the financial benefits to us from our products for the wind energy market are dependent on the success of these manufacturers in selling wind turbines based on our designs. we may not be able to enter into marketing or distribution arrangements with third parties on financially acceptable terms, or at all, and third parties may not be successful in selling our products or applications incorporating our products.   growth of the wind energy market depends largely on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives.   at present, the cost of wind energy exceeds the cost of conventional power generation in many locations around the world. various governments have used different policy initiatives to encourage or accelerate the development and adoption of wind energy and other renewable energy sources. renewable energy policies are in place in the european union, certain countries in asia, including china, japan and south korea, and many of the states in australia and the united states. examples of government- sponsored financial incentives include capital cost rebates, feed-in tariffs, tax credits, net metering and other incentives to end-users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of wind energy products to promote the use of wind energy and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. governments may decide to reduce or eliminate these economic incentives for political, financial or other reasons. reductions in, or eliminations of, government subsidies and economic incentives before the wind energy industry reaches a sufficient scale to be cost-effective in a non-subsidized marketplace could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations.   there are a number of technological challenges that must be successfully addressed before our superconductor products can gain widespread commercial acceptance, and our inability to address such technological challenges could adversely affect our ability to acquire customers for our products.   many of our superconductor products are in the early stages of commercialization, while others are still under development. there are a number of technological challenges that we must successfully address to complete our development and commercialization efforts for superconductor products. we also believe that several years of further demonstration in the cable, fault current limiter and motor industries may be necessary before a substantial commercial market could develop. we will also need to improve the performance and reduce the cost of our amperium wire to expand the number of commercial applications for it. we may be unable to meet such technological challenges or to sufficiently improve the performance and reduce the costs of our amperium wire. delays in development, as a result of technological challenges or other factors, may result in the introduction or commercial acceptance of our superconductor products later than anticipated. 21 table of contents we have not manufactured our amperium wire in commercial quantities, and a failure to manufacture our amperium wire in commercial quantities at acceptable cost and quality levels would substantially limit our future revenue and profit potential.   we are developing commercial-scale manufacturing processes for our amperium wire, which are very different from our 1g hts wire manufacturing processes and are complex and challenging. in november 2007, we started initial production of our amperium wire on a new manufacturing line that was designed for an annual capacity of 720,000 meters. however, in order to be able to offer our wire at pricing that we believe will be commercially competitive, we estimate that we will need to increase such capacity to millions of meters annually. we may not be able to manufacture satisfactory commercial quantities of amperium wire of consistent quality with an acceptable yield and cost. failure to successfully scale up manufacturing of our amperium wire would result in a significant limitation of our ability to achieve broad market acceptance of our hts products and of our future revenue and profit potential.   the commercial uses of superconductor products are limited today, and a widespread commercial market for our products may not develop.   to date, there has been no widespread commercial use of hts products. even if the technological hurdles currently limiting commercial uses of hts products are overcome, it is uncertain whether a robust commercial market for those new and unproven products will ever develop. to date, many projects to install superconductor cables and products in power grids have been funded or subsidized by the governmental authorities. if this funding is curtailed, grid operators may not continue to use superconductor cables and products in their projects.   in addition, we believe in-grid demonstrations of superconductor power cables are necessary to convince utilities and power grid operators of the benefits of this technology. even if a project is funded, completion of projects can be delayed as a result of other factors. for example, a delay in the completion of the development and deployment of our faultblocker technology in manhattan occurred due to a delay in construction by consolidated edison of a substation to which the cable system would be connected to.   it is possible that the market demands we currently anticipate for our amperium products will not develop and that they will never achieve widespread commercial acceptance. in such event, we would not be able to implement our strategy, and our profits could be reduced or eliminated.   we have limited experience in marketing and selling our superconductor products and system-level solutions, and our failure to effectively market and sell our products and solutions could lower our revenue and cash flow.   to date, we have limited experience marketing and selling our superconductor products and system-level solutions, and there are few people who have significant experience marketing or selling superconductor products and system-level solutions. once our products and solutions are ready for widespread commercial use, we will have to develop a marketing and sales organization that will effectively demonstrate the advantages of our products over both more traditional products and competing superconductor products or other technologies. we may not be successful in our efforts to market this new technology, and we may not be able to establish an effective sales and distribution organization.   we may decide to enter into arrangements with third parties for the marketing or distribution of our products, including arrangements in which our products, such as amperium wire, are included as a component of a larger product, such as a power cable system or a wind turbine generator. by entering into marketing and sales alliances, the financial benefits to us of commercializing our products are dependent on the efforts of others. 22 table of contents our contracts with the u.s. government are subject to audit, modification or termination by the u.s. government and include certain other provisions in favor of the government. the continued funding of such contracts remains subject to annual congressional appropriation which, if not approved, could reduce our revenue and lower or eliminate our profit.   as a company that contracts with the u.s. government, we are subject to financial audits and other reviews by the u.s. government of our costs and performance, accounting and general business practices relating to these contracts. based on the results of these audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees. we cannot be certain that adjustments arising from government audits and reviews would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.   our u.s. government contracts customarily contain other provisions that give the government substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions that allow the government to:     •  obtain certain rights to the intellectual property that we develop under the contract;     •  decline to award future contracts if actual or apparent organizational conflicts of interest are discovered, or to impose organizational conflict mitigation measures as a condition of eligibility for an award;     •  suspend or debar us from doing business with the government or a specific government agency; and     •  pursue criminal or civil remedies under the false claims act, false statements act and similar remedy provisions unique to government contracting.   all of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government for its convenience. termination-for-convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, and for settlement of expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination. in addition to the right of the u.s. government to terminate its contracts with us, u.s. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing approval by the u.s. congress of the necessary spending to honor such contracts. congress often appropriates funds for a program on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. consequently, at the beginning of many major governmental programs, contracts often may not be fully funded, and additional monies are then committed to the contract only if, as and when appropriations are made by the u.s. congress for future fiscal years. we cannot be certain that our u.s. government contracts will not be terminated or suspended in the future. the u.s. government’s termination of, or failure to fully fund, one or more of our contracts would have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. further, in the event that any of our government contracts are terminated for cause, it could affect our ability to obtain future government contracts which could, in turn, seriously harm our ability to develop our technologies and products.   risks related to our intellectual property and legal matters   we may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information.   we rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. however, trade secrets are difficult to protect. we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, contractors, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. these agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. in addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets or independently develop processes or products that are similar or identical to our trade secrets, and courts outside the united states may be less willing to protect trade secrets. costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.   for example, based in part upon evidence obtained through an internal investigation and a criminal investigation conducted by austrian authorities regarding the actions of a former employee of our amsc windtec subsidiary, we believe that sinovel illegally obtained and used our intellectual property in violation of civil and criminal intellectual property laws. in july 2011, the former employee was arrested in austria and is 23 table of contents currently awaiting trial on charges of economic espionage and fraudulent manipulation of data. on september 13, 2011, we commenced a series of legal actions in china against sinovel and other parties alleging the illegal use of our intellectual property. we cannot provide any assurance as to the outcome of these legal actions. this or future litigation with sinovel could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. in addition, such proceedings may make it more difficult to finance our operations. if we are unsuccessful in this litigation and fail to maintain adequate protection of this intellectual property, our competitive business position would be adversely affected. for more information about these legal proceedings, see part i, item 3, “legal proceedings.”   we have filed a demand for arbitration and other lawsuits against our former largest customer, sinovel, regarding amounts we contend are due and owing and are in dispute. we cannot be certain as to the outcome of these proceedings.   on march 31, 2011, sinovel refused to accept contracted scheduled shipments with a revenue value of approximately $65.2 million. in addition, as of march 31, 2011, we had approximately $62.0 million of receivables (excluding value added tax) outstanding from sinovel. we have not received payment from sinovel for these outstanding receivables that are now past due, nor have we been notified as to when, if ever, they will accept contracted shipments that were scheduled for delivery after march 31, 2011. no payment has been received from sinovel since early march 2011. because sinovel did not give us notice that it intended to delay deliveries as required under the contracts, we believe that these actions constitute material breaches of our contracts. additionally, we believe that sinovel illegally obtained and used our intellectual property in violation of civil and criminal intellectual property laws.   on september 13, 2011, we filed a claim for arbitration against sinovel in beijing, china to compel sinovel to pay us for past product shipments and to accept all contracted but not yet delivered core electrical components and spare parts under all existing contracts with us. in addition, we have filed or are in the process of filing civil and criminal complaints in china against sinovel alleging the illegal use of our intellectual property. for more information about these legal proceedings, see part i, item 3, “legal proceedings.”   we cannot provide any assurance as to the outcome of these legal actions or that, if we prevail, we ultimately will be able to collect any amounts awarded. sinovel may bring claims against us alleging that our conduct has damaged it. as the legal proceedings continue, we and sinovel may identify additional amounts in dispute. these legal proceedings could result in the incurrence of significant legal and related expenses, which may not be recoverable depending on the outcome of the litigation. an award by the arbitration panel or court in favor of sinovel and/or the incurrence of significant legal fees which are not recoverable could adversely impact our operating results.   we have been named as a party to purported stockholder class actions and stockholder derivative complaints, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which will require significant management time and attention, result in significant legal expenses and may result in an unfavorable outcome, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.   a number of purported class action lawsuits have been filed against us on behalf of certain purchasers of our common stock. the complaints generally include allegations that we violated federal securities laws by, among other things, knowingly making materially false and misleading statements and omitting important facts regarding our dealings with sinovel, thereby artificially inflating the price of our common stock. the complaints seek monetary damages, costs, attorney’s fees and other equitable and injunctive relief. securities class action suits and derivative suits are often brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. in addition, stockholder derivative actions have been initiated against us and certain of our directors and officers. these complaints purport to seek relief on behalf of the company to remedy alleged breaches of fiduciary duty and other misconduct by the defendants.   we intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously. we cannot assure you, however, that we will be successful. also, our insurance coverage may be insufficient, our assets may be insufficient to cover any amounts that exceed 24 table of contents our insurance coverage, and we may have to pay damage awards or otherwise may enter into settlement arrangements in connection with such claims. any such payments or settlement arrangements in this current litigation or any future litigation could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition. even if the plaintiffs’ claims are not successful, this or future litigation could result in substantial costs and significantly and adversely impact our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. in addition, such lawsuits may make it more difficult to finance our operations.   our technology and products could infringe intellectual property rights of others, which may require costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages and disrupt our business.   in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in many technology-related industries. there may be patents or patent applications in the united states or other countries that are pertinent to our products or business of which we are not aware. the technology that we incorporate into and use to develop and manufacture our current and future products, including the technologies we license, may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our business will also depend on our ability to develop new technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. third parties may allege that we infringe patents, trademarks or copyrights, or that we misappropriated trade secrets. these allegations could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management. if a successful claim were brought against us and we are found to infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages, including treble damages if it is determined that we have willfully infringed such rights, or be enjoined from using the technology deemed to be infringing or using, making or selling products deemed to be infringing. if we have supplied infringing products or technology to third parties, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses they may sustain as a result of the infringement. in addition, we may need to attempt to license the intellectual property right from such third party or spend time and money to design around or avoid the intellectual property. any such license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities and/or disrupt our business.   our patents may not provide meaningful protection for our technology, which could result in us losing some or all of our market position.   we own or have licensing rights under many patents and pending patent applications. however, the patents that we own or license may not provide us with meaningful protection of our technologies and may not prevent our competitors from using similar technologies, for a variety of reasons, such as:     •  the patent applications that we or our licensors file may not result in patents being issued;     •  any patents issued may be challenged by third parties; and     •  others may independently develop similar technologies not protected by our patents or design around the patented aspects of any technologies we develop.   moreover, we could incur substantial litigation costs in defending the validity of or enforcing our own patents. we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our intellectual property. however, our non-disclosure agreements and other safeguards may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and other proprietary information. if the patents that we own or license or our trade secrets and proprietary know-how fail to protect our technologies, our market position may be adversely affected.   third parties have or may acquire patents that cover the materials, processes and technologies we use or may use in the future to manufacture our amperium products, and our success depends on our ability to license such patents or other proprietary rights.   we expect that some or all of the hts materials, processes and technologies we use in designing and manufacturing our products are or will become covered by patents issued to other parties, including our 25 table of contents competitors. the owners of these patents may refuse to grant licenses to us, or may be willing to do so only on terms that we find commercially unreasonable. if we are unable to obtain these licenses, we may have to contest the validity or scope of those patents or re-engineer our products to avoid infringement claims by the owners of these patents. it is possible that we will not be successful in contesting the validity or scope of a patent, or that we will not prevail in a patent infringement claim brought against us. even if we are successful in such a proceeding, we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in prosecuting or defending such a proceeding.   risks related to owning our common stock   our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, significant market price and volume fluctuations, which may prevent our stockholders from selling our common stock at a profit and could lead to costly litigation against us that could divert our management’s attention.   the market price of our common stock has historically experienced significant volatility and may continue to experience such volatility in the future. factors such as our financial performance, technological achievements by us and our competitors, the establishment of development or strategic relationships with other companies, strategic acquisitions such as the planned acquisition of the switch, new customer orders and contracts, our exposure to, and the disruption in our relationship with sinovel, and our introduction of commercial products may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. for example, after we announced on april 5, 2011 that our largest customer, sinovel, had refused shipments on march 31, 2011, our stock price dropped significantly. in addition, the stock market in general, and the stock of high technology companies in particular, have in recent years experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which are often unrelated to the performance or condition of particular companies. such broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. due to these factors, the price of our common stock may decline and investors may be unable to resell their shares of our common stock for a profit. following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. currently a number of purported class action lawsuits have been filed against us on behalf of certain purchasers of our common stock, which we are prepared to rigorously defend. if we become subject to additional litigation of this kind in the future, it could result in additional substantial litigation costs, a damages award against us and the further diversion of our management’s attention.   item 1b.   unresolved