item 1a. risk factors   we may from time to time make written or oral statements that contain forward-looking information.  however, our actual results may differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections.  the following risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections. general factors   the ongoing instability in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. the ongoing global financial crisis may limit our ability to access the capital markets at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. accordingly, if the global financial crisis and current economic downturn continue or worsen, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.   we have a history of operating losses and have used increasing amounts of cash for operations and to fund our acquisitions and investments.   despite our recent gain on our sale of coalogix, we have a history of operating losses, and have used significant amounts of cash to fund our operating activities over the years.  in 2009, 2010 and 2011, we had operating losses of $2.3 million, $6.5 million and $8.0 million, respectively.  cash used in operating activities of continuing operations in 2009, 2010 and 2011 was $1.4 million, $6.3 million and $7.8 million, respectively.   in addition, we continue to pursue additional acquisitions and investment opportunities and may need to support the financing needs of our subsidiaries.  following the sale of coalogix, we currently have enough cash on hand to fund our operations for the next 12 months. however, we may need additional funds to finance future investment and acquisition activity we wish to undertake.  we do not know if such funds will be available if needed on terms that we consider acceptable.  we may have to limit or adjust our investment/acquisition strategy in order to continue to pursue our corporate goals.   there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends. in october 2011, our board of directors adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which acorn would pay quarterly dividends on our common stock. the source of our current dividends are the proceeds from our recent sale of coalogix. we intend to continue to pay such dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements of acorn applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. future dividends may be affected by, among other factors: • our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions or our subsidiaries; • use of cash to consummate various acquisition transactions; • stock repurchase programs; • the ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow in the future to enable acorn to continue to pay dividends; • changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; and • changes to our business model. our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends in any particular amounts or at all. a reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. 12 table of contents we depend on key management for the success of our business.   our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel.  in particular, our success depends on the continued efforts of john a. moore, our ceo, benny sela, ceo of dsit, lindon shiao, ceo of gridsense and jim andersen, ceo of ussi and other key management level employees.  the loss of the services of any of these key employees could materially harm our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow.  we do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees other than for our ceo, john a. moore. although to date we have been successful in retaining the services of senior management and have entered into employment agreements with them, members of our senior management may terminate their employment agreements without cause and with various notice periods.  we may also not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for our senior management or key employees if their services were no longer available.   loss of the services of a few key employees could harm our operations.   we depend on key technical employees and sales personnel.  the loss of certain personnel could diminish our ability to develop and maintain relationships with customers and potential customers.  the loss of certain technical personnel could harm our ability to meet development and implementation schedules.  the loss of key sales personnel could have a negative effect on sales to certain current customers.  although most of our significant employees are bound by confidentiality and non-competition agreements, the enforceability of such agreements cannot be assured.  our future success also depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel.  if we fail to attract or retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future, our business could be disrupted. we have recently hired an individual who is our senior director of external relations to assist in certain legislative and other governmental relations matters - such activities may be deemed to be lobbying efforts. to the extent that our senior director of external relations engages in activities that constitute “lobbying” under federal, state, or local laws, we have to register him and possibly ourselves and one or more of our subsidiaries under such applicable laws.  lobbying laws typically require periodic financial and other reports to be timely made and any failure to register or to comply with the applicable regulations could subject us, our employees and officers and directors to civil or criminal penalties.  we intend to comply with such laws. our awards of stock options to employees may not have their intended effect.   a portion of our total compensation program for our executive officers and key personnel has historically included the award of options to buy our common stock or the common stock of our subsidiaries. if the price of our common stock performs poorly, such performance may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract critical personnel. in addition, any changes made to our stock option policies, or to any other of our compensation practices, which are made necessary by governmental regulations or competitive pressures could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel.   compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance, public disclosure and financial accounting standards may result in additional expenses and affect our reported results of operations.   keeping informed of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting standards, including the sarbanes-oxley act, dodd-frank act, as well as new and proposed sec regulations and accounting standards, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources.  compliance with such requirements may result in increased general and administrative expenses and an increased allocation of management time and attention to compliance activities.   we may not be able to successfully integrate companies which we may invest in or acquire in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow.   part of our business model includes the acquisition of new companies either as new platform companies (omnimetrix in february 2012 (see recent developments), ussi in february 2010 and gridsense in may 2010) or complimentary companies for our subsidiaries. any failure to effectively integrate any future acquisition's management into our controls, systems and procedures could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.   our strategy is to continue to integrate our newly acquired companies and grow the businesses of all of our companies.  integrating acquisitions is often costly, and we may not be able to successfully integrate our acquired companies with existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other adverse operational or financial consequences.  integrating acquired 13 table of contents companies involves a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, including:   • failure of the acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; • inability to retain key personnel of the acquired companies; • dilution of existing stockholders; • potential disruption of our ongoing business activities and distraction of our management; • difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired companies; • difficulties in coordinating and integrating overall business strategies, sales and marketing, and research and development efforts; and • the difficulty of establishing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including accounting controls and procedures. if any of our acquired companies suffers customer dissatisfaction or performance problems, the same could adversely affect the reputation of our group of companies and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow.   in order to grow, one or more of our companies may decide to pursue growth through acquisitions. any significant acquisition by one or more of our operating companies could require substantial use of our capital and may require significant debt or equity financing.  we cannot provide any assurance as to the availability or terms of any such financing or its effect on our liquidity and capital resources. we incur substantial costs as a result of being a public company.   as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses in connection with our reporting requirements. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, dodd-frank act and the rules subsequently implemented by the securities and exchange commission ("sec") and nasdaq, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies.  these rules and regulations have already increased our legal and financial compliance costs and the amount of time and effort we devote to compliance activities.  we expect that as a result of continued compliance with these rules and regulations, we will continue to incur significant legal and financial compliance costs.  we continue to regularly monitor and evaluate developments with respect to these new rules with our legal counsel, but we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs.   we may in the future become involved in litigation that may materially adversely affect us.   from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, we may become involved in various legal proceedings, including commercial, product liability, employment, class action and other litigation and claims, as well as governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. such matters can be time-consuming, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. furthermore, because litigation is inherently unpredictable, the results of any such actions may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition.   goodwill recorded in connection with our acquisitions is subject to mandatory annual impairment evaluations and as a result, we could be required to write off some or all of this goodwill, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.   in accordance with applicable accounting principles, goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed annually or more frequently for impairment and other intangibles are also reviewed if certain conditions exist. during the year ended december 31, 2010, we recorded a $5.0 million impairment of goodwill associated with our former coreworx subsidiary following our decision to stop funding it and an impairment of $1.2 million associated with our gridsense segment. any additional impairment of the value of goodwill will result in an additional charge against earnings which could materially adversely affect our reported results of operations and financial position in future periods.   while we have not reported any material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting in the past, we cannot assure you that material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. if our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each annual report on form 10-k. 14 table of contents our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.   as a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. the existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information.   if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, or our intellectual property protection efforts are unsuccessful, others may duplicate our technology.   our operating companies rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights.  our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology, systems designs and manufacturing processes.  the ability of others to use our intellectual property could allow them to duplicate the benefits of our products and reduce our competitive advantage.  we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will be issued or, in the case of patents issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes.  further, a patent issued covering one use of our technology may not be broad enough to cover uses of that technology in other business areas.  even if all our patent applications are issued and are sufficiently broad, they may be challenged or invalidated or our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies or processes that are equivalent or superior to ours. we could incur substantial costs in prosecuting patent and other intellectual property infringement suits and defending the validity of our patents and other intellectual property.  while we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our property rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in doing so.  these actions could place our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights at risk and could result in the loss of patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights protection for the products, systems and services on which our business strategy partly depends.   we rely, to a significant degree, on contractual provisions to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge.  these trade secrets cannot be protected by patent protection.  these agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach.  our trade secrets may also be known without breach of such agreements or may be independently developed by competitors.   third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products and services if these claims are successful.  we also may incur significant expenses in affirmatively protecting our intellectual property rights. in recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in many technology-related industries and we believe that the industries that certain of our subsidiaries operate have a significant amount of patent activity.  third parties may claim that the technology or intellectual property that we incorporate into or use to develop, manufacture or provide our current and future products, systems or services infringe, induce or contribute to the infringement of their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe, induce or contribute to the infringement of those intellectual property rights and may be required to obtain a license to use those rights.  we may also be required to engage in costly efforts to design our products, systems and services around the intellectual property rights of others.  the intellectual property rights of others may cover some of our technology, products, systems and services.  in addition, the scope and validity of any particular third party patent may be subject to significant uncertainty.   litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming, and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations.  the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty 15 table of contents of intellectual property litigation increase these risks.  claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements or to indemnify our customers.  however, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all.  any inability on our part to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, manufacture and sale of our products, systems or services.  we may also be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, manufacture and sale of our products, systems or services.we also may be required to incur significant time and expense in pursuing claims against companies we believe are infringing or have misappropriated our intellectual property rights.   concentrations of credit risk   financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, escrowed funds, restricted deposits and trade receivables.  the counterparty to a significant amount of our cash equivalents is a money market of a major financial institution. we do not believe there is significant risk of non-performance by this counterparty.   the counterparty to our restricted deposits are two major israeli banks. we do not believe there is significant risk of non-performance by these counterparties. short-term deposits are in fdic insured certificates of deposit through the certificate of deposit account registry service.  the company does not believe there is significant risk of non-performance by the counterparties. the counterparty to our escrowed funds is a major financial institution. we do not believe there is significant risk of non-performance by this counterparty. approximately 32% of the trade accounts receivable at december 31, 2011 was due from two customers that pay their trade receivables over usual credit periods.  credit risk with respect to the balance of trade receivables is generally diversified due to the number of entities comprising our customer base. approximately 71% of the balance in unbilled revenue at december 31, 2011 was due from two customers that when billed, pay their trade receivables over usual credit periods.  credit risk with respect to the balance of unbilled revenue is generally diversified due to the number of entities comprising our customer base.   results from our past successful sales of subsidiary companies may not be repeated in the past, we have sold certain former subsidiaries (comverge and coalogix) at a profit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to repeat these successes with one or more of our current subsidiaries.  we invest in companies before they have a meaningful history of revenues and whether we can operate these entities successfully or realize any profit on our investments in them cannot be determined.      risks related to dsit solutions   failure to accurately forecast costs of fixed-priced contracts could reduce dsit's margins.   when working on a fixed-price basis, dsit undertakes to deliver software or integrated hardware/software solutions to a customer’s specifications or requirements for a particular project.  the profits from these projects are primarily determined by dsit's success in correctly estimating and thereafter controlling project costs.  costs may in fact vary substantially as a result of various factors, including underestimating costs, difficulties with new technologies and economic and other changes that may occur during the term of the contract.  if, for any reason, dsit's costs are substantially higher than expected, it may incur losses on fixed-price contracts. hostilities in the middle east region may slow down the israeli high-tech market and may harm dsit's operations.   dsit's operations are conducted in israel.  accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in israel may directly affect dsit.  any increase in hostilities in the middle east involving israel could weaken the israeli hi-tech market, which may result in a deterioration of the results dsit's operations.  in addition, an increase in hostilities in israel could cause serious disruption to dsit's operations if acts associated with such hostilities result in any serious damage to its offices or those of its customers or harm to its personnel.   exchange rate fluctuations could increase the cost of dsit's operations.   a majority of dsit’s sales are based on contracts or orders which are in u.s dollars or are in new israeli shekels (“nis”) linked to the u.s. dollar.  at the same time, most of dsit’s expenses are denominated in nis (primarily labor costs) and are not linked to any foreign currency.  the net effect of a devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to the nis is that dsit’s costs in dollar terms increases more than its revenues. dsit enters into forward contracts to try to mitigate its exposures to exchange rate fluctuations; however, we can provide no assurance that such controls will be implemented successfully. in 2011 the u.s. dollar strengthened in relation to the nis by 7.7%. 16 table of contents dsit is substantially dependent on a small number of customers and the loss of one or more of these customers may cause revenues and cash flow to decline.   in 2011, approximately 70% of dsit’s revenues were concentrated in four customers. these customers are expected to continue to make up a significant portion of dsit’s revenues and cash flow for 2012. a significant reduction of future orders or delay in milestone payments from any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the performance of dsit.   dsit is dependent on meeting milestones to provide cash flow for its operations.   dsit's operations place a great reliance on it meeting project milestones in order to generate cash flow to finance its operations.  should dsit encounter difficulties in meeting significant project milestones, resulting cash flow difficulties could have a material adverse effect on its operations.   dsit must at times provide significant guarantees in order to secure projects. these guarantees are often collateralized by restricted deposits.   some of the projects dsit performs require significant performance and/or bank guarantees. at december 31, 2011, dsit had $5.7 million of performance and bank guarantees outstanding. in addition, dsit had on deposit at two israeli banks approximately $2.4 million collateralizing some of these guarantees. these deposits are restricted and, accordingly, dsit cannot use these funds for operations until the guarantees which are being collateralized are released. at times, this can create cash flow difficulties which could have a material adverse effect on its operations.   in addition, dsit may not always be able to supply such guarantees or restricted deposits without financial assistance from acorn.  if acorn needs to provide financial guarantees for dsit, acorn may not have sufficient funds available to it to invest in other emerging ventures or take advantage of opportunities available to it in a timely manner.   if dsit is unable to keep pace with rapid technological change, its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may suffer.   some of dsit's solutions are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and technological obsolescence.  dsit's competitiveness and future success depends on its ability to keep pace with changing technologies and industry standards on a timely and cost-effective basis.  a fundamental shift in technologies could have a material adverse effect on its competitive position.  a failure to react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay dsit's development of new products, which could result in technological obsolescence, decreased revenues, and/or a loss of market share to competitors.  to the extent that dsit fails to keep pace with technological change, its revenues and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.   dsit is dependent on a number of suppliers who provide it with components for some of its products.   a number of dsit's suppliers provide it with major components for some of its products for the energy & security sonar solutions segment. some of these components are long-lead items. if for some reason, the suppliers cannot provide dsit with the component when it is needed and dsit cannot easily find substitute suppliers on similar terms, dsit may have increased costs and/or delays in delivering a product to a customer and incur penalties and lose customer confidence. in addition, project delays can also slow down revenue recognition and our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. while dsit is constantly attempting to develop secondary and tertiary suppliers for these components, it can provide no assurance that it will be successful in doing so on acceptable terms. dsit is a relatively small company with limited resources compared to some of its current and potential competitors, which may hinder its ability to compete effectively.   some of dsit's current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and broader name recognition than it does. as a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with dsit's existing and potential customers. they also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products which would allow them to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements.   17 table of contents risks related to gridsense   gridsense has incurred net losses and may never achieve sustained profitability.   gridsense incurred net losses for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011.  we believe that gridsense will reduce its losses in 2012; however, we can provide no assurance that gridsense will generate sufficient revenues and cash flow to allow it to become profitable or to sustain profitability or to have positive cash flows.   gridsense will need additional financing to grow and finance its operations   we expect that gridsense will continue to require working capital support in order to finance its operations in 2012 as it continues to grow its production, engineering and technical support team in 2012. this support may be in the form of a bank line, new investment by others, additional investment by acorn, or a combination of the above. we have no assurance that such additional support will be available in sufficient amounts, in a timely manner and on acceptable terms.  the availability and amount of any additional investment from acorn may be limited by the investment and working capital needs of our corporate activities and other operating companies. in addition to support from acorn, gridsense is in the process of negotiating a line of credit facility from a commercial bank. management believes that establishment of a bank facility is achievable during 2012. we have no assurance the gridsense will be successful in establishing a bank facility in 2012 or beyond.   gridsense’s products and services may not gain market acceptance or competitors may introduce offerings that surpass those of gridsense. the primary market for gridsense’s products and services is rapidly evolving which means that the level of acceptance of products and services that have been released recently or that are planned for future release by the marketplace is not certain. if the markets for gridsense’s products and services fail to develop, develop more slowly than expected or become subject to intense competition, its business will suffer. as a result, gridsense may be unable to: (i) successfully market its current products and services, (ii) develop new products, services and enhancements to current products and services, (iii) complete customer installations on a timely basis or (iv) complete products and services currently under development. if gridsense’s products and services are not accepted by its customers or by other businesses in the marketplace, gridsense’s business and operating results will be materially affected. in addition, we can provide no assurance that gridsense will be successful in deriving significant revenue growth through its current strategy and marketing initiatives. gridsense’s products are subject to regulatory approvals.   numerous regulations govern the manufacture and sale of gridsense’s products in the united states and other countries where gridsense intends to market its products. such regulation bears upon the approval of manufacturing techniques, testing procedures and approval for the manufacturing and sale of gridsense’s products, including advertising and labeling.   any failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals would adversely affect our ability to market our products. furthermore, product approvals may be withdrawn if problems occur following initial marketing or if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained.  the failure, delay or withdrawal of a previously given regulatory approval could materially adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and financial position. sales to utilities are generally characterized by long sales cycles. gridsense’s sales are largely dependent on the sales cycle of electric utilities which is typically long and requires much technical and application support.  the purchasing cycle for a utility may involve an evaluation trial or pilot, analysis of data and results, review of competitor’s offerings and smaller scale deployments, before a purchasing decision is made.  for large orders, some utilities are required to solicit competitive bids from other vendors which can contribute more time.  the entire process can take anywhere between several weeks to several quarters.  delays in securing purchase orders can materially adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and financial condition.   gridsense is attempting to broaden its revenue base by expanding into the north american market. gridsense is currently recording a significant portion of its revenue from sales generated in australia (more than 45% in 2011 and more than 60% for the 2010 calendar year).  gridsense believes that its continued growth and profitability will require additional expansion of sales in other markets, most notably the north american market.  to the extent that gridsense is unable to expand sales into other markets in a timely and cost-effective manner, its business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  in addition, even with the successful recruitment of additional personnel and international 18 table of contents resellers, there can be no assurance that gridsense will be successful in maintaining or increasing international market demand for its products.   exchange rate fluctuations could increase the cost of gridsense’s australian operations. gridsense has operations in both the u.s. and australia. its australian operations are subject to the volatility of the australian dollar vis-à-vis the u.s. dollar (in 2011 the australian dollar was virtually unchanged vis-a-vis the u.s. dollar while in 2010, the australian dollar strengthened by 13.3%).  while risks are somewhat mitigated by the fact that gridsense’s australian operation’s sales and expenses are primarily denominated in australian dollars, currency fluctuations may impact the translation of certain balance sheet items, affect the economics of manufacturing and ultimately affect its financial performance. gridsense does not employ specific strategies, such as the use of derivative instruments or hedging, to manage its foreign currency exchange rate exposures.   gridsense’s market is subject to rapidly changing technologies. gridsense markets its products in a field where electronics and software/firmware dominate. this fast changing area may generate unknown methods of detecting and monitoring disturbances that could render gridsense’s technology inferior, resulting in gridsense’s results of operations being materially adversely affected. gridsense does, however, closely monitor trends and changes in technologies and customer demand that could adversely impact its competitiveness and overall success.   gridsense is subject to vigorous competition with very large competitors that have substantially greater resources and operating histories.   some of gridsense’s competitors in the markets it serves are larger, better capitalized and have greater resources than gridsense. as gridsense grows and penetrates markets where larger companies have been established, it may experience a reduced rate of growth due to competitive forces.   competition from these competitors may have a material adverse effect on our operations, including a potential reduction in operating margins and a loss of potential business. risks related to ussi   ussi has a limited operating history.   ussi was formed in november 2007 and has a limited operating history.  many of its products are at a research and development stage and substantial time, effort and financial resources will be required before it can become profitable.  ussi’s operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, especially one that is dependent on developing new products for the oil & gas and security industries.  the likelihood of ussi’s success should be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with establishing a new business such as uncertainty in product development,  uncertainty in market acceptance of its products, competition, and changes in business strategy.  ussi has no assurance that it will be successful in its business activities.  ussi has incurred net losses and may never achieve sustained profitability.   since its inception, ussi has had annual operating losses. ussi expects to continue to have operating losses for the year ending december 31, 2012 and possibly beyond as a result of increases in operating expenses required to commence manufacturing and production and to expand its sales and marketing operations. ussi can provide no assurance that it will ultimately generate sufficient revenues to allow it to become profitable, to sustain profitability or to have positive cash flows.   ussi will need additional financing to grow its business and finance its operations   in the period since acorn's initial investment in november 2009 through may 2011, it has invested $2.5 million directly in ussi. during the period from may 2011 through january 2012, acorn advanced $2.5 million in contemplation of a new investment agreement that was signed in february 2012 (see recent developments). we have no assurance that ussi’s future capital needs will not exceed these amounts or that ussi will generate sufficient cash flow in the future to fund its operations in the absence of additional funding sources.  ussi may need to raise additional funds if revenues fail to meet projections or to fund a rapid expansion to meet product demand, respond to competitive pressures or acquire complementary products, businesses or technologies.  if additional funds are raised through the direct issuance of equity or convertible debt securities to third parties, acorn’s percentage ownership of ussi may be reduced. in addition, should additional funds be needed, there can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on 19 table of contents terms acceptable to ussi.  if funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, ussi may not be able to fund its growth, respond to competitive pressures or take advantage of unanticipated acquisition opportunities.  accordingly, this could materially and adversely affect ussi’s business, results of operations and financial condition.   ussi is a small company with limited resources compared to some of its current and potential competitors, which may hinder its ability to compete effectively.   some of ussi’s current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and broader name recognition than does ussi. as a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with ussi’s existing and potential customers. they also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than can ussi to its products, which would allow them to respond more quickly than ussi to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements.   if ussi is unable to keep pace with technological change, ussi’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may suffer.   many of ussi’s products are in the research and development stage.  in addition, some of ussi’s existing products may require additional engineering and upgrades in conjunction with market developments as well as specific customer needs.  there can be no assurance that ussi will continue to be successful in its engineering efforts regarding the development of its products and future technological difficulties could adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition. ussi is not yet ready to manufacture its products in commercial quantities.  in order to be successful, ussi's products must be manufactured in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost and must meet the specifications required by the customers regarding quality.  we believe that ussi's space and manufacturing capabilities at its current facilities in chatsworth, california to be sufficient to handle a large increase in sales for the future.  ussi has begun to increase its production staff and has purchased or is planning purchases of automation, control and tracking systems necessary to support larger scale production, but such systems have either not yet been purchased or if acquired, are not yet fully operational.  in addition to adding internal staffing and resources, ussi may consider potential opportunities to acquire third party manufacturing capacity through acquisition or contract manufacturing arrangements, and whether or when any will exist on terms acceptable to ussi cannot be determined. whether such systems and the personnel with the skills to effectively operate them can be put in place to meet customer orders on a timely and high quality basis can also not be determined.  failure to do so could result in delays or failures in meeting customer demand, resulting in a loss of customer confidence and orders.  such difficulties could materially and adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of ussi. ussi is dependent on a number of suppliers who provide it with key components for some of its products.   ussi’s products incorporate “state of the art” technologies.  as such, in many cases there are limited supplies of key components.  in particular, ussi currently relies on a single source for the development of its high-end interrogators for some of its technologically advanced product offerings.  ussi has not yet found a second source supplier that is economically feasible to use at this time.  while ussi continues to try to mitigate the risks associated with this key component, any production delays by this supplier or any adverse change to its financial condition could materially and adversely affect ussi’s business, results of operations and financial condition.   ussi’s targeted customers may be reluctant to try its alternative solution despite its increased reliability and lower cost.   potential customers may elect to continue to use the existing expensive and less reliable technologies given their familiarity of the existing products in the market.  the competition in ussi’s markets may have superior resources and marketing ability which could lead to potential customers selecting existing products over ussi’s products. while ussi continues to develop its products and invest in marketing efforts accordingly, there is no assurance that ussi’s products will be preferred in the market place relative to the competition with superior overall resources.  if the market place does not adopt ussi’s products as anticipated, ussi’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. failure to accurately forecast costs of fixed-priced contracts could reduce ussi’s margins.   when working on a fixed-price basis, ussi undertakes to deliver solutions to a customer’s specifications or requirements for a particular project.  the profits from these projects are primarily determined by ussi’s success in correctly estimating and thereafter controlling project costs.  costs may in fact vary substantially as a result of various factors, including underestimating costs, difficulties with new technologies and economic and other changes that may occur during the term of the contract.  if, for 20 table of contents any reason, ussi’s costs are substantially higher than expected, ussi may incur losses on fixed-price contracts. ussi may lose sales if it is unable to obtain government authorization to export its products. the export of some of ussi’s products may be subject to export controls imposed by the u.s. government and administered by the u.s. departments of state and commerce. in certain instances, these regulations may require pre-shipment authorization from the administering department.  for products subject to the export administration regulations (“ear”) administered by the department of commerce’s bureau of industry and security, the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product, the final destination and the identity of the end user.  all ussi products that are exported are subject to ear; however, most of ussi’s equipment is considered ear99.  ear99 items generally consist of low-technology consumer goods and do not require a license in many situations. however, if ussi were to attempt to export an ear99 item to an embargoed country, to an end-user of concern (as defined by the u.s. department of commerce) or in support of a prohibited end-use (as defined by the u.s. department of commerce), ussi would be required to obtain a license. exports of certain ussi products may also be subject to the international traffic in arms regulations (“itar”) regulations administered by the department of state’s directorate of defense trade controls and may require a license.   obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming. failure to obtain export licenses could significantly reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect ussi’s business, financial condition and results of operations. compliance with u.s. government regulations may also subject ussi to additional fees and costs. the absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect ussi’s competitive position. limited protection of proprietary technology; risks of infringement   ussi’s success is heavily dependent upon its internally developed technology.  ussi has filed patents covering the specific use and novel inventions developed internally.  to further protect its proprietary rights, ussi relies on a combination of patent, trade secret, nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions.  as part of its confidentiality procedures, ussi enters into nondisclosure agreements with its employees, as well as select consultants and strategic partners and limit access to and distribution of its designs and proprietary information.  despite these efforts, ussi may be unable to effectively protect its proprietary rights.  in addition, the expense associated with the enforcement of ussi’s proprietary rights may be substantial.   risks related to our securities   our stock price is highly volatile.   the market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. during 2011, our common stock has traded at prices as low as $3.46 and as high as $6.30 per share. fluctuations in our stock price may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control, including:   • general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continued volatility in the energy industry and the general economy; • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • announcements of changes in our senior management; • the gain or loss of one or more significant customers or suppliers; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors, customers or us; • the gain or loss of market share in any of our markets; • changes in our dividend policy; • changes in accounting rules; • changes in investor perceptions; or • changes in expectations relating to our products, plans and strategic position or those of our competitors or customers. in addition, the market prices of securities of energy related companies have been and remain volatile. this volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies.   our share price may decline due to the large number of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale in the public market including shares underlying warrants and options.   21 table of contents almost all of our outstanding shares of common stock are, or could upon exercise of options or warrants would become, eligible for sale in the public market as described below.  sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the possibility of these sales, may adversely affect our stock price.   as of march 1, 2012, 17,743,772 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding.  as of that date we had 223,645 warrants outstanding and exercisable with a weighted average exercise price of $4.20 and 1,157,915 options outstanding and exercisable with a weighted average exercise price of $4.34 per share, which if exercised would result in the issuance of additional shares of our common stock.  in addition to the options noted above, at march 1, 2011, 185,418 options are outstanding, but have not yet vested and are not yet exercisable.   22 table of contents item 1b. unresolved