item 1a.  risk factors risk factors that may affect our performance our future performance is subject to a number of risks.  if any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed and the trading price of our common stock could decline.  in evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k.  we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995.  it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider the following risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face. our facilities and manufacturing operations are vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural disasters and system failures.  any such interruption may harm our business. our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our manufacturing operations, which are co-located with our corporate headquarters in union city, california. these manufacturing operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events.  a failure of manufacturing operations, be it in the development and manufacturing of our piccolo or vetscan blood chemistry analyzers or the reagent discs used in the blood chemistry analyzers, could result in our inability to supply customer demand.  we do not have a backup facility to provide redundant manufacturing capacity in the event of a system failure or other significant loss or problem.  accordingly, if our manufacturing operations in union city, california were interrupted, we may be required to bring an alternative facility online, a process that could take several weeks to several months or more. additionally, we rely on several information systems to keep financial records, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions.  if we were to experience a system disruption in the information technology systems that enable us to interact with customers and suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business.  although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. we are not able to predict sales in future quarters and a number of factors affect our periodic results, which makes our quarterly operating results less predictable. we are not able to accurately predict our sales in future quarters.  our revenue in the medical and veterinary markets are derived primarily by selling to distributors that resell our products to the ultimate user.  while we are better able to predict sales of our reagent discs, as we sell these discs primarily for use with blood chemistry analyzers that we sold in prior periods, we generally are unable to predict with much certainty sales of our blood chemistry analyzers, as we typically sell our blood chemistry analyzers to new users.  accordingly, our sales in any one quarter or period are not indicative of our sales in any future period.   13 table of contents we generally operate with a limited order backlog, because we ship our products shortly after we receive the orders from our customers.  as a result, our product sales in any quarter are generally dependent on orders that we receive and ship in that quarter.  as a result, any such revenues shortfall would immediately materially and adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. the sales cycle for our products can fluctuate, which may cause revenue and operating results to vary significantly from period to period.  we believe this fluctuation is primarily due (i) to seasonal patterns in the decision making processes by our independent distributors and direct customers, (ii) to inventory or timing considerations by our distributors and (iii) on the purchasing requirements of the u.s. government to acquire our products.  accordingly, we believe that period to period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. in the future, our periodic operating results may vary significantly depending on, but not limited to, a number of factors, including: · new product or service announcements made by us or our competitors;   · changes in our pricing structures or the pricing structures of our competitors;   · our ability to develop, introduce and market new products or services on a timely basis, or at all;   · our manufacturing capacities and our ability to increase the scale of these capacities;   · the mix of sales among our instruments, consumable products and services;   · the amount we spend on research and development; and   · changes in our strategies. we depend on limited or sole suppliers, many of whom we do not have long-term contracts with, and failure of our suppliers to provide the components or products to us could harm our business. we use several key components that are currently available from limited or sole sources as discussed below. · blood chemistry analyzer components:  our blood analyzer products use several technologically-advanced components that we currently purchase from a limited number of suppliers, including certain components from single source suppliers, hamamatsu corporation and udt sensors (a division of osi optoelectronics).  our analyzers also use a printer that is primarily made by seiko north america corporation.  the loss of the supply of any of these components could force us to redesign our blood chemistry analyzers.   · reagent discs:  two injection-molding manufacturers, c. brewer & co. and nypro, inc., currently make the molded plastic discs that, when loaded with reagents and welded together, form our reagent disc products.  we believe that only a few manufacturers are capable of producing these discs to the narrow tolerances that we require.  to date, we have only qualified these two manufacturers to manufacture the molded plastic discs.   · reagent chemicals:  we currently depend on the following single source vendors for some of the chemicals that we use to produce the reagents and dry reagent chemistry beads that are either inserted in our reagent discs, lateral flow rapid tests or sold as stand-alone products:  amano enzyme usa co., ltd., kikkoman corporation biochemical division, microgenics corporation, a division of thermo fisher scientific, roche molecular biochemicals of roche diagnostics corporation, a division of f. hoffmann-la roche, ltd., sa scientific co., sekisui diagnostics (formerly genzyme diagnostics), sigma aldrich inc. and toyobo specialties. we market original equipment manufacturer supplied products that are currently available from limited sources as discussed below. · hematology instruments and reagent kits:  our vetscan hematology instruments are manufactured by diatron in hungary and are purchased by us as a completed instrument.  in addition, currently, we have qualified two suppliers to produce the reagent kits for our hematology instruments:  clinical diagnostic solutions, inc. and diatron.   · vspro specialty analyzers and cartridges:  our vetscan vspro specialty analyzers and cartridges are manufactured by scandinavian microbiodevices aps in denmark and are purchased by us as completed products.   · i-stat analyzers and cartridges: our vetscan i-stat 1 analyzers and cartridges are manufactured by abbott in north america and are purchased by us as completed products.   14 table of contents we primarily operate on a purchase order basis with most of our suppliers and, therefore, these suppliers are under no contractual obligation to supply us with their products or to do so at specified prices.  although we believe that there may be potential alternate suppliers available for these critical components, to date we have not qualified additional vendors beyond those referenced above and cannot assure you we would be able to enter into arrangements with additional vendors on favorable terms, or at all.  for the suppliers of original equipment manufactured products that we have long-term contracts with, there can be no assurance that these suppliers will always fulfill their obligations under these contracts, or that any suppliers will not experience disruptions in their ability to supply our requirements for products.  in addition, under some contracts with suppliers we have minimum purchase obligations and our failure to satisfy those obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these contracts. because we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers for our products, we are particularly susceptible to any interruption in the supply of these products or the viability of our assembly arrangements.  the loss of any one of these suppliers or a disruption in our manufacturing arrangements could adversely affect our business and financial condition. in the united states and china, we rely on abbott as our exclusive distributor in the medical market to sell our products.  our dependency on abbott means that any failure to successfully develop products and maintain this relationship could adversely affect our business. beginning in january 2013, pursuant to the abbott agreement, abbott has the exclusive right to sell and distribute in the united states and china (including hong kong) our piccolo xpress chemistry analyzer and associated consumables in the professionally-attended human healthcare markets, excluding sales and distribution to catapult health llc and specified customer segments, which includes pharmacy and retail store clinics, shopping malls and contract research organizations (cros) and cruise ship lines.  as a result of the abbott agreement, we will no longer have control over the marketing and sale of our primary medical products into most of the u.s. and china medical market and will be dependent upon the efforts and priorities of abbott in promoting and creating a demand for such products in such market.  should these efforts be unsuccessful, our business, financial condition and results of operations are likely to be adversely affected.  specifically, we do not have any control over pricing, inventory levels, distribution efforts and other factors that may impact the level of sales achieved, timing of revenue recognized and accruals for returns and other adjustments that may impact our reported sales.  moreover, as abbott only recently became the exclusive distributor of our piccolo xpress chemistry analyzer and associated consumables in january 2013, we are dependent upon their forecasts and initial sales efforts and maintenance of the existing sub-distributor agreements, which were assigned to them under our arrangement, in generating revenue with respect to these products.  this transition may result in significant variability of our revenues with respect to our products under this agreement. in addition, as a result of this agreement, we have substantially reduced the size of our united states medical sales force.  the initial term of the abbott agreement ends on december 31, 2017, and after the initial term, the agreement renews automatically for successive one-year periods unless terminated by either party based upon a notice of non-renewal six months prior to the then-current expiration date.  in the event the agreement is terminated, we would be required to invest and re-establish presence and sales capabilities in markets that were served by abbott and/or identify one or more suitable replacement distribution partner(s), which would require significant time and effort.  we could not be assured of replacing the capabilities of abbott in those markets.  new sales personnel and distribution partners take time to train and gain full productivity with customers, and if we are unable to accomplish this successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  should we fail to effectively develop our sales, marketing and distribution efforts and navigate regulatory challenges, our growth will be limited and our results of operations will be adversely affected. we would fail to achieve anticipated revenues if the market does not accept our products or services. we believe that our core compact blood chemistry analyzer product differs substantially from current blood chemistry analyzers on the market.  we compete with centralized laboratories that offer a greater number of tests than our products, but do so at a greater overall cost and require more time.  we also compete with other point-of-care analyzers that cost more, require more maintenance and offer a narrower range of tests.  however, these point-of-care analyzers are generally marketed by larger companies which have greater resources for sales and marketing, in addition to a recognized brand name and established distribution relationships. in the human medical market, we believe that our blood chemistry analyzers offer customers many advantages, including substantial improvements in practice efficiencies.  however, the implementation of point-of-care diagnostics in physicians’ offices involves changes to current standard practices, such as using large clinical laboratories, and adopting our technology requires a shift in both the procedures and mindset of care providers.  the human medical market in particular is highly regulated, structured, difficult to penetrate and often slow to adopt new product offerings.  if we or our distribution partner, abbott point of care, are unable to convince large numbers of medical clinics, hospitals and other point-of-care environments of the benefits of our piccolo blood chemistry analyzers and our other products, we could fail to achieve anticipated revenue.   15 table of contents historically, in the veterinary market, we have marketed our vetscan products through both direct sales and distribution channels to veterinarians.  we continue to develop new animal blood tests to expand our product offerings; however, we cannot be assured that these products will be accepted by the veterinary market.  any failure to achieve market acceptance with our current or future products or services would harm our business and financial condition. we rely on patents and other proprietary information, the loss of which would negatively affect our business. as of march 31, 2013, 61 patent applications have been filed on our behalf with the united states patent and trademark office (“uspto”), of which 34 patents have been issued and 15 patents are currently active.  additionally, we have filed several international patent applications covering the same subject matter as our domestic applications.  the patent position of any medical device manufacturer, including us, is uncertain and may involve complex legal and factual issues.  consequently, we may not be issued any additional patents, either domestically or internationally.  furthermore, our patents may not provide significant proprietary protection because there is a chance that they will be circumvented or invalidated.  we cannot be certain that we were the first creator of the inventions covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions, because (1) the uspto maintains all patent applications that are not filed in any foreign jurisdictions in secrecy until it issues the patents (when a patent application owner files a request for nonpublication) and (2) publications of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months.  we may have to participate in interference proceedings, which are proceedings in front of the uspto, to determine who will be issued a patent.  these proceedings could be costly and could be decided against us. we also rely upon copyrights, trademarks and unpatented trade secrets.  others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques that would undermine our proprietary technologies.  further, others may gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology.  although we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute agreements that require that our corporate information be kept confidential and that any inventions by these individuals are property of abaxis, there can be no assurance that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information.  the unauthorized dissemination of our confidential information would negatively impact our business. we must increase sales of our piccolo and vetscan products or we may not be able to increase or sustain profitability. our ability to continue to be profitable and to increase profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to increase our sales volumes of our piccolo and vetscan products.  increasing the sales volume of our products will depend upon, among other things, our ability to: · continue to improve our existing products and develop new and innovative products;   · increase our sales and marketing activities;   · effectively manage our manufacturing activities; and   · effectively compete against current and future competitors.   we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully increase the sales volumes of our products to increase or sustain profitability. we must continue to increase our sales, marketing and distribution efforts in the human diagnostic market or our business will not grow. the human diagnostic market is fragmented, heavily regulated and constantly changing.  our limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are continually challenged to translate these changes into compelling value propositions for our prospective customers.  accordingly, we cannot assure you that: · we will be able to maintain consistent growth through our key distributors in the human diagnostic market;   · the costs associated with sales, marketing and distributing our products will not be excessive; or   · government regulations or private insurer policies will not adversely affect our ability to be successful. we depend on key members of our management and scientific staff and, if we fail to retain and recruit qualified individuals, our ability to execute our business strategy and generate sales would be harmed. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff.  the loss of any of these key personnel, including in particular clinton h. severson, our president, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, might impede the achievement of our business objectives.  we may not be able to continue to attract and retain skilled and experienced marketing, sales and manufacturing personnel on acceptable terms in the future because numerous medical products and other high technology companies compete for the services of these qualified individuals.  we currently do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees.   16 table of contents   we rely primarily on distributors to sell our products and we rely on sole distributor arrangements in a number of countries. our failure to successfully develop and maintain these relationships could adversely affect our business. we sell our medical and veterinary products primarily through a limited number of distributors.  as a result, we are dependent upon these distributors to sell our products and to assist us in promoting and creating a demand for our products.  we operate on a purchase order basis with the distributors and the distributors are under no contractual obligation to continue carrying our products.  further, many of our distributors may carry our competitors’ products, and may promote our competitors’ products over our own products. we depend on a number of distributors in north america who distribute our vetscan products.  we depend on our distributors to assist us in promoting our products in the veterinary market, and accordingly, if one or more of our distributors were to stop selling our products in the future, we may experience a temporary sharp decline or delay in our sales revenues until our customers identify another distributor or purchase products directly from us. we depend on our distributors to assist us in promoting market acceptance of our piccolo chemistry analyzers in the united states medical market.  the loss of any of these distributors would have a material negative impact on our operating results and financial condition.  in particular, beginning in january 2013, pursuant to the abbott agreement, abbott has the exclusive right to sell and distribute in the united states and china (including hong kong) our piccolo xpress chemistry analyzer and associated consumables in the professionally-attended human healthcare market in this territory, subject to certain limitations discussed above.  as a result of the abbott agreement, we will no longer have control over the marketing and sale of such products into most of the u.s. and china medical market which subjects us to certain risks, as discussed above. internationally, we rely on only a few distributors for our products in both the medical and veterinary diagnostic markets.  we currently rely on distributors that carry either our medical or veterinary products in the following countries:  australia, austria, belgium, canada, czech republic, denmark, france, germany, hong kong, india, indonesia, ireland, israel, italy, japan, korea, macao, mexico, the netherlands, new zealand, the philippines, poland, portugal, romania, russia, singapore, spain, sweden, switzerland, turkey, the united arab emirates, the united kingdom and the united states.  our distributors in each of these countries are responsible for obtaining the necessary approvals to sell our new and existing products.  these distributors may not be successful in obtaining proper approvals for our new and existing products in their respective countries, and they may not be successful in marketing our products.  furthermore, an inability of, or any delays by, our distributor in receiving the necessary approvals for our new or other products can adversely impact our revenues in a country.  we plan to continue to enter into additional distributor relationships to expand our international distribution base and presence.  however, we may not be successful in entering into additional distributor relationships on favorable terms, or at all.  in addition, our distributors may terminate their relationship with us at any time.  historically, we have experienced a high degree of turnover among our international distributors.  this turnover makes it difficult for us to establish a steady distribution network overseas.  consequently, we may not be successful in marketing our piccolo and vetscan products internationally, and our business and financial condition may be harmed as a result. the failure of our abaxis veterinary reference laboratories to compete effectively and achieve profitability could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. for abaxis veterinary reference laboratories (“avrl”) to compete effectively and achieve profitability, we must convince our existing and prospective customers in the veterinary market that our service offerings would be an attractive revenue-generating addition to their practices.  in addition, we have to demonstrate that the services offered now and in the future at avrl are and will be attractive alternatives to those offered by our competitors, by differentiating our services on the basis of such factors as the range of tests offered, turnaround time, cost effectiveness and reliability of results.  this is difficult to do, especially to compete with existing competitors and new market entrants.  some of our competitors for sales of on-site testing products have a more established relationship with these customers than we do, which could inhibit avrl’s market penetration efforts.  we cannot be assured that avrl or its services will be accepted by the veterinary market.  if we are unable to convince large numbers of veterinarians of the benefits of avrl or otherwise fail to achieve market acceptance for avrl’s services, the growth of avrl will be limited accordingly, which could harm our laboratory business and financial condition. we need to successfully manufacture and market additional reagent discs for the human diagnostic market if we are to compete in that market. we have developed a blood analysis system that consists of a portable blood analyzer and single-use reagent discs.  each reagent disc performs a series of standard blood tests.  we believe that it is necessary to develop additional series of reagent discs with various tests for use with the piccolo chemistry analyzers if we are to compete in that market.  historically, we have developed reagent discs suitable for the human medical and veterinary diagnostic markets.  we have received 510(k) clearances from the u.s. food and drug administration (“fda”) for 27 test methods in the human medical market.  these tests are included in standard tests for which the medical community receives reimbursements from third-party payors such as managed care organizations and medicare.  we may not be able to successfully manufacture or market these reagent discs.  our failure to meet these challenges will materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.   17 table of contents   we rely on relationships with partners and other third parties that license our technologies and pay us royalties on sales of their products.  failure to maintain these relationships, poor performance by these companies or disputes with these companies could negatively impact our business. we rely on collaborative relationships with other companies for revenues resulting from royalties payable by these third parties in connection with technologies that they license from us.  if third parties fail to perform under license agreement or generate royalties to the level of our expectations, our operating results may be harmed.  in addition, reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including the following risks: · we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators may devote to products from which we derive royalties;   · disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with our partners, such as our recently-settled litigation with cepheid;   · disagreements with our partners could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of products or result in litigation or arbitration;   · contracts with our partners may fail to provide significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails to perform;   · should a partner fail to develop or commercialize products based on technologies we may license, we may not receive any future payments or any royalties for the technologies or products;   · collaborative arrangements are often terminated or allowed to expire, such as our former license with cepheid, which would adversely impact our royalty revenues; and   · our corporate partners may be unable to pay us, particularly in light of current economic conditions. given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. we may not be able to compete effectively with larger, more established entities or their products, or with future organizations or future products, which could cause our sales to decline. the diagnostic market is a well-established field in which there are a number of competitors that have substantially greater financial resources and larger, more established marketing, sales and service organizations than we do.  we compete primarily with the following organizations:   · commercial clinical laboratories;   · hospitals’ clinical laboratories; and   · manufacturers of bench top multi-test blood analyzers and other testing systems that health care providers can use “on-site” (a listing of our competitors is listed below).   historically, hospitals and commercial laboratories perform most of the human diagnostic testing, and veterinary specialized commercial laboratories perform most of the veterinary medical testing.  we have identified five principal factors that we believe customers typically use to evaluate our products and those of our competitors.  these factors include the following:   · range of tests offered;   · immediacy of results;   · cost effectiveness;   · ease of use; and   · reliability of results.   we believe that we compete effectively on each of these factors except for the range of tests offered.  clinical laboratories are effective at processing large panels of tests using skilled technicians and complex equipment.  currently, while our offering of instruments and reagent discs does not provide the same broad range of tests as hospitals and commercial laboratories, we believe that in certain markets, our products provide a sufficient breadth of test menus to compete successfully with clinical laboratories given the advantages of our products with respect to the other four factors.  in addition, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete effectively on cost effectiveness, ease of use, immediacy of results or reliability of results.  we also cannot assure you that we will ever be able to compete effectively on the basis of range of tests offered. our principal competitors in the point-of-care human diagnostic market are alere (formerly inverness medical technologies), alfa wassermann s.p.a., abbott laboratories’ i-stat division, johnson & johnson (including its subsidiary, ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc.) and f. hoffmann-la roche ltd.  many of our competitors in the human diagnostic market have significantly larger product lines to offer and greater financial and other resources than we do.  in particular, many of these competitors have large sales forces and well-established distribution channels and brand names.   18 table of contents   our principal competitors in the veterinary diagnostic market are idexx laboratories, inc. and heska corporation.  idexx has a larger veterinary product line and sales force than we do and a well-established distribution network and brand name.  consequently, we must develop our distribution channels and significantly expand our direct sales force in order to compete more effectively in these markets.  our veterinary reference laboratory, avrl, competes in the commercial laboratory arena nationwide with a full menu of laboratory diagnostics.  we differentiate our services on the following factors:  range of tests offered, turnaround time, cost effectiveness and reliability of results.  avrl’s principal competitors are idexx and antech diagnostics, a division of vca antech, inc. changes in third-party payor reimbursement regulations can negatively affect our business. by regulating the maximum amount of reimbursement they will provide for blood testing services, third-party payors, such as managed care organizations, pay-per-service insurance plans, medicare and medicaid, can indirectly affect the pricing or the relative attractiveness of our human testing products.  for example, the centers for medicare and medicaid services (the “cms”) set the level of reimbursement of fees for blood testing services for medicare beneficiaries.  if third-party payors decrease the reimbursement amounts for blood testing services, it may decrease the likelihood that physicians and hospitals will adopt point-of-care diagnostics as a viable means of care delivery.  consequently, we would need to charge less for our products.  if the government and third-party payors do not provide for adequate coverage and reimbursement levels to allow health care providers to use our products, the demand for our products will decrease and our business and financial condition would be harmed. we are subject to numerous governmental regulations and regulatory changes are difficult to predict and may be damaging to our business. effects of government regulation on our products our piccolo products are medical devices subject to regulation by the fda, under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (“fdca”).  medical devices, to be commercially distributed in the united states, must receive either 510(k) premarket clearance or premarket approval (“pma”) from the fda pursuant to the fdca prior to marketing.  devices deemed to pose relatively less risk are placed in either class i or ii, which generally requires the manufacturer to submit a premarket notification requesting permission for commercial distribution; this is known as 510(k) clearance.  most lower risk, or class i, devices are exempted from this requirement.  devices deemed by the fda to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life supporting or implantable devices, or devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a previously 510(k) cleared device or a preamendment class iii device for which pma applications have not been called, are placed in class iii requiring pma approval.  the fda has classified our piccolo products as class i or class ii devices, depending on their specific intended uses and indications for use. 510(k) clearance pathway to obtain 510(k) clearance, a manufacturer must submit a premarket notification demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent in intended use, principles of operation, and technological characteristics to a previously 510(k) cleared device or a device that was in commercial distribution before may 28, 1976 for which the fda has not called for submission of pma applications.  the fda’s 510(k) clearance pathway usually takes from three to six months, but it can take longer. after a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a pma approval.  the fda requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with a manufacturer’s decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance, the agency may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or pma approval.  the fda also can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pma approval is obtained, to redesign the device or to submit new data or information to the fda.  products marketed following the fda clearance also are subject to significant postmarket requirements. as of march 31, 2013, we have received the fda premarket clearance for our piccolo chemistry analyzer and 27 reagent tests that we have on 16 reagent discs.  we are currently developing additional tests which we will have to clear with the fda through the 510(k) notification procedures.  these new test products are crucial for our continued success in the human medical market.  if we do not receive 510(k) clearance for a particular product, we will not be able to market that product in the united states until we provide additional information to the fda and gain premarket clearance.  the inability to market a new product during this time could harm our future sales. effects of the clinical laboratory improvement amendments on our products our piccolo products are also affected by the clinical laboratory improvement amendments of 1988 (“clia”).  the clia regulations are intended to ensure the quality and reliability of all medical testing in the united states regardless of where the tests are performed.  the current clia regulations divide laboratory tests into three categories:  “waived,” “moderately complex” and “highly complex.”  five of the tests performed using the piccolo system are in the “moderately complex” category.  this category requires that any location in which testing is performed be certified as a laboratory.  hence, we can only sell some piccolo products to customers who meet the standards of a laboratory.  to receive “laboratory” certification, a testing facility must be certified by the cms.  after the testing facility receives a “laboratory” certification, it must then meet the clia regulations.  because we can only sell some piccolo products to testing facilities that are certified “laboratories,” the market for some products is correspondingly constrained.   19 table of contents we can currently offer the following piccolo reagent discs as waived tests to the medical market:  basic metabolic panel, comprehensive metabolic panel, electrolyte panel, general chemistry 6, general chemistry 13, kidney check, lipid panel, lipid panel plus, liver panel plus, metlyte 8 panel and renal function panel.  waived status permits untrained personnel to run the piccolo chemistry analyzer using these tests; thus, extending the sites (doctors’ offices and other point-of-care environments) that can use the piccolo chemistry analyzer. although we are engaged in an active program to test and apply for clia waivers for additional analytes, we cannot assure you that we will successfully receive clia waived status from the fda for other products.  consequently, for the reagent discs that have not received clia waived status, the market for our piccolo products may be confined to those testing facilities that are certified as “laboratories” and our growth would be limited accordingly, which could harm our business and financial condition. animal and plant health inspection service licensure of veterinary biologics our canine heartworm antigen (“chw”) diagnostic product is regulated as a veterinary biologic under the virus, serum, and toxin act of 1913.  in october 2009, we announced that we received licensure of our chw test utilizing a rotor-based assay system consisting of eleven other important canine health determinations from the animal and plant health inspection service (“aphis”).  veterinary biologics are licensed as are their manufacturing facilities.  products are subject to extensive testing to establish their purity, safety, potency, and efficacy.  licensed biologics are also required to be prepared in accordance with a filed outline of production, among other requirements.  failure to comply with aphis licensure or post-marketing approval requirements can result in the inability to obtain product or establishment licenses or cause the revocation or suspension of such licenses. in february 2012, we received a second license from aphis for our lateral flow test for vetscan canine lyme rapid test, a highly sensitive and specific test for the detection of borrelia burgdorferi in canine whole blood, serum or plasma.  we are currently developing additional tests that will be subject to aphis licensure as veterinary biologics.  if we do not receive licensure for these additional tests, we will not be able to market those products in the united states and our growth would be limited accordingly. need to comply with manufacturing regulations and various federal, state, local and international regulations the 1976 medical device amendment also requires us to manufacture our piccolo products in accordance with good manufacturing practices guidelines.  current good manufacturing practice requirements are set forth in the 21 cfr 820 quality system regulation.  these requirements regulate the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for the design, manufacture, packaging, storage, installation and servicing of our medical devices intended for human use.  our manufacturing facility is subject to periodic inspections.  in addition, various state regulatory agencies may regulate the manufacture of our products. federal, state, local and international regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of health care products and diagnostic devices may change.  in addition, as we continue to sell in foreign markets, we may have to obtain additional governmental clearances in those markets.  to date, we have complied with the following federal, state, local and international regulatory requirements: · united states food and drug administration (“fda”):  in march 2012, december 2010, august 2008, september 2005 and march 2003, the fda conducted a facility inspection and verified our compliance with the 21 cfr 820 regulation.   · united states department of agriculture:  in october 2009, we received a united states veterinary biologics establishment license from the united states department of agriculture.   · state of california food and drug branch (“fdb”):  in april 2001, the fdb granted our manufacturing facility “in compliance” status, based on the regulations for good manufacturing practices for medical devices.  in may 2001, the fdb granted licensing for our manufacturing facility in union city, california.  in december 2010, the fdb conducted a routine facility inspection and verified our compliance with good manufacturing practices for medical devices.   · international organization for standardization (“iso”):  in may 2002, we received our iso 9001 certification, expanding our compliance with international quality standards.  in december 2003, we received iso 13485 quality system certification as required by the 2003 european in vitro device directive.  this certified our quality system specifically to medical devices.  in april 2005, we received the canadian medical device conformity assessment system stamp on our iso 13485 certificate to signify compliance with health canada regulations.  in october 2009, we received our recertification to the iso 13485:2003 quality system standard for medical devices.  in may 2010, may 2011 and july 2012, we were recommended for continued certification to iso 13485:2003 by our current iso registrar.   20 table of contents   we are not required to comply with all of the fda government regulations applicable to the human medical market when manufacturing our vetscan products; however, we intend for all of our manufacturing operations to be compliant with the quality system regulation to help ensure product quality and integrity regardless of end use or patient.  as we continue to sell in foreign markets, we may have to obtain additional governmental clearances in those markets.  we cannot assure you that we will successfully pass the latest fda inspection or any re-inspection by the fda or the state of california.  in addition, we cannot assure you that we can comply with all current or future government manufacturing requirements and regulations.  we cannot predict what impact, if any, such current or future regulatory changes would have on our business.  we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearances for our products in the united states or in foreign markets, and the failure to obtain these regulatory clearances will materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.  if we are unable to comply with the regulations, or if we do not pass routine inspections, our business and results of operations will be materially adversely affected.  although we believe that we will be able to comply with all applicable regulations of the fda and of the state of california, including the quality system regulation, current regulations depend on administrative interpretations.  future interpretations made by the fda, cms or other regulatory bodies may adversely affect our business. we may inadvertently design or produce defective products, which may subject us to significant warranty liabilities or product liability claims.  we may have insufficient product liability insurance to pay material uninsured claims. our business exposes us to potential warranty and product liability risks that are inherent in the design, testing, manufacturing and marketing of human and veterinary medical products.  although we have established procedures for quality control on both the raw materials that we receive from suppliers as well as the design and manufacturing of our products, these procedures may prove inadequate to detect a design or manufacturing defect.  in addition, our piccolo and vetscan chemistry analyzers may be unable to detect all errors that could result in the misdiagnosis of human or veterinary patients. we may be subject to substantial claims for defective products under our warranty policy or product liability laws.  in addition, our policy is to credit medical providers for any defective product that we produce, including those reagent discs that are rejected by our piccolo and vetscan chemistry analyzers.  therefore, even if a mass defect within a lot or lots of reagent discs were detected by our piccolo and vetscan chemistry analyzers, the replacement of such reagent discs free of charge would be costly and could materially harm our financial condition.  further, in the event that a product defect is not detected in our piccolo chemistry analyzer, our relatively recent expansion into the human medical market greatly increases the risk that the amount of damages involved with just one product defect would be material to our operations.  our product liability insurance and cash may be insufficient to cover potential liabilities.  in addition, in the future the coverage that we require may be unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.  even with our current insurance coverage, a mass product defect, product liability claim or recall could subject us to claims above the amount of our coverage and would materially adversely affect our business and our financial condition. we may experience manufacturing problems related to our instruments, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and business. we manufacture our blood chemistry analyzers at our manufacturing facility in union city, california.  should we experience problems related to the manufacture of our blood chemistry analyzer, we could fail to achieve anticipated revenues or we may incur an additional increase in our cost of revenues.  these problems may include manufacturing defects and product failures, defects in raw materials acquired from our suppliers, delays in receipt of raw materials from our suppliers, obsolescence, increases in raw materials costs and labor disturbances. there can be no assurance that our efforts to resolve manufacturing difficulties will be successful or that similar problems will not arise in the future.  if we are unable to prevent such problems from occurring in the future, we may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities to meet anticipated demand and, therefore, will not be able to effectively market and sell our blood chemistry analyzers or other instruments that we market and sell; accordingly, our revenues and business would be materially adversely affected. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and the possible lack of financial stability in foreign countries could prevent overseas sales growth. for our international sales denominated in u.s. dollars, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets.  for our sales denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the particular foreign currency.  our operating results could also be adversely affected by the seasonality of international sales and the economic conditions of our overseas markets. we are subject to complex requirements from legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal control over financial reporting. rules adopted by the securities and exchange commission pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 require an assessment of internal control over financial reporting by our management and an attestation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting by an independent registered public accounting firm.  we have an ongoing program to perform the assessment, testing and evaluation to comply with these requirements and we expect to continue to incur significant expenses for section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis.   21 table of contents   our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of our fiscal years ended march 31, 2013 and 2012.  although we received an unqualified opinion on our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2013 and 2012, and on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of march 31, 2013 and 2012, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods.  in the event that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under section 404, or any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in implementation could harm operating results or prevent us from accurately reporting financial results or cause a failure to meet our reporting obligations in the future.  if management cannot assess internal control over financial reporting is effective, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and our share value may be negatively impacted. we must comply with strict and potentially costly environmental regulations or we could pay significant fines. we are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies that govern the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials and wastes.  in particular, we are subject to laws, rules and regulations governing the handling and disposal of biohazardous materials used in the development and testing of our products.  our costs to comply with applicable environmental regulations consist primarily of handling and disposing of human and veterinary blood samples for testing (whole blood, plasma, serum).  although we believe that we have complied with applicable laws and regulations in all material respects and have not been required to take any action to correct any noncompliance, we may have to incur significant costs to comply with environmental regulations if our manufacturing to commercial levels continues to increase.  in addition, if a government agency determines that we have not complied with these laws, rules and regulations, we may have to pay significant fines and/or take remedial action that would be expensive and we do not carry environmental-related insurance coverage. our operating results could be materially affected by unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable tax authorities.  any adverse outcome of such a review could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.  in addition, the determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment including our determination of whether a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets is required.  although we believe our estimates and judgments are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. our stock price is highly volatile and investing in our stock involves a high degree of risk, which could result in substantial losses for investors. the market price of our common stock, like the securities of many other medical products companies, fluctuates over a wide range, and will continue to be highly volatile in the future. during the quarter ended march 31, 2013, the closing sale prices of our common stock on the nasdaq global market ranged from $37.48 to $47.32 per share and the closing sale price on march 28, 2013, the last day of trading for our quarter ended march 31, 2013, was $47.32 per share.  during the last eight fiscal quarters ended march 31, 2013, our stock price closed at a high of $47.32 per share on march 28, 2013 and a low of $19.99 per share on august 8, 2011.  many factors may affect the market price of our common stock, including: · fluctuation in our operating results;   · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors;   · changes in governmental regulation in the united states and internationally;   · prospects and proposals for health care reform;   · governmental or third-party payors’ controls on prices that our customers may pay for our products;   · developments or disputes concerning our patents or our other proprietary rights;   · product liability claims and public concern as to the safety of our devices or similar devices developed by our competitors; and   · general market conditions.   because our stock price is so volatile, investing in our common stock is highly risky.  a potential investor must be able to withstand the loss of his entire investment in our common stock. our ability to issue preferred stock may delay or prevent a change of control of abaxis. our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders, except to the extent required by nasdaq rules.  the issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible financings or acquisitions or other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock and, consequently, negatively affect our stock price.   22 table of contents item 1b.  unresolved