item 1a.  risk factors risk factors that may affect our performance our future performance is subject to a number of risks.  if any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed and the trading price of our common stock could decline.  in evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k.  we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995.  it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider the following risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face. our facilities and manufacturing operations are vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural disasters, system failures and other business disruptions.  any such interruption may harm our business. our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our manufacturing operations, which are co-located with our corporate headquarters in union city, california.  these manufacturing operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events.  a failure of manufacturing operations, be it in the development and manufacturing of our piccolo or vetscan blood chemistry analyzers or the reagent discs used in the blood chemistry analyzers, could result in our inability to supply customer demand.  we do not have a backup facility to provide redundant manufacturing capacity in the event of a system failure or other significant loss or problem.  accordingly, if our manufacturing operations in union city, california were interrupted, we may be required to bring an alternative facility online, a process that could take several weeks to several months or more.  the occurrence of a business disruption could harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. we operate and manage our business by relying on several information systems to maintain financial records, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions.  information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations.  if we were to experience a system disruption in the information technology systems that enable us to interact with customers and suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers, delays or cancellation of orders, impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, processing transactions and reporting financial results and significant incremental costs.  while management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. although we carry property and business interruption insurance to insure against the financial impact of certain events of this nature, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. we are not able to predict sales in future quarters and a number of factors affect our periodic results, which may result in significant variance in our quarterly operating results and may negatively impact our stock price. we are not able to accurately predict our sales in future quarters.  our revenue in the medical and veterinary markets are derived primarily by selling to distributors that resell our products to the ultimate user.  while we are better able to predict sales of our reagent discs, as we sell these discs primarily for use with blood chemistry analyzers that we sold in prior periods, we generally are unable to predict with much certainty sales of our blood chemistry analyzers, as we typically sell our blood chemistry analyzers to new users.  accordingly, our sales in any one quarter or period are not indicative of our sales in any future period. we generally operate with a limited order backlog, because we ship our products shortly after we receive the orders from our customers.  as a result, our product sales in any quarter are generally dependent on orders that we receive and ship in that quarter.  any such revenues shortfall would immediately materially and adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. the sales cycle for our products can fluctuate, which may cause revenue and operating results to vary significantly from period to period.  we believe this fluctuation is primarily due (i) to seasonal patterns in the decision making processes by our independent distributors and direct customers, (ii) to inventory or timing considerations by our distributors and (iii) on the purchasing requirements of the u.s. government to acquire our products.  accordingly, we believe that period to period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful.  in the future, our periodic operating results may vary significantly depending on, but not limited to, a number of factors, including: · new product or service announcements made by us or our competitors;   · changes in our pricing structures or the pricing structures of our competitors;   · the sales performance of our independent distributors;   13 table of contents · excess inventory levels and inventory imbalances at our independent distributors; · our ability to develop, introduce and market new products or services on a timely basis, or at all; · our manufacturing capacities and our ability to increase the scale of these capacities; · the mix of sales among our instruments, consumable products and services; · the amount of our research and development and sales, general and administrative expenses; and · changes in our strategies. as a result, it is likely that in some periods our operating results will not meet investor expectations or those of public market analysts. any unanticipated change in revenues or operating results is likely to cause our stock price to fluctuate since such changes reflect new information available to investors and analysts.  any fluctuations in our quarterly results may not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our business and could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. in the united states, we rely on abbott as our exclusive distributor in certain medical market to sell our products.  our dependency on abbott means that any failure to successfully develop products and maintain this relationship could adversely affect our business. abbott has the exclusive right to sell and distribute our piccolo xpress chemistry analyzer and associated consumables in the united states professionally-attended human healthcare market, excluding sales and distribution to catapult health llc and specified customer segments, which includes pharmacy and retail store clinics, shopping malls and cros and cruise ship lines.  as a result of the abbott agreement, we no longer have control over the marketing and sale of our primary medical products into most of the u.s. medical market and are dependent upon the efforts and priorities of abbott in promoting and creating a demand for such products in such market.  should these efforts be unsuccessful, our business, financial condition and results of operations are likely to be adversely affected.  specifically, we do not have any control over pricing, inventory levels, distribution efforts and other factors that may impact the level of sales achieved, timing of revenue recognized and other adjustments that may impact our reported sales.  moreover, we are dependent upon abbott’s forecasts and sales efforts and maintenance of pre-existing sub-distributor agreements that were assigned to abbott.  the transition of this u.s. medical business has had an adverse effect on our revenues during fiscal 2014, with respect to lower average selling prices of piccolo products sold to abbott and the timing of purchases of our products now sold by abbott as it integrates our products into its sales process. in addition, as a result of the abbott agreement, we have substantially reduced the size of our united states medical sales force.  the initial term of the abbott agreement ends on december 31, 2017, and after the initial term, the agreement renews automatically for successive one-year periods unless terminated by either party based upon a notice of non-renewal six months prior to the then-current expiration date.  in the event the agreement is terminated, we would be required to invest and re-establish presence and sales capabilities in markets that were served by abbott and/or identify one or more suitable replacement distribution partner(s), which would require significant time and effort.  we could not be assured of replacing the capabilities of abbott in those markets.  new sales personnel and distribution partners take time to train and gain full productivity with customers, and if we are unable to accomplish this successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  should we fail to effectively develop our sales, marketing and distribution efforts and navigate regulatory challenges, our growth will be limited and our results of operations will be adversely affected. a failure to manage the inventory levels of our distributors effectively may adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations. we must manage the inventory of our products held by our distributors effectively.  any excess or shortage of inventory held by our distributors could affect our results of operations.  our distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages and cancel or delay orders if their inventory is too high.  they also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products, the products of our competitors that are available to them, and in response to seasonal fluctuations in customer demand.  revenues from sales to our distributors generally are recognized based upon shipment of our products to the distributors, net of estimated sales allowances, discounts and rebates.  inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance inventory levels of our instruments and consumables, especially in our united states veterinary market distribution channel, consisting of both national and regional distributors.  we must also balance the need to maintain sufficient inventory levels in the distribution channel against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of the shelf life of our consumable products and customer demand.  if we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory at our distributors or inventory imbalances in the distribution channel, we may have to reduce our selling prices, which could result in lower gross margins.  during the second half of fiscal 2014, our revenues were adversely impacted in the united states veterinary market by excess channel inventory and inventory imbalances and resulted to a decrease of sales orders from our largest distributors in the veterinary market.  the excess channel inventory was created as a result of our distributors not selling our products to end customers at the same rate as they were purchasing products from us.  should our efforts to monitor and manage channel inventory be unsuccessful, our business, financial condition and results of operations are likely to be adversely affected. 14 table of contents we would fail to achieve anticipated revenues if the market does not accept our products or services. we believe that our core compact blood chemistry analyzer product differs substantially from current blood chemistry analyzers on the market.  we compete with centralized laboratories that offer a greater number of tests than our products, but do so at a greater overall cost and require more time.  we also compete with other point-of-care analyzers that cost more, require more maintenance and offer a narrower range of tests.  however, these point-of-care analyzers are generally marketed by larger companies which have greater resources for sales and marketing, in addition to a recognized brand name and established distribution relationships. in the human medical market, we believe that our blood chemistry analyzers offer customers many advantages, including substantial improvements in practice efficiencies.  however, the implementation of point-of-care diagnostics in physicians’ offices involves changes to current standard practices, such as using large clinical laboratories, and adopting our technology requires a shift in both the procedures and mindset of care providers.  the human medical market in particular is highly regulated, structured, difficult to penetrate and often slow to adopt new product offerings.  if we or our distribution partner, abbott, are unable to convince large numbers of medical clinics, hospitals and other point-of-care environments of the benefits of our piccolo blood chemistry analyzers and our other products, we could fail to achieve anticipated revenue. historically, in the veterinary market, we have marketed our vetscan products through both direct sales and distribution channels to veterinarians.  we continue to develop new animal blood tests to expand our product offerings; however, we cannot be assured that these products will be accepted by the veterinary market.  any failure to achieve market acceptance with our current or future products or services would harm our business and financial condition. we depend on limited or sole suppliers, many of whom we do not have long-term contracts with, and failure of our suppliers to provide the components or products to us could harm our business. we use several key components that are currently available from limited or sole sources as discussed below. · blood chemistry analyzer components:  our blood analyzer products use several technologically-advanced components that we currently purchase from a limited number of suppliers, including certain components from our single source supplier, hamamatsu corporation.  our analyzers also use a printer that is primarily made by seiko north america corporation.  the loss of the supply of any of these components could force us to redesign our blood chemistry analyzers. · reagent discs:  two injection-molding manufacturers, c. brewer co., a division of balda ag, and nypro, inc., currently make the molded plastic discs that, when loaded with reagents and welded together, form our reagent disc products.  we believe that only a few manufacturers are capable of producing these discs to the narrow tolerances that we require.  to date, we have only qualified these two manufacturers to manufacture the molded plastic discs. · reagent chemicals:  we currently depend on the following single source vendors for some of the chemicals that we use to produce the reagents and dry reagent chemistry beads that are either inserted in our reagent discs, lateral flow rapid tests or sold as stand-alone products:  amano enzyme usa co., ltd., kikkoman corporation biochemical division, microgenics corporation, a division of thermo fisher scientific, roche molecular biochemicals of roche diagnostics corporation, a division of f. hoffmann-la roche, ltd., sa scientific co., sekisui diagnostics, sigma aldrich inc. and toyobo specialties. we market original equipment manufacturer supplied products that are currently available from limited sources as discussed below. · hematology instruments and reagent kits:  our vetscan hematology instruments are manufactured by diatron in hungary and are purchased by us as a completed instrument.  in addition, we currently have qualified two suppliers to produce the reagent kits for our hematology instruments:  clinical diagnostic solutions, inc. and diatron. · vspro specialty analyzers and cartridges:  our vetscan vspro specialty analyzers and cartridges are manufactured by smb in denmark and are purchased by us as completed products. · i-stat analyzers and cartridges: our vetscan i-stat 1 analyzers and cartridges are manufactured by abbott and are purchased by us as completed products. · rapid tests:  substantially all of our vetscan rapid tests are manufactured by a single source supplier. 15 table of contents we currently have purchase obligations with smb to purchase vspro specialty analyzers and related cartridges and diatron to purchase diatron hematology instruments.  however, we primarily operate on a purchase order basis with most of our suppliers and, therefore, these suppliers are under no contractual obligation to supply us with their products or to do so at specified prices.  although we believe that there may be potential alternate suppliers available for these critical components, to date we have not qualified additional vendors beyond those referenced above and cannot assure you we would be able to enter into arrangements with additional vendors on favorable terms, or at all.  for the suppliers of original equipment manufactured products that we have long-term contracts with, there can be no assurance that these suppliers will always fulfill their obligations under these contracts, or that any suppliers will not experience disruptions in their ability to supply our requirements for products.  in addition, under some contracts with suppliers we have minimum purchase obligations and our failure to satisfy those obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these contracts. because we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers for our products, we are particularly susceptible to any interruption in the supply of these products or the viability of our assembly arrangements.  the loss of any one of these suppliers or a disruption in our manufacturing arrangements could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we rely primarily on distributors to sell our products and we rely on sole distributor arrangements in a number of countries. our failure to successfully develop and maintain these relationships could adversely affect our business. we sell our medical and veterinary products primarily through a limited number of distributors.  as a result, we are dependent upon these distributors to sell our products and to assist us in promoting and creating a demand for our products.  we operate on a purchase order basis with the distributors and the distributors are under no contractual obligation to continue carrying our products.  further, many of our distributors may carry our competitors’ products, and may promote our competitors’ products over our own products. we depend on a number of distributors in north america who distribute our vetscan products.  in the united states veterinary market segment, we rely on mwi, a national distributor, and on various independent regional distributors.  we depend on our distributors to assist us in promoting our products in the veterinary market, and accordingly, if one or more of our distributors were to stop selling our products in the future, we may experience a temporary sharp decline or delay in our sales revenues until our customers identify another distributor or purchase products directly from us. internationally, we rely on only a few distributors for our products in both the medical and veterinary diagnostic markets.  we currently rely on distributors that carry either our medical or veterinary products in the following countries:  australia, austria, belgium, canada, czech republic, denmark, france, germany, hong kong, india, indonesia, ireland, israel, italy, japan, korea, macao, mexico, the netherlands, new zealand, the philippines, poland, portugal, romania, russia, singapore, spain, sweden, switzerland, turkey, the united arab emirates, the united kingdom and the united states.  our distributors in each of these countries are responsible for obtaining the necessary approvals to sell our new and existing products.  these distributors may not be successful in obtaining proper approvals for our new and existing products in their respective countries, and they may not be successful in marketing our products.  furthermore, an inability of, or any delays by, our distributor in receiving the necessary approvals for our new or other products can adversely impact our revenues in a country.  we plan to continue to enter into additional distributor relationships to expand our international distribution base and presence.  however, we may not be successful in entering into additional distributor relationships on favorable terms, or at all.  in addition, our distributors may terminate their relationship with us at any time.  historically, we have experienced a high degree of turnover among our international distributors.  this turnover makes it difficult for us to establish a steady distribution network overseas.  consequently, we may not be successful in marketing our piccolo and vetscan products internationally, and our business and financial condition may be harmed as a result. we must increase sales of our piccolo and vetscan products or we may not be able to increase or sustain profitability. our ability to continue to be profitable and to increase profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to increase our sales volumes of our piccolo and vetscan products.  increasing the sales volume of our products will depend upon, among other things: · the sales performance of our independent distributors; · our ability to improve our existing products and develop new and innovative products; · our ability to increase our sales and marketing activities; · our ability to effectively manage our manufacturing activities; and · our ability to effectively compete against current and future competitors. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully increase the sales volumes of our products to increase or sustain profitability. 16 table of contents we must continue to increase our sales, marketing and distribution efforts in the human diagnostic market or our business will not grow. the human diagnostic market is fragmented, heavily regulated and constantly changing.  our limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are continually challenged to translate these changes into compelling value propositions for our prospective customers.  accordingly, we cannot assure you that: · we will be able to maintain consistent growth through our independent distributors;   · the costs associated with sales, marketing and distributing our products will not be excessive; or   · government regulations or private insurer policies will not adversely affect our ability to be successful.   we depend on key members of our management and scientific staff and, if we fail to retain and recruit qualified individuals, our ability to execute our business strategy and generate sales would be harmed. our future success depends, to a great degree, on the principal members of our management and scientific staff.  the loss of any of these key personnel, including in particular clinton h. severson, our president, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, might impede the achievement of our business objectives.  we may not be able to continue to attract and retain skilled and experienced marketing, sales and manufacturing personnel on acceptable terms in the future because numerous medical products and other high technology companies compete for the services of these qualified individuals.  if we are unable to hire and train qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business.  additionally, if we are unable to retain key personnel, we may not be able to replace them readily or on terms that are reasonable, which also could hurt our business.  we currently do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees. the failure of our abaxis veterinary reference laboratories to compete effectively and achieve profitability could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. for avrl to compete effectively and achieve profitability, we must convince our existing and prospective customers in the veterinary market that our service offerings would be an attractive revenue-generating addition to their practices.  in addition, we have to demonstrate that the services offered now and in the future at avrl are and will be attractive alternatives to those offered by our competitors, by differentiating our services on the basis of such factors as the range of tests offered, turnaround time, cost effectiveness and reliability of results.  this is difficult to do, especially to compete with existing competitors and new market entrants.  some of our competitors for sales of on-site testing products have a more established relationship with these customers than we do, which could inhibit avrl’s market penetration efforts.  we cannot be assured that avrl or its services will be accepted by the veterinary market.  if we are unable to convince large numbers of veterinarians of the benefits of avrl or otherwise fail to achieve market acceptance for avrl’s services, the growth of avrl will be limited accordingly, which could harm our laboratory business and financial condition.   we may experience manufacturing problems related to our instruments, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and business. we manufacture our blood chemistry analyzers at our manufacturing facility in union city, california.  should we experience problems related to the manufacture of our blood chemistry analyzer, we could fail to achieve anticipated revenues or we may incur an additional increase in our cost of revenues.  these problems may include manufacturing defects and product failures, defects in raw materials acquired from our suppliers, delays in receipt of raw materials from our suppliers, obsolescence, increases in raw materials costs and labor disturbances.  there can be no assurance that our efforts to resolve manufacturing difficulties will be successful or that similar problems will not arise in the future.  if we are unable to prevent such problems from occurring in the future, we may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities to meet anticipated demand and, therefore, will not be able to effectively market and sell our blood chemistry analyzers or other instruments that we market and sell; accordingly, our revenues and business would be materially adversely affected. we need to successfully manufacture and market additional reagent discs for the human diagnostic market if we are to compete in that market. we have developed a blood analysis system that consists of a portable blood analyzer and single-use reagent discs.  each reagent disc performs a series of standard blood tests.  we believe that it is necessary to develop additional series of reagent discs with various tests for use with the piccolo chemistry analyzers if we are to compete in that market.  historically, we have developed reagent discs suitable for the human medical and veterinary diagnostic markets.  we have received 510(k) clearances from the u.s. food and drug administration (“fda”) for 27 test methods in the human medical market.  these tests are included in standard tests for which the medical community receives reimbursements from third-party payors such as managed care organizations and medicare.  we may not be able to successfully manufacture or market these reagent discs.  our failure to meet these challenges will materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 17 table of contents we rely on patents and other proprietary information, the loss of which would negatively affect our business. as of march 31, 2014, 63 patent applications have been filed on our behalf with the united states patent and trademark office (“uspto”), of which 37 patents have been issued and 11 patents are currently active.  additionally, we have filed several international patent applications covering the same subject matter as our domestic applications.  the patent position of any medical device manufacturer, including us, is uncertain and may involve complex legal and factual issues.  consequently, we may not be issued any additional patents, either domestically or internationally.  furthermore, our patents may not provide significant proprietary protection because there is a chance that they will be circumvented or invalidated.  we cannot be certain that we were the first creator of the inventions covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions, because (1) the uspto maintains all patent applications that are not filed in any foreign jurisdictions in secrecy until it issues the patents (when a patent application owner files a request for nonpublication) and (2) publications of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months.  we may have to participate in interference proceedings, which are proceedings in front of the uspto, to determine who will be issued a patent.  these proceedings could be costly and could be decided against us. we also rely upon copyrights, trademarks and unpatented trade secrets.  others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques that would undermine our proprietary technologies.  further, others may gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology.  although we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute agreements that require that our corporate information be kept confidential and that any inventions by these individuals are property of abaxis, there can be no assurance that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information.  the unauthorized dissemination of our confidential information would negatively impact our business. we face significant competition.  we may not be able to compete effectively with larger, more established entities or their products, or with future organizations or future products, which could cause our sales to decline. the diagnostic market is a well-established field in which there are a number of competitors that have substantially greater financial and operational resources and larger, more established marketing, sales and service organizations than we do.  we compete primarily with the following organizations:  commercial clinical laboratories, hospitals’ clinical laboratories, and manufacturers of bench top multi-test blood analyzers and other testing systems that health care providers can use “on-site” (a listing of our competitors is listed below). historically, hospitals and commercial laboratories perform most of the human diagnostic testing, and veterinary specialized commercial laboratories perform most of the veterinary medical testing.  we have identified five principal factors that we believe customers typically use to evaluate our products and those of our competitors.  these factors include the following:  range of tests offered, immediacy of results, cost effectiveness, ease of use, and reliability of results.  we believe that we compete effectively on each of these factors except for the range of tests offered.  clinical laboratories are effective at processing large panels of tests using skilled technicians and complex equipment.  currently, while our offering of instruments and reagent discs does not provide the same broad range of tests as hospitals and commercial laboratories, we believe that in certain markets, our products provide a sufficient breadth of test menus to compete successfully with clinical laboratories given the advantages of our products with respect to the other four factors.  in addition, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete effectively on cost effectiveness, ease of use, immediacy of results or reliability of results.  we also cannot assure you that we will ever be able to compete effectively on the basis of range of tests offered. our principal competitors in the point-of-care human medical diagnostic market are alere, alfa wassermann s.p.a., johnson & johnson (including its subsidiary, ortho-clinical diagnostics, inc.) and f. hoffmann-la roche ltd.  additionally, in certain segments of the human medical diagnostic market, we compete with abbott’s i-stat division.  many of our competitors in the human medical diagnostic market have significantly larger product lines to offer and greater financial and other resources than we do.  in particular, many of these competitors have large sales forces and well-established distribution channels and brand names. our principal competitors in the veterinary diagnostic market are idexx laboratories, inc. and heska corporation.  idexx has a larger veterinary product line and sales force than we do and a well-established distribution network and brand name.  consequently, we must develop our distribution channels and significantly expand our direct sales force in order to compete more effectively in these markets.  our veterinary reference laboratory, avrl, competes in the commercial laboratory arena nationwide with a full menu of laboratory diagnostics.  we differentiate our services on the following factors:  range of tests offered, turnaround time, cost effectiveness and reliability of results.  avrl’s principal competitors are idexx laboratories, inc and antech diagnostics, a division of vca antech, inc. 18 table of contents changes in third-party payor reimbursement regulations can negatively affect our business. by regulating the maximum amount of reimbursement they will provide for blood testing services, third-party payors, such as managed care organizations, pay-per-service insurance plans, and medicare and medicaid, can indirectly affect the pricing or the relative attractiveness of our human testing products.  for example, the centers for medicare and medicaid services (the “cms”) set the level of reimbursement of fees for blood testing services for medicare beneficiaries.  if third-party payors decrease the reimbursement amounts for blood testing services, it may decrease the likelihood that physicians and hospitals will adopt point-of-care diagnostics as a viable means of care delivery.  consequently, we would need to charge less for our products.  if the government and third-party payors do not provide for adequate coverage and reimbursement levels to allow health care providers to use our products, the demand for our products will decrease and our business and financial condition would be harmed. the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act, collectively,  ppaca, enacted in march 2010, made changes that are expected to significantly impact the medical device industries and clinical laboratories.  beginning in january 2013, each medical device manufacturer has to pay an excise tax in an amount equal to 2.3% of the price for which such manufacturer sells its medical devices.  the ppaca also mandates a reduction in payments for clinical laboratory services paid under the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule, or clfs, of 1.75% for the calendar years 2011 through 2015 and a productivity adjustment to the clfs, further reducing payment rates.  some commercial payors are guided by the clfs in establishing their reimbursement rates.  clinicians may decide not to order clinical diagnostic tests if third party payments are inadequate, and we cannot predict whether third-party payors will offer adequate reimbursement for tests utilizing our products to make them commercially attractive.  changes in healthcare policy, such as the creation of test utilization limits for diagnostic products in general or requirements that medicare patients pay for portions of clinical laboratory tests or services received, could substantially impact the sales of our tests, increase costs and divert management’s attention from our business. in addition, sales of our tests outside of the united states will subject us to foreign regulatory requirements, which may also change over time. we may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and other federal and state laws applicable to our marketing practices.  if we are unable to comply, or have not complied, with such laws, we could face substantial penalties. our operations are directly, or indirectly through our customers, subject to various federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal and state anti-kickback statutes, physician payment transparency laws and false claims laws.  these laws may impact, among other things, our sales and marketing and education programs and require us to implement additional internal systems for tracking certain marketing expenditures and reporting them to government authorities.  in addition, we may be subject to patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business.  if our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. approval and/or clearance by the fda, usda and foreign regulatory authorities for our products requires significant time and expenditures. before we may commercialize our human medical diagnostic products in the united states, we are required to obtain either 510(k) clearance or pma approval from the fda, unless an exemption from pre-market review applies.  for our veterinary biologics products, we must obtain approval from the usda’s cvb.  the process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming, and we may not be able to successfully obtain 510(k) clearance from the fda or may be subject to the more costly and time-consuming pma process. in addition, governmental agencies may change their clearance or approval policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, or take other actions which may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently approved or cleared products on a timely basis.  any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain, clearance or approval for our products could prevent us from generating revenue from these products and adversely affect our business operations and financial results. the fda and other regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers. for example, the manufacture of medical devices must comply with the fda’s quality system regulation, or qsr.  in addition, manufacturers must register their manufacturing facilities, list the products with the fda, and comply with requirements relating to labeling, marketing, complaint handling, adverse event and medical device reporting, reporting of corrections and removals, and import and export.  the fda monitors compliance with the qsr and these other requirements through periodic inspections.  if our facilities or those of our manufacturers or suppliers are found to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations, or if we or our manufacturers or suppliers fail to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse inspection, the regulatory authority could take enforcement actions that could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers’ demands, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.  we may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. 19 table of contents sales of our products outside the united states are subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing vigilance reporting, marketing approval, manufacturing, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement.  these regulatory requirements vary greatly from country to country.  as a result, the time required to obtain approvals outside the united states may differ from that required to obtain fda clearance or usda approval, and we may not be able to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all.  clearance or approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure clearance or approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the fda.   a recall of our products or the discovery of serious safety issues with our products that leads to corrective actions, could have a significant adverse impact on us. the fda, usda and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture of a product or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health.  manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found.  a government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues.  we are required to report to the fda any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury.  repeated product malfunctions may result in a voluntary or involuntary product recall.  recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition, which could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers’ demands.  moreover, if we do not adequately address problems associated with our devices, we may face additional regulatory enforcement action, including fda warning letters, product seizure, injunctions, administrative penalties, or civil or criminal fines.  we may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our sales as well as face significant adverse publicity or regulatory consequences, which could harm our business, including our ability to market our products in the future. we may inadvertently design or produce defective products, which may subject us to significant warranty liabilities or product liability claims.  we may have insufficient product liability insurance to pay material uninsured claims. our business exposes us to potential warranty and product liability risks that are inherent in the design, testing, manufacturing and marketing of human and veterinary medical products.  although we have established procedures for quality control on both the raw materials that we receive from suppliers as well as the design and manufacturing of our products, these procedures may prove inadequate to detect a design or manufacturing defect.  in addition, our piccolo and vetscan chemistry analyzers may be unable to detect all errors that could result in the misdiagnosis of human or veterinary patients. we may be subject to substantial claims for defective products under our warranty policy or product liability laws.  in addition, our policy is to credit medical providers for any defective product that we produce, including those reagent discs that are rejected by our piccolo and vetscan chemistry analyzers.  therefore, even if a mass defect within a lot or lots of reagent discs were detected by our piccolo and vetscan chemistry analyzers, the replacement of such reagent discs free of charge would be costly and could materially harm our financial condition.  further, in the event that a product defect is not detected in our piccolo chemistry analyzer, our expansion into the human medical market greatly increases the risk that the amount of damages involved with just one product defect would be material to our operations.  our product liability insurance and cash may be insufficient to cover potential liabilities.  in addition, in the future the coverage that we require may be unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.  even with our current insurance coverage, a mass product defect, product liability claim or recall could subject us to claims above the amount of our coverage and would materially adversely affect our business and our financial condition. we may be subject to litigation for a variety of claims, which could adversely affect our results of operations, harm our reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. in addition to product liability claims, we and our directors and officers may be subject to claims arising from our normal business activities.  these may include claims, suits, and proceedings involving shareholder and fiduciary matters, intellectual property, labor and employment, wage and hour, commercial and other matters, such as the suit filed by the st. louis police retirement system litigation described under “legal proceedings” in part ii, item 1 of this report.  the outcome of any litigation, regardless of its merits, is inherently uncertain.  any claims and lawsuits, and the disposition of such claims and lawsuits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, divert management attention and resources, and lead to attempts on the part of other parties to pursue similar claims.  any adverse determination related to litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, harm our reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business.  in addition, depending on the nature and timing of any such dispute, a resolution of a legal matter could materially affect our future results of operations, our cash flows or both. 20 table of contents our stock price is highly volatile and investing in our stock involves a high degree of risk, which could result in substantial losses for investors. the market price of our common stock, like the securities of many other medical products companies, fluctuates over a wide range, and will continue to be highly volatile in the future.  during the quarter ended march 31, 2014, the closing sale prices of our common stock on the nasdaq global select market ranged from $36.29 to $45.01 per share and the closing sale price on march 31, 2014, was $38.88 per share.  during the last eight fiscal quarters ended march 31, 2014, our stock price closed at a high of $51.41 per share on july 11, 2013 and a low of $26.46 per share on april 13, 2012.  many factors may affect the market price of our common stock, including: · fluctuation in our operating results; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; · changes in governmental regulation in the united states and internationally; · prospects and proposals for health care reform; · governmental or third-party payors’ controls on prices that our customers may pay for our products; · developments or disputes concerning our patents or our other proprietary rights; · product liability claims and public concern as to the safety of our devices or similar devices developed by our competitors; and · general market conditions. in the past, stockholders have filed securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility.  if we were to become involved in such securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business, and adversely affect our business.  because our stock price is so volatile, investing in our common stock is highly risky.  a potential investor must be able to withstand the loss of his entire investment in our common stock.   fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and the possible lack of financial stability in foreign countries could prevent overseas sales growth. for our international sales denominated in u.s. dollars, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets.  for our sales denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to fluctuations in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and the particular foreign currency and changes in such exchange rates could materially impact our reported results of operations and distort period to period comparisons.  our operating results could also be adversely affected by the seasonality of international sales and the economic conditions of our overseas markets. we are subject to complex requirements from legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal control over financial reporting. rules adopted by the securities and exchange commission pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 require an assessment of internal control over financial reporting by our management and an attestation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting by an independent registered public accounting firm.  we have an ongoing program to perform the assessment, testing and evaluation to comply with these requirements and we expect to continue to incur significant expenses for section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods.  in the event that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under section 404, or any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in implementation could harm operating results or prevent us from accurately reporting financial results or cause a failure to meet our reporting obligations in the future.  if management cannot assess internal control over financial reporting is effective, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and our share value may be negatively impacted. 21 table of contents regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as conflict minerals, originating from the democratic republic of congo, or the drc, and adjoining countries.  as a result, in august 2012 the sec adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for public companies that use conflict minerals mined from the drc and adjoining countries in their products.  we have determined that we use at least one of these conflict minerals in the manufacture of our products, although we have not yet determined the source of the conflict minerals that we use.  these new disclosure requirements require us to use diligent efforts to determine which conflict minerals we use and the source of those conflict minerals, and disclose the results of our findings beginning in may 2014.  there are and will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including those costs incurred in conducting diligent efforts to determine which conflict minerals we use and the sources of conflict minerals used in our products.  further, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products.  as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering conflict free conflict minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free conflict minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices.  in addition, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement.  if we determine to redesign our products to not use conflict minerals, we would incur additional costs. we must comply with strict and potentially costly environmental regulations or we could pay significant fines. we are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies that govern the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials and wastes.  in particular, we are subject to laws, rules and regulations governing the handling and disposal of biohazardous materials used in the development and testing of our products.  our costs to comply with applicable environmental regulations consist primarily of handling and disposing of human and veterinary blood samples for testing (whole blood, plasma, serum).  although we believe that we have complied with applicable laws and regulations in all material respects and have not been required to take any action to correct any noncompliance, we may have to incur significant costs to comply with environmental regulations if our manufacturing to commercial levels continues to increase.  in addition, if a government agency determines that we have not complied with these laws, rules and regulations, we may have to pay significant fines and/or take remedial action that would be expensive and we do not carry environmental-related insurance coverage. our operating results could be materially affected by unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable tax authorities.  any adverse outcome of such a review could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.  in addition, the determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment including our determination of whether a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets is required.  although we believe our estimates and judgments are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. our ability to issue preferred stock may delay or prevent a change of control of abaxis. our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders, except to the extent required by nasdaq rules.  the issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible financings or acquisitions or other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock and, consequently, negatively affect our stock price. item 1b.  unresolved