item 1a. risk factors   you should consider carefully the following information about the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other public filings in evaluating our business. our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected by these risks if any of them actually occurs. in these circumstances, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business.   risks related to our business, industry and financial condition   we may never commercialize any of our products or earn a profit.   we have not received regulatory approval for any drugs or products. since our fiscal 2010 year, we have not generated commercial revenues from marketing or selling any drugs or other products. we currently have no revenues from product sales, have not generated any revenue from operations for the last four fiscal years, and expect to incur substantial net losses for the foreseeable future to further develop and commercialize our product candidates and technologies. we may never be able to commercialize any of our product candidates or be able to generate revenues from products sales. because of the risks and uncertainties associated with developing and commercializing our specialty pharmaceuticals, cancer and other product candidates, we are unable to predict when we may commercially introduce products, the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. we may never successfully commercialize our product candidates, and our business may fail.   our auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain further financing.   our audited financial statements for the year ended march 31, 2014, were prepared under the assumption that we would continue our operations as a going concern. our independent registered public accounting firm has included a “going concern” explanatory paragraph in its report on our financial statements for the years ended march 31, 2014 and 2013, indicating that we have sustained substantial losses from continuing operations and have used, rather than provided, cash in our continuing operations, and that these factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. uncertainty concerning our ability to continue as a going concern may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. continued operations and our ability to continue as a going concern are dependent on our ability to obtain additional funding in the near future and thereafter, and there are no assurances that such funding will be available at all or will be available in sufficient amounts or on reasonable terms. our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. without additional funds from debt or equity financings, sales of assets, sales or out-licenses of intellectual property or technologies, or other transactions, we will exhaust our resources and will be unable to continue operations. if we cannot continue as a viable entity, our stockholders would likely lose most or all of their investment in us.   we will require additional financing to continue as a going concern.   we incurred a net loss of approximately $8.2 million for the year ended march 31, 2014, and a net loss of approximately $7.2 million for the year ended march 31, 2013. at march 31, 2014, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $5.4 million, no accounts receivable and liabilities of approximately $2.9 million. absent additional funding, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our operations only for a relatively short period of time. the development of our business will require substantial additional capital in the future to commercialize our epinephrine pfs product, proceed with development of the apc-5000 dpi product, and conduct research and develop our cancer and vaccine technologies and other product candidates, as well as to fund our ongoing operations and satisfy our obligations and liabilities. we have historically relied upon private sales of our equity or debt securities to fund our operations. we currently have no credit facility or committed sources of capital. delays in obtaining funding could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercially introduce products and cause us to be unable to comply with our obligations under outstanding instruments.   our ability to obtain additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment. if we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our product candidates, restrict our operations or obtain funds by entering into agreements on unattractive terms, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, stock price and our relationships with third parties with whom we have business relationships, at least until additional funding is obtained. if we do not have sufficient funds to continue operations, we could be required to seek bankruptcy protection or other alternatives that would likely result in our stockholders losing some or all of their investment in us.   statements in this annual report on form 10-k concerning our future plans and operations are dependent on our ability to secure adequate funding and the absence of unexpected delays or adverse developments. we may not be able to secure required funding.   16     the statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k concerning future events or developments or our future activities, such as concerning current or planned clinical trials, anticipated research and development activities, anticipated dates for commencement of clinical trials, anticipated completion dates of clinical trials, anticipated meetings with the fda or other regulatory authorities concerning our product candidates, anticipated dates for submissions to obtain required regulatory marketing approvals, anticipated dates for commercial introduction of products, and other statements concerning our future operations and activities, are forward-looking statements that in each instance assume that we are able to obtain sufficient funding in the near term and thereafter to support such activities and continue our operations and planned activities in a timely manner. there can be no assurance that this will be the case. also, such statements assume that there are no significant unexpected developments or events that delay or prevent such activities from occurring. failure to timely obtain sufficient funding, or unexpected developments or events, could delay the occurrence of such events or prevent the events described in any such statements from occurring which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   we have incurred losses since our inception, and we anticipate that we will continue to incur losses. we may never achieve or sustain profitability.   we incurred net losses of approximately $8.2 million for the year ended march 31, 2014, and a net loss of approximately $7.2 million for the year ended march 31, 2013. from inception through march 31, 2014, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $46.1 million. these losses will increase as we continue our research and development activities, seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates and commercialize any approved products. these losses will cause, among other things, our stockholders’ equity and working capital to decrease. any future earnings and cash flow from operations of our business are dependent on our ability to further develop our products and on revenues and profitability from sales of products.   there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable at all or on a sustained basis. even if we generate revenues, we expect to have quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues and expenses, some of which could be significant, due to research, development, clinical trial, marketing and manufacturing expenses and activities. if our product candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval, or if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. as we commercialize and market products, we will need to incur expenses for product marketing and brand awareness and conduct significant research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities that, together with general and administrative expenses, could result in substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.   our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our business and our future viability.   we are in the relatively early stage of operations and development of current products and product candidates and have only a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects. even if we successfully obtain additional funding, we are subject to the risks associated with early stage companies with a limited operating history, including: the need for additional financings; the uncertainty of research and development efforts resulting in successful commercial products, as well as the marketing and customer acceptance of such products; unexpected issues with the fda or other federal or state regulatory authorities; regulatory setbacks and delays; competition from larger organizations; reliance on the proprietary technology of others; dependence on key personnel; uncertain patent protection; fluctuations in expenses; and dependence on corporate partners and collaborators. any failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could seriously harm our business and prospects. we may not succeed given the technological, marketing, strategic and competitive challenges we will face. the likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties, complications, problems and delays frequently encountered in connection with the growth of a new business, the continuing development of new drug technology, and the competitive and regulatory environment in which we operate or may choose to operate in the future.   many of our potential products and technologies are in early stages of development.   the development of new pharmaceutical products is a highly risky undertaking, and there can be no assurance that any future research and development efforts we might undertake will be successful. our potential products in the cancer and viral fields will require extensive additional research and development before any commercial introduction, as will research and development work on our allergy and respiratory products. there can be no assurance that any future research, development or clinical trial efforts will result in viable products or meet efficacy standards. future clinical or preclinical results may be negative or insufficient to allow us to successfully market our product candidates. obtaining needed data and results may take longer than planned or may not be obtained at all. any such delays or setbacks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our financial goals.   we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, regulatory approval, or may not be successful in commercializing our planned and future products.   17     like many companies our size, we do not have the ability to conduct preclinical or clinical studies for our product candidates without the assistance of third parties who conduct the studies on our behalf. these third parties are usually toxicology facilities and clinical research organizations, or cros, that have significant resources and experience in the conduct of pre-clinical and clinical studies. the toxicology facilities conduct the pre-clinical safety studies as well as associated tasks connected with these studies. the cros typically perform patient recruitment, project management, data management, statistical analysis, and other reporting functions. we intend to rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates and to use third party toxicology facilities and cros for our pre-clinical and clinical studies. we may also rely on academic institutions or clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of clinical trials involving our products.   our reliance on these third parties for development activities will reduce our control over these activities. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, we may be required to replace them, and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. although we believe there are a number of third-party contractors that we could engage to continue these activities, replacing a third-party contractor may result in a delay of the affected trial.   delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing of our product candidates could result in increased costs and delay our ability to generate significant revenues.   the actual timing of commencement and completion of clinical trials can vary dramatically from our anticipated timing due to factors such as funding limitations, scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, and the rate of patient enrollment. clinical trials involving our product candidates may not commence or be completed as forecast. delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly impact our product development costs. we do not know whether current or planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. the commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in:   • obtaining required funding; • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites; • obtaining sufficient quantities of clinical trial materials for product candidates; • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and • recruiting participants for a clinical trial.   in addition, once a clinical trial has begun, it may be suspended or terminated by us or the fda or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:   • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the fda or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • failure to achieve certain efficacy and/or safety standards; or • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial.   clinical trials require sufficient participant enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the target patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of participants to clinical trial sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the eligibility criteria for our clinical trials and competing trials. delays in enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. our failure to enroll participants in our clinical trials could delay the completion of the clinical trials beyond current expectations. in addition, the fda could require us to conduct clinical trials with a larger number of participants than we may project for any of our product candidates. as a result of these factors, we may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of participants in a timely or cost-effective manner.   furthermore, enrolled participants may drop out of clinical trials, which could impair the validity or statistical significance of the clinical trials. a number of factors can influence the discontinuation rate, including, but not limited to: the inclusion of a placebo in a trial; possible lack of effect of the product candidate being tested at one or more of the dose levels being tested; adverse side effects experienced, whether or not related to the product candidate; and the availability of numerous alternative treatment options that may induce participants to withdraw from the trial.   we may be required to suspend, repeat or terminate our clinical trials if the trials are not well designed, do not meet regulatory requirements or the results are negative or inconclusive, which may result in significant negative repercussions on business and financial condition.   before regulatory approval for a potential product can be obtained, we must undertake clinical testing on humans to demonstrate the tolerability and efficacy of the product. we cannot assure you that we will obtain authorization to permit product candidates that are in the preclinical development phase to enter the human clinical testing phase. in addition, we cannot assure you that any authorized preclinical or clinical testing will be completed successfully within any specified time period by us, or without significant additional resources or expertise to those originally expected to be necessary. we cannot assure you that such testing will show potential products to be safe and efficacious or that any such product will be approved for a specific indication. further, the results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of the results that will be obtained in later-stage clinical trials. in addition, we or regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials at any time on the basis that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks.   18     we are subject to the risk of clinical trial and product liability lawsuits.   the testing of human health care product candidates entails an inherent risk of allegations of clinical trial liability, while the marketing and sale of approved products entails an inherent risk of allegations of product liability and associated adverse publicity. we currently maintain liability insurance coverage of $1,000,000. such insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. as we conduct additional clinical trials and introduce products into the united states market, the risk of adverse events increases and our requirements for liability insurance coverage are likely to increase. we are subject to the risk that substantial liability claims from the testing or marketing of pharmaceutical products could be asserted against us in the future. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain insurance on acceptable terms, particularly in overseas locations, for clinical and commercial activities or that any insurance obtained will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. an inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could inhibit our business.   moreover, our current and future coverages may not be adequate to protect us from all of the liabilities that we may incur. if losses from liability claims exceed our insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that exceed our financial resources. in addition, a product or clinical trial liability action against us would be expensive and time-consuming to defend, even if we ultimately prevailed. if we are required to pay a claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources and our business and results of operations may be harmed. a product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations.   we do not have commercial-scale manufacturing capability, and we lack commercial manufacturing experience. we will likely rely on third parties to manufacture and supply our product candidates.   we do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of product candidates. we do not have any experience in drug formulation or manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. accordingly, we expect to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. any performance failure on the part of our contract manufacturers could delay clinical development, regulatory approval or commercialization of our current or future product candidates, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses.   the manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production.   these problems can include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control (including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing), shortages of qualified personnel, and compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. if our third-party contract manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their obligations or under applicable regulations, our ability to provide product candidates to patients in our clinical trials or commercially would be jeopardized. if we file an application for marketing approval of the product and the fda grants marketing approval, any delay or interruption in the supply of product could delay the commercial launch of the product or impair our ability to meet demand for the product. difficulties in supplying products for clinical trials could increase the costs associated with our clinical trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new trials or qualify new manufacturers at significant additional expense, possibly causing commercial delays or termination of the trials.   our products can only be manufactured in a facility that has undergone a satisfactory inspection by the fda and other relevant regulatory authorities. for these reasons, we may not be able to replace manufacturing capacity for our products quickly if we or our contract manufacturer(s) were unable to use manufacturing facilities as a result of a fire, natural disaster (including an earthquake), equipment failure, or other difficulty, or if such facilities were deemed not in compliance with the regulatory requirements and such non-compliance could not be rapidly rectified. an inability or reduced capacity to manufacture our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.   we are subject to substantial government regulation, which could materially adversely affect our business. if we do not receive regulatory approvals, we may not be able to develop and commercialize our technologies.   19     we need fda approval to market our proposed epinephrine pfs product and other products in the united states, and similar approvals from foreign regulatory authorities to market products outside the united states. the production and marketing of our products and potential products and our ongoing research and development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trial activities are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities in the united states and will face similar regulation and review for overseas approval and sales from governmental authorities outside of the united states. the regulatory review and approval process, which may include evaluation of preclinical studies and clinical trials of our products, as well as the evaluation of manufacturing processes and contract manufacturers’ facilities, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. we have limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. many of the product candidates that we are currently developing must undergo rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process before they can be marketed. this process makes it longer, more difficult and more costly to bring our potential products to market, and we cannot guarantee that any of our potential products will be approved. many products for which fda approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing. in addition to testing and approval procedures, extensive regulations also govern marketing, manufacturing, distribution, labeling, and record-keeping procedures. if we or our collaboration partners do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such violations could result in non-approval, suspensions of regulatory approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecution.   regulatory authorities generally have substantial discretion in the approval process and may either refuse to accept an application, or may decide after review of an application that the data submitted is insufficient to allow approval of the proposed product. if regulatory authorities do not accept or approve our applications, they may require that we conduct additional clinical, preclinical or manufacturing studies and submit that data before regulatory authorities will reconsider such application. we may need to expend substantial resources to conduct further studies to obtain data that regulatory authorities believe is sufficient. depending on the extent of these studies, approval of applications may be delayed by several years, or may require us to expend more resources than we may have available. it is also possible that additional studies may not suffice to make applications approvable. if any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to abandon our applications for approval.   failure to obtain fda or other required regulatory approvals, or withdrawal of previous approvals, would adversely affect our business. even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval may entail limitations on uses for which the product may be labeled and promoted, or may prevent us from broadening the uses of products for different applications.   following regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and restrictions, which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize our potential products.   with regard to our drug candidates, if any, approved by the fda or by another regulatory authority, we are held to extensive regulatory requirements over product manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping. regulatory approvals may also be subject to significant limitations on the indicated uses or marketing of the drug candidates. potentially costly follow-up or post-marketing clinical studies may be required as a condition of approval to further substantiate safety or efficacy, or to investigate specific issues of interest to the regulatory authority. previously unknown problems with the drug candidate, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the drug, and could include withdrawal of the drug from the market. in addition, the law or regulatory policies governing pharmaceuticals may change. new statutory requirements may be enacted or additional regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our drug candidates. we cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the united states or elsewhere. if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our drugs and our business could suffer.   we intend to pursue section 505(b)(2) regulatory approval filings with the fda for our products where applicable. such filings involve significant costs, and we may also encounter difficulties or delays in obtaining regulatory approval for our products.   we intend to pursue a section 505(b)(2) regulatory filing with the fda in connection with our epinephrine pfs, apc-1000, apc-3000 and apc-5000 dpi products and product candidates. a section 505(b)(2) nda is a special type of nda that enables the applicant to rely, in part, on the fda’s findings of safety and efficacy of an existing previously approved product, or published literature, in support of its application. section 505(b)(2) ndas often provide an alternate path to fda approval for new or improved formulations or new uses of previously approved products. such filings involve significant filing costs, including filing fees.   to the extent that a section 505(b)(2) nda relies on clinical trials conducted for a previously approved drug product or the fda’s prior findings of safety and effectiveness for a previously approved drug product, the section 505(b)(2) applicant must submit patent certifications in its section 505(b)(2) application with respect to any patents for the previously approved product on which the applicant’s application relies and that are listed in the fda’s approved drug products with therapeutic equivalence evaluations, commonly known as the orange book. specifically, the applicant must certify for each listed patent that, in relevant part, (1) the required patent information has not been filed; (2) the listed patent has expired; (3) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is not sought until after patent expiration; or (4) the listed patent is invalid, unenforceable or will not be infringed by the proposed new product. a certification that the new product will not infringe the previously approved product’s listed patent or that such patent is invalid or unenforceable is known as a paragraph iv certification. if the applicant does not challenge one or more listed patents through a paragraph iv certification, the fda will not approve the section 505(b)(2) nda application until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired.   20     if the section 505(b)(2) nda applicant has provided a paragraph iv certification to the fda, the applicant must also send notice of the paragraph iv certification to the owner of the referenced nda for the previously approved product and relevant patent holders within 20 days after the section 505(b)(2) nda has been accepted for filing by the fda. the nda and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement suit against the section 505(b)(2) applicant. under the fdca, the filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of receipt of the notification regarding a paragraph iv certification automatically prevents the fda from approving the section 505(b)(2) nda until the earliest to occur of 30 months beginning on the date the patent holder receives notice, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit, or until a court deems the patent unenforceable, invalid or not infringed.   if we rely in our section 505(b)(2) regulatory filings on clinical trials conducted, or the fda’s prior findings of safety and effectiveness, for a previously approved drug product that involves patents referenced in the orange book, then we will need to make the patent certifications or the paragraph iv certification described above. if we make a paragraph iv certification and the holder of the previously approved product that we referenced in our application initiates patent litigation within the time periods described above, then any fda approval of our 505(b)(2) application would be delayed until the earlier of 30 months, resolution of the lawsuit, or the other events described above. accordingly, our anticipated dates of commercial introduction of our epinephrine pfs product and or other products would be delayed. in addition, we would incur the expenses, which could be material, involved with any such patent litigation. as a result, we may invest a significant amount of time and expense in the development of our product only to be subject to significant delay and patent litigation before our product may be commercialized, if at all.   in addition, even if we submit a section 505(b)(2) application, such as we have submitted for the epinephrine pfs product and as we may submit for other future products, that relies on clinical trials conducted for a previously approved product where there are no patents referenced in the orange book for such other product with respect to which we have to provide certifications, we are subject to the risk that the fda could disagree with our reliance on the particular previously approved product that we chose to rely on, conclude that such previously approved product is not an acceptable reference product, and require us instead to rely as a reference product on another previously approved product that involves patents referenced in the orange book, requiring us to make the certifications described above and subjecting us to additional delay, expense and the other risks described above.   if we fail to obtain acceptable prices or appropriate reimbursement for our products, our ability to successfully commercialize our products will be impaired.   government and insurance reimbursements for healthcare expenditures play an important role for all healthcare providers, including physicians and pharmaceutical companies such as adamis, that plan to offer various products in the united states and other countries in the future. physicians and patients may decide not to order our products unless third-party payors, such as managed care organizations as well as government payors such as medicare and medicaid, pay a substantial portion of the price of the products. market acceptance and sales of our products and potential products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations, and other organizations. in the united states, our ability to have our products eligible for medicare, medicaid or private insurance reimbursement will be an important factor in determining the ultimate success of our products. if, for any reason, medicare, medicaid or the insurance companies decline to provide reimbursement for our products, our ability to commercialize our products would be adversely affected.   third-party payors may challenge the price of medical and pharmaceutical products. reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor’s determination that our product candidates are:   • not experimental or investigational; • effective; • medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; • supported by peer-reviewed publications; and • included in clinical practice guidelines.   if purchasers or users of our products and related treatments are not able to obtain appropriate reimbursement for the cost of using such products, they may forego or reduce such use. significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party coverage will be available for any of our products. even if our products are approved for reimbursement by medicare, medicaid and private insurers, of which there can be no assurance, the amount of reimbursement may be reduced at times or even eliminated. this would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   21     legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably.   in both the united states and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been and are expected to be a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably, including the patient protection and affordable care act signed into law in the united states in march 2010. given the enactment of these laws and other federal and state legislation and regulations relating to the healthcare system, it is still too early to determine their impact on the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries and our business. the u.s. congress continues to consider issues relating to the healthcare system, and future legislation or regulations may affect our ability to market and sell products on favorable terms, which would affect our results of operations, as well as our ability to raise capital, obtain additional collaborators or profitably market our products. such legislation or regulation may reduce our revenues, increase our expenses or limit the markets for our products. in particular, we expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to the influence of health maintenance and managed health care organizations and additional legislative proposals.   we have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience.   we have limited experience in the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products. there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with our current collaborators or others to perform such activities or that such efforts will be successful. if we decide to market any products directly, we must either acquire or internally develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. the acquisition or development of a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may not be available to us or, even if available, could divert the attention of our management and key personnel and have a negative impact on further product development efforts.   we may seek to enter into arrangements to develop and commercialize our products. these collaborations, if secured, may not be successful.   we have entered into arrangements with third parties regarding development and commercialization of some of our products and may in the future seek to enter into collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize some of our potential products both in north america and international markets. there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favorable terms or at all or that our current or future collaborative arrangements will be successful. the amount and timing of resources such third parties will devote to these activities may not be within our control. there can be no assurance that such parties will perform their obligations as expected. there can be no assurance that our collaborators will devote adequate resources to our products.   if our potential products are unable to compete effectively with current and future products targeting similar markets as our potential products, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated.   the markets for epinephrine products, our proposed apc-5000 inhaler product and other allergy and respiratory products, and cancer and vaccine products, are intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological progress. we face competition from numerous sources, including major biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies worldwide. many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources, and development, production and marketing capabilities, than we do. certain companies have established technologies that may be competitive with our product candidates and any future products that we may develop or acquire. some of these products may use different approaches or means to obtain results, which could be more effective or less expensive than our products for similar indications. in addition, many of these companies have more experience than we do in pre-clinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing of compounds, obtaining fda and foreign regulatory approvals, and brand name exposure and expertise in sales and marketing. we also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies and private organizations that are conducting research in the same fields.   competition among these entities to recruit and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and professional personnel and consultants is also intense. as a result, there is a risk that one or more of our competitors will develop a more effective product for the same indications for which we are developing a product or, alternatively, bring a similar product to market before we can do so. failure to successfully compete will adversely impact the ability to raise additional capital and ultimately achieve profitable operations.   our product candidates may not gain acceptance among physicians, patients, or the medical community, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenues, which will undermine our future growth prospects.   even if our product candidates are approved for commercial sale by the fda or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product candidate by physicians, health care professionals and third-party payors, and our profitability and growth will depend on a number of factors, including:   • the ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • pricing and cost effectiveness, which may be subject to regulatory control; • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement; • effectiveness of our or our collaborators’ sales and marketing strategy; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; and • availability of alternative treatments.   22     if any product candidate that we develop does not provide a treatment regimen that is at least as beneficial as the current standard of care or otherwise does not provide some additional patient benefit over the current standard of care, that product will not achieve market acceptance and we will not generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability.   if we suffer negative publicity concerning the safety of our products in development, our sales may be harmed and we may be forced to withdraw such products.   if concerns should arise about the safety of any of our products that are marketed, regardless of whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research, such concerns could adversely affect the market for these products. similarly, negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims are supported by applicable law.   our failure to adequately protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to third party patents could materially harm our proprietary position in the marketplace or prevent the commercialization of our products.   our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the united states and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into our technologies and products. the patents and patent applications in our existing patent portfolio are either owned by us or licensed to us. our ability to protect our product candidates from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties depends substantially on our ability to obtain and maintain, or license, valid and enforceable patents. due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved.   there is a substantial backlog of patent applications at the united states patent and trademark office, or uspto. there can be no assurance that any patent applications relating to our products or methods will be issued as patents, or, if issued, that the patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide a competitive advantage. we may not be able to obtain patent rights on products, treatment methods or manufacturing processes that we may develop or to which we may obtain license or other rights. even if we do obtain patents, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for our product candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against our competitors or their competitive products or processes. it is possible that no patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications owned by us or licensed to us. others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents we own or license. alternatively, we may in the future be required to initiate litigation against third parties to enforce our intellectual property rights. the defense and prosecution of patent and intellectual property claims are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. any adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to license disputed rights from others, or require us to cease selling our future products.   in addition, many other organizations are engaged in research and product development efforts that may overlap with our products. such organizations may currently have, or may obtain in the future, legally blocking proprietary rights, including patent rights, in one or more products or methods under development or consideration by us. these rights may prevent us from commercializing technology, or may require us to obtain a license from the organizations to use the technology. we may not be able to obtain any such licenses that may be required on reasonable financial terms, if at all, and we cannot be sure that the patents underlying any such licenses will be valid or enforceable. as with other companies in the pharmaceutical industry, we are subject to the risk that persons located in other countries will engage in development, marketing or sales activities of products that would infringe our patent rights if such activities were conducted in the united states.   our patents also may not afford protection against competitors with similar technology. we may not have identified all patents, published applications or published literature that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our product candidates, by preventing the patentability of our products or by covering the same or similar technologies that may affect our ability to market or license our product candidates. many companies have encountered difficulties in protecting and defending their intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. if we encounter such difficulties or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in either the united states or foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. in addition, because of funding limitations and our limited cash resources, we may not be able to devote the resources that we might otherwise desire to prepare or pursue patent applications, either at all or in all jurisdictions in which we might desire to obtain patents, or to maintain already-issued patents.   we may become involved in patent litigations or other intellectual property proceedings relating to our future product approvals, which could result in liability for damages or delay or stop our development and commercialization efforts.   the pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by significant litigation and other proceedings regarding patents, patent applications, and other intellectual property rights. the situations in which we may become parties to such litigation or proceedings may include any third parties initiating litigation claiming that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights; in such case, we will need to defend against such proceedings. for example, the field of generic pharmaceuticals is characterized by frequent litigation that occurs in connection with the regulatory filings under section 505(b)(2) of the fdca and attempts to invalidate the patent of the reference drug.   23     the costs of resolving any patent litigation or other intellectual property proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. many of our potential competitors will be able to sustain the cost of such litigation and proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. patent litigation and other intellectual property proceedings may also consume significant management time.   in the event that a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights may be costly, difficult, and time-consuming. even if successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be expensive and time-consuming and could divert our management’s attention. we may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patent or other intellectual property rights against a challenge. if we are unsuccessful in enforcing and protecting our intellectual property rights and protecting our products, it could materially harm our business.   we depend on our officers. if we are unable to retain our key employees or to attract additional qualified personnel, our product operations and development efforts may be seriously jeopardized.   our success will be dependent upon the efforts of a small management team and staff, including dennis j. carlo, ph.d., our chief executive officer. the employment of dr. carlo may be terminated at any time by either us or dr. carlo. we currently do not have key man life insurance policies covering any of our executive officers or key employees. if key individuals leave us, we could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel are not quickly recruited. there is competition for qualified personnel in all functional areas, which makes it difficult to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the operation of our business. our success also depends in part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, commercial and administrative personnel. if we are unable to attract new employees and retain existing key employees, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or negatively impacted.   we may experience difficulties in managing growth.   we are a small company. future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, attract, retain, motivate and integrate highly skilled personnel. we may increase the number of employees in the future depending on the progress of our development of our products and technologies. our future financial performance and our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. to that end, we must be able to:   • manage our clinical studies effectively; • integrate additional management, administrative, manufacturing and regulatory personnel; • maintain sufficient administrative, accounting and management information systems and controls; and • hire and train additional qualified personnel.   we may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could harm our financial results.   there are significant limitations on our ability in the future to utilize any net operating loss carry forwards for federal and state income tax purposes.   at march 31, 2014, we had net operating loss carry forwards of approximately $129 million and $58 million for federal and state purposes, respectively. the net operating loss carry forwards expire through the year 2031. at march 31, 2014, we also had research and development credit carry forwards of approximately $2.8 million and $200,000 for federal and state purposes, respectively. the federal credits expire through the year 2027 and the state credits expire through the year 2019. the tax reform act of 1986, as amended, or the tra, provides for a limitation on the annual use of net operating loss and research and development tax credit carry forwards following certain ownership changes that could limit our ability to utilize these carry forwards. we most likely have experienced various ownership changes, as defined by the tra, as a result of past financings and merger transactions. accordingly, our ability to utilize some of all of these carry forwards is likely limited. additionally, u.s. tax laws limit the time during which these carry forwards may be applied against future taxes, and as a result we may not be able to take full advantage of these carry forwards for federal income tax purposes.   risks related to our common stock   provisions of our charter documents could discourage an acquisition of our company that would benefit our stockholders and may have the effect of entrenching, and making it difficult to remove, management.   24     provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would benefit our stockholders. for example, shares of our preferred stock may be issued in the future without further stockholder approval, and upon such terms and conditions, and having such rights, privileges and preferences, as our board of directors may determine, including, for example, rights to convert into our common stock. the rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future. the issuance of our preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. this could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and discourage those investors from acquiring a majority of our common stock. similarly, our bylaws require that any stockholder proposals or nominations for election to our board of directors must meet specific advance notice requirements and procedures, which make it more difficult for our stockholders to make proposals or director nominations. the existence of these charter provisions could have the effect of entrenching management and making it more difficult to change our management. furthermore, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions may prohibit or restrict large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us, unless one or more exemptions from such provisions apply. these provisions under delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future.   the price of our common stock may be volatile.   the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. for example, from april 2012 to june 17, 2014, the market price of our common stock, adjusted retroactively to give effect to our 1-for-17 reverse split of the common stock in december 2013, has fluctuated between $3.74 to $17.85. market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include:   • relatively low trading volume, which can result in significant volatility in the market price of our common stock based on a relatively smaller number of trades and dollar amount of transactions; • the timing and results of our current and any future preclinical or clinical trials of our product candidates; • the entry into or termination of key agreements, including, among others, key collaboration and license agreements; • the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of our product candidates; • the initiation of, material developments in, or conclusion of, litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights; • failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our research and development expenditures; • the results of clinical trials conducted by others on products that would compete with our product candidates; • issues in manufacturing our product candidates or any approved products; • the loss of key employees; • the introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; • future sales of our common stock; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; • publicity or announcements regarding regulatory developments relating to our products; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results, including our cash and cash equivalents balance, operating expenses, cash burn rate or revenue levels; • common stock sales in the public market by one or more of our larger stockholders, officers or directors; • our filing for protection under federal bankruptcy laws; • a negative outcome in any litigation or potential legal proceeding; or • other potentially negative financial announcements, such as a review of any of our filings by the sec, changes in accounting treatment or restatement of previously reported financial results or delays in our filings with the sec.   the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. these broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation.   trading of our common stock is limited.   trading of our common stock is limited, and trading restrictions imposed on us by applicable regulations may further reduce our trading, making it difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares.   prior to the listing of our common stock on the nasdaq capital market, trading of our common stock was conducted on the otcqb. the liquidity of our common stock is limited, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also as it may be adversely affected by delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us, if at all.   25     the foregoing factors may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. in addition, without a large public float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and as a result, the trading price of our common stock may be more volatile. in the absence of an active public trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate his or her investment in our common stock. trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price of our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. we cannot predict the price at which our common stock will trade at any given time.   our common stock may become subject to additional trading restrictions as a “penny stock,” which could adversely affect the liquidity and price of such stock. if our common stock becomes subject to the sec’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected.   prior to the listing of our common stock on the nasdaq capital market, our common stock was traded on the otcqb. the otcqb, the otc bulletin board and pink sheets are viewed by most investors as a less desirable, and less liquid, marketplace. as a result, an investor may find it more difficult to purchase, dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the value of our common stock.   unless our common stock is listed on a national securities exchange, such as the nasdaq capital market, our common stock may also be subject to the regulations regarding trading in “penny stocks,” which are those securities trading for less than $5.00 per share, and that are not otherwise exempted from the definition of a penny stock under other exemptions provided for in the applicable regulations. the following is a list of the general restrictions on the sale of penny stocks:   • before the sale of penny stock by a broker-dealer to a new purchaser, the broker-dealer must determine whether the purchaser is suitable to invest in penny stocks. to make that determination, a broker-dealer must obtain, from a prospective investor, information regarding the purchaser’s financial condition and investment experience and objectives. subsequently, the broker-dealer must deliver to the purchaser a written statement setting forth the basis of the suitability finding and obtain the purchaser’s signature on such statement. • a broker-dealer must obtain from the purchaser an agreement to purchase the securities. this agreement must be obtained for every purchase until the purchaser becomes an “established customer.” • the securities exchange act of 1934, or the exchange act, requires that before effecting any transaction in any penny stock, a broker-dealer must provide the purchaser with a “risk disclosure document” that contains, among other things, a description of the penny stock market and how it functions and the risks associated with such investment. these disclosure rules are applicable to both purchases and sales by investors. • a dealer that sells penny stock must send to the purchaser, within 10 days after the end of each calendar month, a written account statement including prescribed information relating to the security.   these requirements can severely limit the liquidity of securities in the secondary market because fewer brokers or dealers are likely to be willing to undertake these compliance activities. if our common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange, the rules and restrictions regarding penny stock transactions may limit an investor’s ability to sell to a third party and our ability to raise additional capital. we make no guarantee that market-makers will make a market in our common stock, or that any market for our common stock will continue.   our principal stockholders have significant influence over us, they may have significant influence over actions requiring stockholder approval, and your interests as a stockholder may conflict with the interests of those persons.   based on the number of outstanding shares of our common stock held by our stockholders as of march 31, 2014, our directors, executive officers and their respective affiliates owned approximately 23% of our outstanding shares of common stock and our largest stockholder owned approximately 16% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. as a result, those stockholders have the ability to exert a significant degree of influence with respect to the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. the interests of these persons may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. this concentration of ownership could harm the market price of our common stock by (i) delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control, (ii) impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or (iii) discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. the significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise.   in preparing our consolidated financial statements, our management determined that our disclosure controls and procedures, and that our internal controls over financial reporting, were ineffective as of march 31, 2014, which could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. if we continue to fail to comply with the rules under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 related to disclosure controls and procedures, or, if we discover additional material weaknesses and other deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, our stock price could decline and raising capital could be more difficult.   26     our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in rule 13a-15(f) under the exchange act. as of march 31, 2014, our management determined that our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective, and that there was a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, due to insufficient segregation of duties in our finance and accounting function because of limited personnel, based on the absence of finance and accounting personnel other than the chief financial officer. this resulted in not ensuring appropriate segregation of duties between incompatible functions, and made it more difficult to ensure review of financial reporting issues sufficiently in advance of the dates on which filings are required to be made with the sec and to ensure that financial information is adequately analyzed and reviewed on a timely basis to detect misstatements. these above deficiencies represent a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting given that they result in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement to the annual or interim financial statements would not have been prevented or detected. in addition, management determined that our disclosure controls and procedures, and that our internal controls over financial reporting, had several significant deficiencies which did not rise to the level of material weaknesses. because the material weaknesses and significant deficiencies identified by our management will require significant financial resources to address, we expect to continue to experience these material weaknesses and significant deficiencies for the foreseeable future.   we intend to address the weaknesses identified above by increasing the oversight and review procedures of the board of directors with regard to financial reporting, financial processes and procedures and internal control procedures; where possible preparing and reviewing sec filings farther in advance of required filing dates; and when funding is available, hiring additional finance and accounting personnel. nevertheless, there can be no assurances that we will have enough financial resources to remedy our current material weaknesses and significant deficiencies.   if remedial measures that we intend to take are insufficient to address the ineffectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting, or if other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls are discovered or occur in the future and the ineffectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures continues, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations on a timely basis, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements, we could be required to restate our prior period financial results, our operating results may be harmed, and we could become subject to class action litigation. internal control deficiencies and ineffective disclosure controls and procedures could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. we can give no assurance that the measures we plan to take in the future will remediate the ineffectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures or that any material weaknesses or restatements of financial results will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or adequate disclosure controls and procedures or circumvention of these controls. in addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, in the future those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or errors or to facilitate the fair presentation of our consolidated financial statements. if we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our common stock could decline.   our stockholders may experience significant dilution as a result of any additional financing using our securities, as the result of the exercise or conversion of our outstanding securities.   we will need to raise significant additional capital in order to maintain and continue our operations. to the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into or exercisable for equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. in addition, conversion or exercise of other outstanding options, warrants or convertible securities could result in there being a significant number of additional shares outstanding and dilution to our stockholders. certain of our outstanding securities include anti-dilution provision providing that, with certain exceptions, if we issue shares of common stock or options, warrants, convertible securities or other common stock equivalents, at an effective price per share less than the conversion or exercise price of such securities, the conversion or exercise price of such securities (and, in certain circumstances, the number of shares issuable upon exercise or conversion of such securities) will be adjusted downward to equal the per share price of the securities issued in such transaction, entitling the holders to pay a lower per share exercise price and/or to acquire a larger number of shares upon exercise or conversion of such securities, which could result in dilution to our stockholders. as a result, sale of additional equity or convertible securities at prices below certain levels could trigger anti-dilution provisions with respect to certain securities we have previously sold. in addition, if additional funds are raised through the issuance of preferred stock, holders of preferred stock would likely have rights that are senior to the rights of holders of our common stock, and the agreements relating to any such issuance could contain covenants that would restrict our operations.   we have not paid cash dividends on our common stock in the past and do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock.   no cash dividends have been paid on our common stock, and we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. payment of dividends would depend upon our profitability at the time, cash available for those dividends, and other factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. if we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on a stockholder’s investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates.   27     a sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline and may impair our ability to raise capital in the future.   there have been and may continue to be periods when our common stock could be considered “thinly-traded,” meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. finance transactions resulting in a large amount of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, conversion of outstanding convertible notes or exercise of outstanding warrants and sale of the shares issuable upon conversion of such notes or exercise of such warrants, or other events that cause stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. in addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares of common stock to sell the shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. if our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell for various reasons, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate.   sales of additional equity securities may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   we expect to incur research, development and selling, general and administrative costs, and to satisfy our funding requirements we will need to sell additional equity securities, which may be subject to registration rights, and warrants with anti-dilutive protective provisions. the sale or the proposed sale of substantial amounts of our common stock or other equity securities in the public markets may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and our stock price may decline substantially. our stockholders may experience substantial dilution and a reduction in the price that they are able to obtain upon the sale of their shares. also, new equity securities issued may have greater rights, preferences or privileges than our existing common stock.   if securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline.   the trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. we may never obtain substantial research coverage by industry or financial analysts. if no or few analysts commence or continue coverage of us, the trading price of our stock would likely decrease. even if we do obtain analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.   the rights of the holders of common stock may be impaired by the potential issuance of preferred stock.   our restated certificate of incorporation gives our board of directors the right to create new series of preferred stock. as a result, the board of directors may, without stockholder approval, issue preferred stock with voting, dividend, conversion, liquidation or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power and equity interest of the holders of common stock. preferred stock, which could be issued with the right to more than one vote per share, could be utilized as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control. the possible impact on takeover attempts could adversely affect the price of our common stock.   28     item 1b. unresolved