item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company’s business activities. other risks are described in “item 1. business ‑ freight transportation segment ‑ competition, pricing, and industry factors” and “item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.” these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company’s business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks or circumstances actually occurs, it could materially harm the company’s business, financial condition, or results of operations and impair the company’s ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company’s common stock could decline. the transportation industry is affected by business risks that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.   general and industry‑specific factors that could have a negative impact on our performance in the future include, but are not limited to, the following factors, each of which is discussed in further detail in this section: general economic factors and instability in financial and credit markets; an increasingly competitive industry and freight rate environment; unfavorable terms of or the inability to reach an agreement on future collective bargaining agreements or a workforce stoppage by our employees covered under abf freight’s collective bargaining agreement; difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified employees, drivers, and/or dockworkers; loss of key employees; volatile fuel prices as well as the rates of change in associated fuel surcharges, the effect of fuel surcharge changes on securing increases in base freight rates, and the inability to collect fuel surcharges; the inability to obtain sufficient fuel supplies; default on covenants of financing arrangements and the availability and terms of future financing arrangements; shortage of third‑party service providers or our inability to obtain reliable services from third‑parties at reasonable prices; disruptions or failures of services essential to the use of information technology platforms in our business; loss of market share to freight transportation service providers outside the motor carrier sector; increases in the required contributions under abf freight’s collective bargaining agreements with the ibt for wage and/or benefit contributions to multiemployer plans or the assessment of a multiemployer plan withdrawal liability; increasing capital requirements; excess or insufficient capacity resulting from timing of capital investments; increasing costs of maintenance for revenue equipment; increases in new equipment costs and decreases in the amount we are able to obtain for sales of our used equipment; decreases in the availability of new equipment; increases in the frequency and/or the severity of workers’ compensation, third‑party casualty, cargo loss, and/or self‑insurance medical claims; increases in workers’ compensation, third‑party casualty, and/or cargo loss insurance premiums; violation of international, federal, or state regulations and increasing costs for compliance with such regulations; violations and costs of complying with environmental laws or regulations; emissions‑control regulations; risks associated with conducting international business; potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; costs or liabilities associated with legal proceedings; damage to our brands or corporate reputation; unsuccessful implementation or delayed increases in business volumes of our service and growth initiatives and non-asset-based businesses; unsuccessful business acquisitions; a failure of our information systems; cyber incidents; antiterrorism measures; and/or weather or seasonal fluctuations, including any influence of climate change.   we may also be negatively impacted by a sustained interruption in our systems or operations, including, but not limited to, infrastructure damage, the loss of a key location such as a distribution center, or a significant disruption to the electric grid, or by a significant decline in demand for our services, each of which may arise from adverse weather conditions or natural calamities, such as floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, or tornadoes; illegal acts, including terrorist attacks; and/or other market disruptions. the foregoing risks are largely out of our control and any one of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we have a recent history of net losses.   we have incurred a net loss attributable to arkansas best corporation in three of the past five years totaling $7.7 million, $32.7 million, and $127.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, 2010, and 2009, respectively. improvement of our operating results depends upon numerous factors, including our ability to increase tonnage; secure adequate pricing, including fuel surcharges, for our services; forecast and manage our cost structure to business levels, primarily in the area of salaries, wages, and benefits; and grow our non‑asset‑based businesses. we can make no assurances that we will be able to achieve the operating results necessary to improve our profitability in the future. 15 table of contents item 1a. risk factors - continued we are subject to general economic factors and instability in financial and credit markets that are largely beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.   our performance is affected by recessionary economic cycles, downturns in customers’ business cycles, and changes in their business practices. our business is directly affected by levels of industrial production, manufacturing, housing, consumer spending, and capacity in the trucking industry. recessionary economic conditions may result in a general decline in demand for freight transportation and logistics services. economic conditions could adversely affect our customers’ business levels, the amount of transportation services they require, and their ability to pay for our services. customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for uncollectible accounts receivable, and, as a result, we may be required to increase our allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable. the pricing environment generally becomes more competitive during periods of slow economic growth and economic recessions, which adversely affects the profit margin for our services. in addition, customers could reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected.   we depend on suppliers for equipment, parts, and services that are critical to our operations. a disruption in the availability or a significant increase in the cost to obtain these supplies, resulting from the effect of adverse economic conditions or related financial constraints on our suppliers’ business levels, could adversely impact our business and results of operations.   we are affected by the instability in the financial and credit markets that from time to time has created volatility in various interest rates and returns on invested assets in recent years. we have historically been subject to market risk due to variable interest rates, on all or a part of our borrowings under bank credit lines, and continue to be subject to such risk on our accounts receivable securitization program and the secured term loan (“term loan”) outstanding under our credit agreement (“credit agreement”). changes in interest rates may increase our financing costs related to the term loan, future borrowings against our accounts receivable securitization program, additional capital lease or note payable arrangements, or additional sources of financing. furthermore, future financial market disruptions may adversely affect our ability to refinance our credit agreement and accounts receivable securitization program, maintain our letter of credit arrangements or, if needed, secure alternative sources of financing. if any of the financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by economic conditions or disruption to the capital and credit markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to borrow additional funds, and thus have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. our qualified nonunion defined benefit pension plan trust holds investments in equity and debt securities. declines in the value of plan assets resulting from the instability in the financial markets, general economic downturn, or other economic factors beyond our control could further diminish the funded status of the nonunion defined benefit pension plan and potentially increase our requirement to make contributions to the plan. a change in the interest rates used to calculate our funding requirements under the pension protection act (the “ppa”) would impact contributions required to fund our plan. significant plan contribution requirements could reduce the cash available for working capital and other business needs and opportunities. an increase in required pension plan contributions may adversely impact our financial condition and liquidity. substantial future investment losses on pension plan assets would increase pension expense in the years following the losses. investment returns that differ from expected returns are amortized to expense over the remaining active service period of plan participants. in addition, a change in the discount rate used to calculate our obligations for our nonunion defined benefit pension plan and postretirement health benefit plan for financial statement purposes would impact the accumulated benefit obligation and expense for these plans. an increase in expense for these pension and postretirement plans may adversely impact our results of operations. we could also experience losses on investments related to our cash surrender value of variable life insurance policies, which may negatively impact our results of operations.   we are uncertain as to how long we will continue to be impacted by the residual effects of the unfavorable macroeconomic and industry conditions of recent years. continued economic volatility could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. furthermore, it is not possible to predict the effects of armed conflicts, terrorist attacks, or political and/or civil unrest, and subsequent events on the economy or on consumer confidence in the united states or the impact, if any, on our future results of operations or financial condition.   16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors - continued we operate in a highly competitive industry and our business could suffer if we are unable to adequately address downward pricing pressures and other factors that could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete in the transportation industry.   we face significant competition in local, regional, national, and international markets. numerous factors could adversely impact our ability to compete effectively in the transportation and logistics industry, retain our existing customers, or attract new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. these competitive factors include, but are not limited to, the following:   • abf freight competes with many other ltl carriers of varying sizes, including both union and nonunion ltl carriers and, to a lesser extent, with truckload carriers and railroads. our abf logistics businesses compete with domestic and global logistics service providers which compete in one or more segments of the transportation industry. some of our competitors have greater capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages. • our nonunion competitors generally have a lower fringe benefit cost structure for their freight‑handling and driving personnel than union carriers. wage and benefit concessions granted to certain union competitors allow for a lower cost structure than ours and may impact our competitiveness in the ltl industry. • some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which limits our ability to maintain or increase prices. if customers select transportation service providers based on price alone rather than the total value offered, we may be unable to maintain our operating margins or grow tonnage levels. • customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress prices or result in the loss of some business to competitors. • certain of our competitors may offer a broader portfolio of services or more effectively bundle their service offerings, which could impair our ability to maintain or grow our share of one or more markets in which we compete. • competition in the ltl industry from non‑asset‑based logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect customer relationships and prices in our abf freight operations. conversely, our abf logistics and premium logistics & expedited freight services businesses may be adversely impacted if shippers shift business to truckload brokerage companies or asset‑based trucking companies that also offer brokerage services in order to secure access to those companies’ trucking capacity, particularly in times of tight industry‑wide capacity. • the trend toward consolidation in the transportation industry could continue to create larger ltl carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size. abf freight could experience some competitive difficulties if the remaining ltl carriers, in fact, realize advantages because of their size. industry consolidations could also result in our competitors providing a more comprehensive set of services at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on our employees to support our business operations and future growth opportunities. if our relationship with our employees deteriorates or if abf freight is unable to reach agreement on future collective bargaining agreements, we could be faced with labor disruptions or stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reduce our operating results, and place us at a further disadvantage relative to nonunion competitors.   as of december 2013, approximately 76% of abf freight’s employees were covered under the abf nmfa, the collective bargaining agreement with the ibt which extends through march 31, 2018. subsequent to 2013 through the end of the agreement in 2018, the combined contractual wage and benefit contribution rate under the abf nmfa is estimated to increase approximately 2.5% to 3.0% on a compounded annual basis. the terms of future collective bargaining agreements or the inability to agree on acceptable terms for the next contract period may result in a work stoppage, the loss of customers, or other events that could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. we could also experience a loss of customers or a reduction in our potential share of business in the markets we serve if shippers limit their use of unionized freight transportation service providers because of the risk of work stoppages. abf freight operates in a highly competitive industry which consists predominantly of nonunion motor carriers. abf freight’s nonunion competitors have a lower fringe benefit cost structure and less stringent labor work rules, and certain carriers also have lower wage rates for their freight‑handling and driving personnel. wage and benefit concessions granted to certain union competitors also allow for a lower cost structure than that of abf freight. under its current collective bargaining agreement, abf freight continues to pay some of the highest benefit contribution rates in the industry. we have not historically experienced any significant long‑term difficulty in attracting or retaining qualified drivers for abf freight, although short‑term difficulties have been encountered in certain situations, such as periods of significant increases in tonnage levels. difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers or increases in compensation or fringe benefit costs could affect our profitability and our ability to grow. if we 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors - continued are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified drivers, we could incur higher driver recruiting expenses or a loss of business. in addition to difficulties we may experience in driver retention, if we are unable to effectively manage our relationship with the ibt, we could be less effective in ongoing relations and future negotiations, which could lead to operational inefficiencies and increased operating costs.   the driver fleet of our premium logistics & expedited freight services segment is made up of independent owner operators and individuals. we face intense competition in attracting and retaining qualified owner operators from the available pool of drivers and fleets, and we may be required to increase owner‑operator compensation or take other measures to remain an attractive option for owner operators, which may negatively impact our results of operations. if we are not able to maintain our delivery schedules due to a shortage of drivers or if we are required to increase our rates to offset increases in labor costs, our services may be less competitive which could have an adverse effect on our business.   our management team is an important part of our business and loss of key employees could impair our success.   we benefit from the leadership and experience of our senior management team and other key employees and depend on their continued services to successfully implement our business strategy. the unexpected loss of key employees could have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability if we are unable to secure replacement personnel that have sufficient experience in our industry and in the management of our business. if we are unable to continue to develop and retain a core group of management personnel and execute succession planning strategies, our business could be negatively impacted in the future.   we depend heavily on the availability of fuel for our trucks. fuel shortages, increases in fuel costs, and the inability to collect fuel surcharges or obtain sufficient fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.   the transportation industry is dependent upon the availability of adequate fuel supplies. we have not experienced a lack of available fuel but could be adversely impacted if a fuel shortage develops. a disruption in our fuel supply resulting from natural or man‑made disasters, armed conflicts, terrorist attacks, actions by producers, or other factors that are beyond our control could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we maintain fuel storage and pumping facilities at many of our terminals; however, we may experience shortages in the availability of fuel at certain locations and may be forced to incur additional expense to ensure adequate supply on a timely basis to prevent a disruption to our service schedules.   our freight transportation and premium logistics & expedited freight services segments charge a fuel surcharge based on changes in diesel fuel prices compared to a national index. although revenues from fuel surcharges generally more than offset increases in direct diesel fuel costs, other operating costs have been, and may continue to be, impacted by fluctuating fuel prices. the total impact of higher energy prices on other nonfuel‑related expenses is difficult to ascertain. we cannot predict, with reasonable certainty, future fuel price fluctuations, the impact of higher energy prices on other cost elements, recoverability of higher fuel costs through fuel surcharges, the effect of fuel surcharges on our overall rate structure, or the total price that we will receive from our customers.   fuel prices have fluctuated significantly in recent years. during periods of changing diesel fuel prices, the fuel surcharge and associated direct diesel fuel costs also vary by different degrees. depending upon the rates of these changes and the impact on costs in other fuel‑ and energy‑related areas, operating results could be impacted. whether fuel prices fluctuate or remain constant, operating results may be adversely affected if competitive pressures limit our ability to recover fuel surcharges. throughout 2013, the fuel surcharge mechanism generally continued to have market acceptance among abf freight’s customers, although certain nonstandard arrangements have limited the amount of fuel surcharge recovered. during periods of increasing fuel costs, the negative impact on operating margins of capped fuel surcharge revenue is more evident as fuel prices remain above maximum levels recovered through the fuel surcharge mechanism on certain accounts. while the fuel surcharge is one of several components in our overall rate structure, the actual rate paid by customers is governed by market forces based on value provided to the customer. when fuel surcharges constitute a higher proportion of the total freight rate paid, our customers are less receptive to increases in base freight rates. prolonged periods of inadequate base rate improvements could adversely impact operating results as elements of costs, including contractual wage rates, continue to increase.   higher fuel prices cause customers of our emergency & preventative maintenance segment to seek cost savings throughout their businesses which may result in a reduction of miles driven and/or a deferral of maintenance practices that may reduce the volume of our maintenance service events, resulting in an adverse impact on the segment’s operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 18 table of contents item 1a. risk factors - continued we do not have any long‑term fuel purchase contracts or any hedging arrangements to protect against fuel price increases. significant changes in diesel fuel prices and the associated fuel surcharge may increase volatility in our fuel surcharge revenue and fuel‑related costs. significant increases in fuel prices or fuel taxes resulting from economic or regulatory changes, supply and demand imbalances, actions by producers, or other factors that are out of our control which are not offset by base freight rate increases or fuel surcharges could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.   our credit agreement and accounts receivable securitization program contain financial and other restrictive covenants with which we may be unable to comply. a default under these financing arrangements or changes in regulations which impact the availability of funds or our costs to borrow under our financing arrangements could cause a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.   the term loan outstanding under our credit agreement is secured by a lien on certain of our assets and pledges of the equity interests in certain subsidiaries. our credit agreement contains conditions, representations and warranties, events of default, and indemnification provisions that are customary for financings of this type including, but not limited to, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a maximum adjusted leverage ratio, and limitations on incurrence of debt, investments, liens on assets, transactions with affiliates, mergers, consolidations, and purchases and sales of assets. our accounts receivable securitization program contains representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, and events of default that are customary for financings of this type, including a maximum adjusted leverage ratio and maintaining certain characteristics of the receivables, such as rates of delinquency, default, and dilution.  if we default under the terms of these facilities and fail to obtain appropriate amendments to or waivers under the applicable financing arrangement, our borrowings against the facilities could be immediately declared due and payable. if we fail to pay the amount due, the lenders could proceed against the collateral by which our term loan is secured, our borrowing capacity may be limited, or the facilities could be terminated. if acceleration of outstanding borrowings occurs or if the facilities are terminated, we may have difficulty borrowing additional funds sufficient to refinance the accelerated debt or entering into new credit or debt arrangements, and, if available, the terms of the financing may not be acceptable. certain proposed regulations applicable to financial institutions, if enacted, could affect the future availability of funds under our accounts receivable securitization program or significantly increase our costs to maintain or borrow against the facility. a default under our credit agreement or accounts receivable securitization program or changes in regulations which impact the availability of funds or our costs to borrow under our financing arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.   we depend on services provided by third parties and increased costs or disruption of these services could adversely affect our operations.   a reduction in the availability of rail services or services provided by agents to meet customer requirements could increase abf freight’s purchased transportation costs which we may be unable to pass along to our customers. if a disruption in transportation services from our rail or other third‑party service providers occurred, we could be faced with business interruptions that could cause us to fail to meet the needs of our abf freight customers. if these situations occurred, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted.   the inability to obtain the services of reliable third parties at competitive prices; the shortage of quality third‑party providers; equipment shortages, particularly among contracted truckload or expedite carriers; or a significant interruption in service or stoppage in third‑party transportation services could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of our non‑asset‑based businesses. third‑party providers can be expected to increase their prices based on market conditions or to cover increases in operating expenses. these providers are subject to industry regulations which may have a significant impact on their operations, causing them to increase prices or exit the industry. increased industry demand for these transportation services may reduce available capacity and such a reduction or other changes in these services offered by third parties may increase pricing. if we are unable to correspondingly increase the prices we charge to our customers, or if we are unable to secure sufficient third‑party services to meet our commitments to our customers, there could be a material adverse impact on the operations, revenues, and profitability of our non‑asset‑based businesses.   19 table of contents item 1a. risk factors - continued costs incurred and/or loss of business associated with disruptions or failures of essential services upon which our information technology platforms rely could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   our business requires the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems and infrastructure, including our proprietary information technology platforms. our information technology systems also depend upon the internet, global communications providers, satellite‑based communications systems, the electric grid, electric utility providers, and telecommunications providers. we have no control over the operation, quality, or maintenance of these services or whether vendors will improve their services or continue to provide services that are essential to our business. disruptions or failures in the services upon which our information technology platforms rely may adversely affect the services we provide, which could increase our costs or result in a loss of customers that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation.   our business could be adversely impacted by increased competition from freight transportation service providers outside the motor carrier freight transportation industry.   in addition to ltl and truckload motor carriers, we compete against other freight transportation service providers, including railroads, which have recently experienced growth due to general economic improvement and a conversion of truckload to intermodal shipping. certain challenges specific to the motor carrier freight transportation industry, such as the competitive freight rate environment; capacity restraints in times of growing freight volumes; increased costs and potential shortages of commercial truck drivers; potential changes to driver hours‑of‑service requirements; increased costs of fuel and other operating expenses; and costs of compliance with existing and potential legal and environmental regulations could result in the service offerings of other freight transportation service providers being more competitive. our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted if railroads or other freight transportation sectors increase their share of the market for our services. we could be obligated to make additional significant contributions to multiemployer pension plans.   abf freight contributes to multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans to provide benefits for its contractual employees. abf freight’s contributions generally are based on the time worked by its contractual employees, in accordance with its collective bargaining agreement with the ibt, and other related supplemental agreements. the multiemployer plans to which abf freight contributes, which have been established pursuant to the taft‑hartley act, are jointly‑trusteed (half of the trustees of each plan are selected by the participating employers, the other half by the ibt) and cover collectively‑bargained employees of multiple unrelated employers. due to the inherent nature of multiemployer plans, there are risks associated with participation in these plans that differ from single‑employer plans. assets received by the plans are not segregated by employer, and contributions made by one employer can be and are used to provide benefits to current and former employees of other employers. if a participating employer to a multiemployer plan no longer contributes to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be borne by the remaining participating employers. if a participating employer in a multiemployer pension plan completely withdraws from the plan, it owes to the plan its proportionate share of the plan’s unfunded vested benefits, referred to as a withdrawal liability. a complete withdrawal generally occurs when the employer permanently ceases to contribute to the plan. a withdrawal liability is also owed in the event the employer withdraws from a plan in connection with a mass withdrawal, which generally occurs when all or substantially all employers withdraw from the plan pursuant to an agreement in a relatively short period of time. were abf freight to completely withdraw from certain multiemployer pension plans, whether in connection with a mass withdrawal or otherwise, under current law, it would have material liabilities for its share of the unfunded vested liabilities of each such plan. however, abf freight currently has no intention to withdraw from any such plan, which generally would be effected through collective bargaining. the 25 multiemployer pension plans to which abf freight contributes vary greatly in size and in funded status. abf freight’s contribution obligations to these plans are specified in the abf nmfa, which was implemented on november 3, 2013 and will remain in effect through march 31, 2018. the funding obligations to the multiemployer pension plans are intended to satisfy the requirements imposed by the pension protection act of 2006 (the “ppa”). among other things, the ppa requires that “endangered” (generally less than 80% funded and commonly called “yellow zone”) plans adopt “funding improvement plans” and that “critical” (generally less than 65% funded and commonly called “red zone”) plans adopt “rehabilitation plans” that are intended to improve the plan’s funded status over time. through the term of its current collective bargaining agreement, abf freight’s contribution obligations generally will be satisfied by making the specified contributions when due. however, we cannot determine with any certainty the contributions that will be required under future collective bargaining agreements for its contractual employees. in addition, notwithstanding any collective bargaining agreement, employer contribution obligations to multiemployer pension plans can be increased if the plan enters reorganization status or becomes insolvent. in those events, the contribution 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors - continued increase generally cannot exceed 7% per year. abf freight has not received notification of any plan reorganization or plan insolvency. several of the multiemployer pension plans to which abf freight contributes are underfunded and, in some cases, significantly underfunded. the underfunded status of these plans developed over many years, and we believe that an improved funded status will also take time to be achieved. in addition, the highly competitive industry in which we operate could impact the viability of contributing employers. the reduction or loss of contributions by member employers, the impact of market risk on plan assets and liabilities, and the effect of any one or combination of the aforementioned business risks, which are outside our control, have the potential to adversely affect the funded status of the multiemployer pension plans, potential withdrawal liabilities, and our future contribution requirements. we believe that the trustees of these funds will take appropriate measures to fulfill their fiduciary duty to preserve the integrity of the plans, or in certain cases, to extend the solvency of the funds by utilizing a combination of several possible initiatives as they have done in the past. furthermore, additional legislative changes or action taken by governmental agencies could provide relief. however, we cannot make any assurances regarding these issues. based on the most recent annual funding notices we have received, most of which are for plan years ended december 31, 2012, approximately 63% of abf freight’s contributions to multiemployer pension plans are made to plans that are in “critical status,” including the central states, southeast and southwest areas pension plan (the “central states pension plan”), and approximately 3% of our contributions are made to plans that are in “endangered status,” as defined by the ppa. approximately one‑half of abf freight’s multiemployer pension contributions were made to the central states pension plan. the funded percentage of the central states pension plan, as set forth in information provided by the central states pension plan, was 47.6%, 53.9%, and 58.9% as of january 1, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. in 2005, the irs granted an extension of the period of time over which the central states pension plan amortizes unfunded liabilities by ten years, subject to the condition that a targeted funding ratio is maintained by the plan. based on information currently available to us, the central states pension plan has not received notice of revocation of the ten‑year amortization extension granted by the irs. in the unlikely event that the irs revokes the extension, the revocation would apply retroactively to the 2004 plan year, which would result in a material liability for abf freight’s share of the resulting funded deficiency, the extent of which is currently unknown to us. we believe that the occurrence of a revocation that would require recognition of liabilities for abf freight’s share of a funded deficiency is remote.   we have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect profitability and growth if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or properly forecast capital needs to correspond with business volumes.   we have significant ongoing capital requirements. if we are not able to generate sufficient cash from operations in the future, our growth could be limited; it may be necessary for us to utilize our existing financing arrangements to a greater extent or enter into additional leasing or financing arrangements; or our revenue equipment may have to be held for longer periods, which would result in increased expenditures for maintenance. forecasting business volumes involves many factors, including general economic trends and the impact of competition, which are subject to uncertainty and beyond our control. if we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, especially for revenue equipment, in relation to corresponding business levels, we could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity. if we were unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or unable to properly forecast capital needs, there could be an adverse effect on our operations and profitability.   increased prices for new revenue equipment and decreases in the value of used revenue equipment could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows.   in recent years, manufacturers have raised the prices of new revenue equipment significantly due to increased costs of materials and, in part, to offset their costs of compliance with new tractor engine and emissions system design requirements mandated by the epa, which are intended to reduce emissions. the latest epa engine and emissions system design requirements became effective for engines built beginning january 1, 2010. a number of states have mandated, and states may continue to individually mandate, additional emission‑control requirements for equipment which could increase equipment costs for entire fleets that operate in interstate commerce. further equipment price increases may result from these federal and state requirements. in addition, greenhouse gas emissions regulations are likely to impact equipment design and cost. if new equipment prices increase more than anticipated, we could incur higher depreciation and rental expenses than anticipated. if we are unable to fully offset any such increases in expenses with freight rate increases, our results of operations could be adversely affected. during prolonged periods of decreased tonnage levels, we may make strategic fleet reductions in our abf freight operations which could adversely impact our operating results. in addition, other trucking companies may reduce fleet levels during recessionary economic cycles, which could result in an increase in the supply of used equipment. if market prices for used revenue 21 table of contents item 1a. risk factors - continued equipment decline, corresponding decreases in our established salvage values on equipment being used in our abf freight operations would increase our depreciation expense, and we could incur impairment losses on assets held for sale which could have an adverse effect our results of operations and cash flows.   decreases in the availability of new tractors and trailers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.   we may face difficulty in purchasing new equipment due to decreased supply. from time to time, some original equipment manufacturers (“oems”) of tractors and trailers may reduce their manufacturing output due, for example, to lower demand for their products in economic downturns or a shortage of component parts. component suppliers may either reduce production or be unable to increase production to meet oem demand, creating periodic difficulty for oems to react in a timely manner to increased demand for new equipment and/or increased demand for replacement components as economic conditions change. at times, market forces may create market situations in which demand outstrips supply. in those situations, we may face reduced supply levels and/or increased acquisition costs. an inability to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors or trailers for our abf freight operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   ongoing claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.   claims may be asserted against us for accidents or for cargo loss or damage occurring in abf freight’s operations. claims may also be asserted against us for accidents involving the operations of third‑party service providers that we utilize for our non‑asset‑based segments, for our actions in retaining their services, or for loss or damage to our customers’ goods for which we are determined to be responsible. such claims against us may not be covered by insurance policies or may exceed the amount of insurance coverage, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. our current self‑insurance retention levels are generally $1.0 million for each workers’ compensation loss, generally $1.0 million for each third‑party casualty loss, and $1.0 million for each cargo loss. certain motor carrier subsidiaries of the company other than abf freight are insured but have lower deductibles on their policies. our self‑insurance retention levels for medical benefits are $275,000 per person, per claim year. we maintain insurance for liabilities above the amounts of self‑insurance to certain limits. if the frequency and/or severity of claims increase, our operating results could be adversely affected. the timing of the incurrence of these costs could significantly and adversely impact our operating results. significant increases in health care costs related to medical inflation, claims experience, current and future federal and state laws and regulations, and other cost components that are beyond our control could significantly increase the costs of our self‑insured medical plans and postretirement medical costs, or require us to adjust the level of benefits offered to our employees. in addition, if we lose our ability to self‑insure for any significant period of time, insurance costs could materially increase and we could experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of insurance coverage in that event.   we are required by certain states in which we are self‑insured to provide collateral for workers’ compensation and third‑party casualty claims liabilities. we have agreements with certain financial institutions to provide collateralized facilities for the issuance of letters of credit that require cash or short‑term investments to be pledged as collateral for the outstanding letters of credit. we also have the ability to issue letters of credit against our accounts receivable securitization program. these otherwise unsecured letters of credit have the effect of reducing borrowing availability under that facility. in addition, we have programs in place with multiple surety companies for the issuance of partially secured or unsecured surety bonds in support of our self‑insurance program. certain surety bonds are collateralized by restricted short‑term investments in certificates of deposit. estimates made by the states and the surety companies of our future exposure for our self‑insurance liabilities could influence the amount and cost of additional letters of credit and surety bonds required to support our self‑insurance program, which could increase the amount of our cash equivalents and short‑term investments restricted for use and unavailable for operational or capital requirements.   increased insurance premium costs could have an adverse effect on our operating results. our recent insurance renewals did not result in significant changes in premiums; however, insurance carriers may increase premiums for many companies, including transportation companies, in the coming years. we could also experience additional increases in our insurance premiums in the future if our claims experience worsens. if our insurance or claims expense increases and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be adversely affected. furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position.   22 table of contents item 1a. risk factors - continued our businesses are subject to numerous operating regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liability for violations of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.   various federal and state agencies exercise broad regulatory powers over the transportation industry, generally governing such activities as operations of and authorization to engage in motor carrier freight transportation, operations of non‑vessel‑operating common carriers, safety, contract compliance, insurance requirements, tariff and trade policies, employment practices, taxation, and financial reporting. we could become subject to new or more restrictive regulations, such as regulations relating to engine emissions, drivers’ hours of service, occupational safety and health, ergonomics, or cargo security. compliance with such regulations could substantially reduce equipment productivity, and the costs of compliance could increase our operating expenses.   the dot rules regulating driving time for commercial truck drivers have had a minimal impact upon our operations. the effective date of the current hours‑of‑service rules was february 27, 2012 with a july 1, 2013 compliance date for selected provisions. implementation of the new hours‑of‑service rules has had a slightly negative impact on abf freight’s fleet utilization. future changes in these rules could have further adverse effects on our operating efficiency and increase costs. our drivers and dockworkers also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the dot, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours of service. the tsa has adopted regulations that require all drivers who carry hazardous materials to undergo background checks by the federal bureau of investigation when they obtain or renew their licenses.   csa regulations could potentially result in a loss of business to other carriers, driver shortages, increased costs for qualified drivers, and driver and/or business suspension for noncompliance. a resulting decline in the availability of qualified drivers, coupled with additional personnel required to satisfy future revisions to hours‑of‑service regulations, could adversely impact our ability to hire drivers to adequately meet current or future business needs. shippers may be influenced by the publicly‑available scores in selecting a carrier to haul their freight and, although abf freight is recognized in the industry for its commitment to safety, carriers with better csa scores may be selected in certain cases. unsatisfactory csa scores could result in a dot intervention or audit, resulting in the assessment of fines, penalties, or a downgrade of our safety rating. failures to comply with dot safety regulations or downgrades in our safety rating could have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial condition. a downgrade in our safety rating could cause us to lose the ability to self‑insure. the loss of our ability to self‑insure for any significant period of time could materially increase insurance costs or we could experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of insurance coverage. for the global operations of our domestic & global transportation management segment, we are licensed as an ocean freight forwarder by and registered as an ocean transportation intermediary with the federal maritime commission. the federal maritime commission has established qualifications for shipping agents, including surety bonding requirements. the federal maritime commission also is responsible for the economic regulation of non‑vessel operating common carriers that contract for space and sell that space to commercial shippers and other non‑vessel operating common carriers for freight originating or terminating in the u.s. if we fail to comply with the regulations of the fmc, we may be subject to penalties or revocation of our permits or licenses, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of global logistics operations. there can be no assurance that legislative, judicial, or regulatory authorities will not introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations resulting in the reclassification of the owner operators of our premium logistics & expedited freight services segment as employees. many states have initiated enforcement programs to evaluate the classification of independent contractors, and class actions and other lawsuits have arisen in our industry seeking to reclassify independent contractor drivers as employees for a variety of purposes, including workers’ compensation, wage‑and‑hour, and health care coverage. in the event of such reclassification of our owner operators, we could be exposed to various liabilities and additional costs and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. these liabilities and additional costs could include exposure, for both future and prior periods, under federal, state, and local tax laws, and workers’ compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, and employment laws, as well as potential liability for penalties and interest, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   increases in license and registration fees, bonding requirements, or taxes, including federal fuel taxes, or the implementation of new forms of operating taxes on the industry could also have an adverse effect on our operating results. the ongoing development of data privacy laws may require changes to our data security policies and procedures, and the associated costs of the changes required to maintain our compliance with standards in the united states and other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our operating results.   23 table of contents item 1a. risk factors - continued our non‑asset‑based segments utilize third‑party service providers who are subject to similar regulation requirements as previously mentioned. if the operations of these providers are impacted to the extent that a shortage of quality third‑party service providers occurs, there could be a material adverse effect on the operating results and business growth of our non‑asset‑based segments.   our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. the costs of compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations may be significant and could adversely impact our results of operations.   we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials and similar matters. we may transport or arrange for the transportation of hazardous materials and explosives and we operate in industrial areas where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination could occur. we also store fuel in underground and aboveground tanks at some facilities. our operations involve the risks of, among others, fuel spillage or leakage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal. under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for any costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third‑party waste disposal sites, as well as costs associated with the cleanup of accidents involving our vehicles. although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, violations of applicable laws or regulations may subject us to cleanup costs and liabilities in excess of our applicable insurance coverage, including substantial fines, civil penalties, or civil and criminal liability, as well as bans on making future shipments in particular geographic areas, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. in addition, if any damage or injury occurs as a result of our transportation of hazardous materials or explosives, we may be subject to claims from third parties and bear liability for such damage or injury.   concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions, and some form of federal, state, or regional climate change legislation is possible in the future. the company is unable to determine with any certainty the effects of any future climate change legislation. however, emission‑related regulatory actions have historically resulted in increased costs of revenue equipment and diesel fuel, and future legislation, if passed, could result in increases in these and other costs. increased regulation regarding greenhouse gas emissions, including diesel engine emissions and/or total vehicle fuel economy, could impose substantial costs on us that may adversely impact our results of operations. we may also be subject to additional requirements related to customer‑led initiatives or their efforts to comply with environmental programs. until the timing, scope, and extent of any future regulation or customer requirements become known, we cannot predict their effect on our cost structure or our operating results. furthermore, although we are committed to mandatory and voluntary sustainability practices, increased awareness and any adverse publicity about greenhouse gas emissions emitted by companies in the transportation industry could harm our reputation or reduce customer demand for our services. the engines used in our newer tractors are subject to new emissions‑control regulations, which could substantially increase operating expenses.   tractor engines that comply with the epa emission‑control design requirements that took effect on january 1, 2007 are generally less fuel‑efficient and have increased maintenance costs compared to engines in tractors manufactured before these requirements became effective. engine manufacturers have made adjustments to the operating software, since the introduction of these engines, that have resulted in slightly improved fuel economy and some early‑life cycle reduction in maintenance cost per mile in the 2010 epa‑compliant engines compared to the 2007 epa engines; however, the maintenance costs have proven to be markedly higher in comparison to the pre‑2007 epa engines. in addition, abf freight’s costs to acquire and maintain compliant equipment could increase substantially. reduced fuel demand due to improved fuel economy may result in legislative efforts to increase fuel taxes which, if enacted, could significantly increase our costs. if we are unable to offset increases in equipment and maintenance costs with higher freight rates and fuel economy savings, and if we are not able to offset fuel tax increases through reductions in other excise taxes or through increases in the rates we charge our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected.   we are subject to certain risks arising from our international business.   we provide transportation and logistics services to and from international locations and are, therefore, subject to risks of international business, including, but not limited to, changes in the economic strength of certain foreign countries; changes in foreign exchange rates; the ability to secure space on third‑party aircraft, ocean vessels, and other modes of transportation; difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; burdens of complying with a wide variety of international and united states regulations and export and import laws as well as different liability standards and less developed legal systems ; and social, political, and economic instability. 24 table of contents item 1a. risk factors - continued we are also subject to compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act (“fcpa”). failure to comply with the fcpa and local regulations in the conduct of our international business operations may result in legal claims against us. in addition, if we are unable to maintain the customs – trade partnership against terrorism (“c‑tpat”) status of our premium logistics & expedited freight services segment, we may have significant border delays, which could cause our international operations to be less efficient than competitors also operating internationally. we also face additional risks associated with our foreign operations, including restrictive trade policies and imposition of duties, taxes, or government royalties imposed by foreign governments. these and other factors that substantially affect the operations of our international business could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of our global service offerings. our total assets include goodwill and intangibles. if we determine that these items have become impaired in the future, our earnings could be adversely affected.   as of december 31, 2013, we had recorded goodwill of $76.4 million and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of $75.4 million, both primarily as a result of the june 15, 2012 acquisition of panther. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired. goodwill and indefinite‑lived intangible assets are not amortized but rather are evaluated for impairment annually or more frequently, if indicators of impairment exist. finite‑lived intangible assets are also evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. if the impairment evaluations for goodwill and intangible assets indicate the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. our annual impairment evaluations of goodwill and indefinite‑lived intangible assets were performed as of october 1, 2013, 2012, and 2011, and it was determined that there was no impairment of the recorded balances.   panther is evaluated as a separate reporting unit for the impairment assessment of goodwill and intangible assets. significant declines in business levels or other changes in cash flow assumptions or other factors that negatively impact the fair value of the operations of panther could result in impairment and a resulting non‑cash write‑off of a significant portion of our goodwill and intangible assets, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.   we are subject to litigation risks that could result in significant expenditures and have other material adverse effects on our business.   the nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, competitive matters, personal injury, property damage, cargo claims, safety and contract compliance, environmental liability, and other matters. we are subject to risk and uncertainties related to liabilities which may result from the cost of defending against class‑action litigation, such as alleged violations of anti‑trust laws, wage‑and‑hour and discrimination claims, and any other legal proceedings. some or all of our expenditures to defend, settle, or litigate these matters may not be covered by insurance or could impact our cost and ability to obtain insurance in the future. any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. our business reputation and our relationship with our employees may also be adversely impacted by our involvement in legal proceedings. for more information related to the company’s legal proceedings, see note p to the company’s consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10‑k.   25 table of contents item 1a. risk factors - continued if we are unable to maintain our corporate reputation and the abf, panther, and u‑pack brands, our business may suffer.   abf freight is recognized as an industry leader for its commitment to quality, customer service, safety, and technology. our business depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the abf brand as it applies to both abf freight and abf logistics. the panther brand is also synonymous with premium service. service, performance, and safety issues, whether actual or perceived, could adversely impact our customers’ image of the abf companies, panther, and u‑pack and result in the loss of business. adverse publicity regarding labor relations, legal matters, environmental concerns, and similar matters, which are connected to abf freight, whether or not justified, could have a negative impact on our reputation and may result in the loss of customers and our inability to secure new customer relationships as well as hinder the growth of our non-asset-based businesses. our business and our image could also be negatively impacted by a breach of our corporate policies by employees or vendors. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our initiatives to grow our business operations may take longer than anticipated or may not be successful.   developing service offerings requires ongoing investment in personnel and infrastructure, including operating and management information systems. depending upon the timing and level of revenues generated from our growth initiatives, the related results of operations and cash flows we anticipate from these initiatives and additional service offerings may not be achieved. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business, results of operations, and financial position may be adversely affected.   we also face challenges and risks in implementing initiatives to manage our cost structure to business levels. we periodically evaluate and modify the abf freight network to reflect changes in customer demands and to reconcile abf freight’s infrastructure with tonnage levels and the proximity of customer freight, and there can be no assurances that these network changes, to the extent such network changes are made, will result in a material improvement of abf freight’s results of operations. our growth plans place significant demands on our management and operating personnel and we may not be able to hire, train, and retain the appropriate personnel to manage and grow these services. in addition, as we focus on growing our non‑asset‑based businesses, we may encounter difficulties in adapting our corporate structure or in developing and maintaining effective partnerships among our operating segments which could hinder our operational, financial, and strategic objectives. furthermore, we may invest significant resources to enter or expand our services in markets with established competitors, and we may not be able to successfully gain market share which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. we may be unsuccessful in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions.   we evaluate acquisition candidates from time to time and may acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and business. acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. if we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from the operation of an acquired business to offset our acquisition or investment costs. the degree of success of acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and growth opportunities. our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depends in part upon the successful integration of any acquired businesses. the possible difficulties of integration include, among others: retention of customers and key employees; unanticipated issues in the assimilation and consolidation of information, communications, and other systems; difficulties managing businesses that are outside our historical core competency; inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with potentially new markets or geographic areas and new assets and the businesses associated with them; consolidation of corporate and administrative infrastructures; the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; the effect on internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the sarbanes‑oxley act of 2002; and unanticipated issues, expenses, and liabilities. the diversion of the attention of management from our current operations to the acquired operations and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the acquisitions and could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. also, following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. if acquired operations fail to generate sufficient cash flows, we may incur write‑offs of goodwill and intangible and other assets in the future.   26 table of contents item 1a. risk factors - continued our information technology systems are subject to cyber risks, some of which are beyond our control, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position.   we depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems, including communications and data processing systems, in operating our business. these systems consist of proprietary software programs that are integral to the efficient operation of our business. it is important that the data processed by these systems remain confidential, as it often includes competitive customer information, confidential customer transaction data, employee records, and key financial and operational results and statistics. in addition, cyber incidents that impact the availability, reliability, speed, accuracy, or other proper functioning of these systems could have a significant impact on our operations. certain of our software applications are utilized by third parties who provide certain outsourced administrative functions, which may increase the risk of a cybersecurity incident.   we have experienced incidents involving attempted denial of service, malware attacks, and other events intended to disrupt information systems, wrongfully obtain valuable information, or cause other types of malicious events that could have resulted in harm to our business. to date, the systems we have employed have been effective in identifying these types of events at a point when the impact on our business could be minimized. we have made and continue to make significant financial investment in technologies and processes to mitigate these risks, and our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards as well as backup systems considered appropriate by management. however, it is not practicable to protect against the possibility of power loss, telecommunications failures, cybersecurity attacks, and other cyber incidents in every potential circumstance that may arise. our business interruption insurance, which would offset losses up to certain coverage limits in the event of a catastrophe, would not specifically extend to losses arising from a cyber incident. a significant cyber incident, including system failure, security breach, disruption by malware, or other damage, could interrupt or delay our operations, damage our reputation, cause a loss of customers, expose us to a risk of loss or litigation, and/or cause the company to incur significant time and expense to remedy such an event, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position.   our business could be harmed by antiterrorism measures.   as a result of terrorist attacks on the united states, federal, state, and municipal authorities have implemented and may implement in the future various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. although many companies would be adversely affected by any slowdown in the availability of freight transportation, the negative impact could affect our business disproportionately. for example, we offer specialized services that guarantee on‑time delivery. if security measures disrupt the timing of deliveries, we could fail to meet the needs of our customers or could incur increased costs in order to do so. additional security measures may also reduce productivity of our drivers and third‑party transportation service providers, which would increase our operating costs. there can be no assurance that new antiterrorism measures will not be implemented and that such new measures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.   our results of operations could be impacted by seasonal fluctuations or adverse weather conditions.   our operations are impacted by seasonal fluctuations which affect tonnage and shipment levels and, consequently, revenues and operating results. freight shipments and operating costs of the freight transportation and domestic & global transportation management operating segments can be adversely affected by inclement weather conditions. expedited shipments of the premium logistics & expedited freight services segment may decline due to post‑holiday slowdowns during winter months and plant shutdowns during summer months. emergency roadside service events of the emergency & preventative maintenance segment are influenced by seasonal variations and service event volume is generally lower during mild weather conditions. business levels of the household goods moving services segment are generally lower in the non‑summer months when demand for moving services is typically lower. climate change may have an influence on the severity of weather conditions, which could adversely affect our freight shipments and level of services provided by our non‑asset‑based segments and, consequently, our operating results.   27 table of contents item 1a. risk factors - continued provisions of our charter documents and delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and our amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the company or a merger in which the company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the company’s board of directors and management. in addition, because the company is incorporated in delaware, it is governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions could discourage an acquisition of the company or other change in control transaction and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company’s common stock. 28 table of contents item 1b. unresolved