item 1a. risk factors the risks described below, and risks described elsewhere in this form 10-k, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this form 10-k. the risk factors described below and elsewhere in this form 10-k are not the only risks faced by amedisys. our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may also be materially adversely affected by factors that are not currently known to us, by factors that we currently consider immaterial or by factors that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions. if any of the following risks are actually realized, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements under “special caution concerning forward-looking statements.” all forward-looking statements made by us are qualified by the risk factors described below. risks related to reimbursement because a high percentage of our revenue is derived from medicare, reductions in medicare rates, rate increases that do not cover cost increases and/or significant changes to the medicare payment methodology or eligibility requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our net service revenue is primarily derived from medicare, which accounted for 84%, 82% and 85% of our revenue during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. payments received from medicare are subject to changes made through federal legislation. these changes, as further detailed in item 1, “payment for our services,” can include changes to base episode payments and adjustments for home health services, changes to cap limits and per diem rates for hospice services and changes to medicare eligibility and documentation requirements or changes designed to restrict utilization. when such changes are implemented, we must also modify our internal billing processes and procedures accordingly, which can require significant time and expense. any similar changes, including retroactive adjustments, adopted in the future by cms could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. there are continuing efforts to reform governmental health care programs that could result in major changes in the health care delivery and reimbursement system on a national and state level, including changes directly impacting the reimbursement systems for our home health and hospice care centers. though we cannot predict what, if any, reform proposals will be adopted, health care reform and legislation may have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows through decreasing payments made for our services. we could be affected adversely by the continuing efforts of governmental and private third party payors to contain health care costs. we cannot assure you that reimbursement payments under governmental and private third party payor programs, including medicare supplemental insurance policies, will remain at levels comparable to present levels or will be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement pursuant to these programs. these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our hospice operations are subject to two annual medicare caps. if such caps were to be exceeded by any of our hospice providers, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. with respect to our hospice operations, overall payments made by medicare to each provider number (generally corresponding to a hospice care center) are subject to an inpatient cap amount and an overall payment cap, which   13 table of contents are calculated and published by the medicare fiscal intermediary on an annual basis covering the period from november 1 through october 31. if payments received by any one of our hospice provider numbers exceeds either of these caps, we may be required to reimburse medicare for payments received in excess of the caps, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the economic downturn, any deepening of the economic downturn, continued deficit spending by the federal government or state budget pressures may result in a reduction in payments and covered services. adverse developments in the united states could lead to a reduction in federal government expenditures, including governmentally funded programs in which we participate, such as medicare and medicaid. in addition, if at any time the federal government is not able to meet its debt payments unless the federal debt ceiling is raised, and legislation increasing the debt ceiling is not enacted, the federal government may stop or delay making payments on its obligations, including funding for government programs in which we participate, such as medicare and medicaid. failure of the government to make payments under these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, any failure by the united states congress to complete the federal budget process and fund government operations may result in a federal government shutdown, potentially causing us to incur substantial costs without reimbursement under the medicare program, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. as an example, the failure of the 2011 joint select committee to meet its deficit reduction goal resulted in an automatic reduction in medicare home and hospice payments of 2% beginning april 1, 2013. historically, state budget pressures have resulted in reductions in state spending. given that medicaid outlays are a significant component of state budgets, we can expect continuing cost containment pressures on medicaid outlays for our services. in addition, continued unfavorable economic conditions may affect the number of patients enrolled in managed care programs and the profitability of managed care companies, which could result in reduced payment rates and could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. future cost containment initiatives undertaken by private third party payors may limit our future revenue and profitability. our non-medicare revenue and profitability are affected by continuing efforts of third party payors to maintain or reduce costs of health care by lowering payment rates, narrowing the scope of covered services, increasing case management review of services and negotiating pricing. there can be no assurance that third party payors will make timely payments for our services, and there is no assurance that we will continue to maintain our current payor or revenue mix. we are continuing our efforts to develop our non-medicare sources of revenue and any changes in payment levels from current or future third party payors could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to laws and government regulations we are the subject of a number of inquiries by the federal government, any of which could result in substantial penalties against us. we are the subject of a number of inquiries by the federal government, and we have made voluntary disclosures to the federal government concerning several matters, as described below in this paragraph and as described in further detail in part iv, item 15, “note 10, commitments and contingencies.” during the 111th and 112th united states congresses, the senate finance committee conducted an inquiry focused on the major publicly traded home health corporations, relating to our policies and practices regarding home therapy visits and therapy utilization trends. on october 3, 2011, the senate finance committee publicly issued a report titled “staff report on home health and the medicare therapy threshold,” which recommended that cms “must move toward   14 table of contents taking therapy out of the payment model.” following the initiation in may 2010 of the senate finance committee inquiry, we, as well as the other major publicly traded home health care companies, received a notice of formal investigation from the sec accompanied by a subpoena for documents relating to the matters under review by the senate finance committee and other matters involving our operations. we also received civil investigative demands (“cids”) issued by the u.s. department of justice (“doj”) pursuant to the federal false claims act, requiring the delivery of a wide range of documents and information relating to our clinical and business operations, including reimbursement and billing claims submitted to medicare for home health services, and related compliance activities. subsequently, the company and certain current and former employees have received additional cids from doj for information and/or testimony. in may 2012, we made a disclosure to cms under that agency’s stark law self-referral disclosure protocol relating to certain services agreements between a subsidiary of ours and a large physician group. in addition, we made disclosures to various governmental agencies, including, in october 2012 and 2013, to the office of counsel to the inspector general of the united states department of health and human services (the “oig”) pursuant to the oig provider self-disclosure protocol regarding certain clinical documentation issues and eligibility requirements at two hospice care centers and one home health care center. we have reached an agreement in principle to resolve both the u.s. department of justice investigation and the stark law self-referral matter. we have agreed to this tentative settlement without any admission of wrongdoing to resolve these matters and to avoid the uncertainty and expense of protracted litigation. in connection with the settlement, we expect to enter into a corporate integrity agreement with the office of the inspector general – hhs. the agreement in principle covers the period from 2008 through 2010 (with respect to the doj investigation) and the period from 2008 through 2012 (with respect to the stark law self-referral disclosure protocol) and calls for payment of the aggregate sum of $150 million plus interest thereon at a rate of 2.25 percent per annum, as follows: (a) $115 million plus interest thereon to be payable upon execution of the settlement documents, and (b) $35 million plus interest thereon to be payable six months thereafter. in addition, we may incur additional expenses which are not currently estimable related to the settlement agreement and in connection with compliance measures that may be mandated by the corporate integrity agreement. the settlement is subject to a number of contingencies, including agreement upon the scope of the matters released and other material terms, the negotiation and execution of acceptable settlement documents including a corporate integrity agreement, and approval of our board of directors, the doj and the office of inspector general-hhs. we have recorded an accrual of $150 million during the third quarter of 2013 with respect to these matters. we can provide no assurances as to whether we will be able to successfully consummate the settlement. until the settlement actually becomes final, there can be no guarantee that these matters will be resolved on the basis described above, the outcome of these matters will remain uncertain, and the amount required to resolve them could differ materially from the amount accrued. finally, if these matters continue over a long period of time, they could divert the attention of management from the day-to-day operations of our business and impose significant administrative burdens on us. these potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from these investigations or other investigations initiated by the government at any time, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we reach a final settlement of the u.s. department of justice investigation and the stark law self-referral matter, we expect to operate under a corporate integrity agreement. violations of that agreement could result in substantial penalties or exclusion from participation in the medicare program. as explained immediately above, one of the conditions of the agreement in principle to resolve both the u.s. department of justice investigation and the stark law self-referral matter is the entry into a corporate integrity agreement (“cia”) with the office of inspector general-hhs. although the cia has not yet been finalized, it is expected that the term of the cia will be five years, and that the cia will require the company to perform a broad array of compliance-related activities, including the regular auditing of its medicare claims on a random   15 table of contents basis by a third party independent review organization (“iro”). the claims reviews undertaken by the iro could reveal the existence of overpayments made to the company by the medicare program which the company would be required to repay to medicare, including potentially on an extrapolated basis. it is expected that the cia will also contain language that would impose substantial stipulated penalties for violations of the agreement, including the possibility of exclusion from the medicare program. these potential consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. pending civil litigation could have a material adverse effect on the company. we and certain of our current and former directors, senior executives and other employees are defendants in a federal securities class action and an erisa class action. we are also a defendant in several wage and hour law putative collective and class action lawsuits. see part iv, item 15, “note 10, commitments and contingencies” for a more detailed description of these proceedings. these actions remain in preliminary stages and it is not yet possible to assess their probable outcome or our potential liability, if any. we cannot provide any assurances that the legal and other costs associated with the defense of these actions, the amount of time required to be spent by management on these matters and the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our insurance may not cover all of the costs associated with defending the pending federal securities and erisa class actions and the ongoing federal government investigations, and any potential liability costs associated with such matters, and we maintain no insurance that covers any portion of the pending wage and hour putative collective and class action lawsuits. with respect to the pending securities and erisa class actions and the ongoing federal government investigations, we maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance that we believe should cover a portion of the legal costs and potential liability costs associated with certain of these matters. however, such insurance coverage does not extend to all of these expenditures, and the insurance limits may be insufficient even with respect to expenditures that would otherwise be covered. in addition, we may be obligated to indemnify (and advance legal expenses to) both current and former officers, employees and directors in connection with these matters. furthermore, our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage in some or all of these matters, in which case we may have to fund the indemnification amounts owed to such directors and officers ourselves. if our insurance coverage for any or some of these matters is denied or is not adequate, it may have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we do not maintain any insurance that will cover any part of the wage and hour putative collective and class action lawsuits in which we are defendants. we are subject to extensive government regulation. any changes to the laws and regulations governing our business, or to the interpretation and enforcement of those laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our industry is subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations. see part i, item 1, “our regulatory environment” for additional information on such laws and regulations. federal and state laws and regulations impact how we conduct our business, the services we offer and our interactions with patients, our employees and the public and impose certain requirements on us such as:     •   licensure and certification;     •   adequacy and quality of health care services;     •   qualifications of health care and support personnel;     •   quality and safety of medical equipment;     •   confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and claims processing;     •   relationships with physicians and other referral sources;   16 table of contents   •   operating policies and procedures;     •   policies and procedures regarding employee relations;     •   addition of facilities and services;     •   billing for services;     •   requirements for utilization of services;     •   documentation required for billing and patient care; and     •   reporting and maintaining records regarding adverse events. these laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to change. changes in existing laws and regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by:     •   increasing our administrative and other costs;     •   increasing or decreasing mandated services;     •   causing us to abandon business opportunities we might have otherwise pursued;     •   decreasing utilization of services;     •   forcing us to restructure our relationships with referral sources and providers; or     •   requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. additionally, we are subject to various routine and non-routine reviews, audits and investigations by the medicare and medicaid programs and other federal and state governmental agencies, which have various rights and remedies against us if they assert that we have overcharged the programs or failed to comply with program requirements. violation of the laws governing our operations, or changes in interpretations of those laws, could result in the imposition of fines, civil or criminal penalties, and the termination of our rights to participate in federal and state-sponsored programs and/or the suspension or revocation of our licenses. if we become subject to material fines, or if other sanctions or other corrective actions are imposed on us, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our developing palliative care and house call business lines are subject to rules, prohibitions, regulations and reimbursement requirements that differ from those that govern our primary home health and hospice operations. two lines of business that we continue to develop are (i) palliative care, a type of care focused upon relieving pain and suffering in patients who do not quality for, or who have not yet elected, the hospice benefit, and (ii) medical house calls. the continued development of these businesses exposes us to additional risks, in part because these business lines require us to comply with additional federal and state laws and regulations that differ from those that govern our home health and hospice businesses. these lines of business require compliance with different federal and state requirements governing licensure, enrollment, documentation, prescribing, coding, billing and collection of coinsurance and deductibles, among other requirements. for example, these practices are billed to medicare part b, rather than medicare part a, which covers home health and hospice, and utilize nurse practitioners (“nps”), physician assistants (“pas”) and physicians (collectively, with nps and pas, “clinical professionals”). part b differs in many respects from part a, including by requiring the payment and collection of patient deductibles and co-insurance. additionally, some states have prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine and fee-splitting, which generally prohibit business entities from owning or controlling medical practices or may limit the ability of clinical professionals to share professional service income with non-professional or business interests. these requirements may vary significantly from state to state. reimbursement for palliative care and house calls services is generally conditioned on our clinical professionals providing the   17 table of contents correct procedure and diagnosis codes and properly documenting both the service itself and the medical necessity for the service. incorrect or incomplete documentation and billing information, or the incorrect selection of codes for the level and type of service provided, could result in non-payment for services rendered or lead to allegations of billing fraud. further, compliance with applicable regulations may cause us to incur expenses that we have not anticipated, and if we are unable to comply with these additional legal requirements, we may incur liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face periodic and routine reviews, audits and investigations under our contracts with federal and state government agencies and private payors, and these audits could have adverse findings that may negatively impact our business. as a result of our participation in the medicare and medicaid programs, we are subject to various governmental reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with these programs and applicable laws and regulations. we also are subject to audits under various government programs, including the rac, zpic, psc and mic programs, in which third party firms engaged by cms conduct extensive reviews of claims data and medical and other records to identify potential improper payments under the medicare program. private pay sources also reserve the right to conduct audits. if billing errors are identified in the sample of reviewed claims, the billing error can be extrapolated to all claims filed which could result in a larger overpayment than originally identified in the sample of reviewed claims. our costs to respond to and defend reviews, audits and investigations may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. moreover, an adverse review, audit or investigation could result in:     •   required refunding or retroactive adjustment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to the federal or state programs or from private payors;     •   state or federal agencies imposing fines, penalties and other sanctions on us;     •   loss of our right to participate in the medicare program, state programs, or one or more private payor networks; or     •   damage to our business and reputation in various markets. these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if a care center fails to comply with the conditions of participation in the medicare program, that care center could be subjected to sanctions or terminated from the medicare program. each of our care centers must comply with required conditions of participation in the medicare program. if we fail to meet the conditions of participation at a care center, we may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable state surveyor. if that care center then fails to institute an acceptable plan of correction to remediate the deficiency within the correction period provided by the state surveyor, that care center could be terminated from the medicare program or subjected to alternative sanctions. cms outlined its alternative sanction enforcement options through a regulation published in 2012; under the regulation, cms may (i) effective july 1, 2013, impose temporary management, direct a plan of correction, or direct training and (ii) effective july 1, 2014, impose payment suspensions and civil monetary penalties, in each case, upon providers who fail to comply with the conditions of participation. termination of one or more of our care centers from the medicare program for failure to satisfy the program’s conditions of participation, or the imposition of alternative sanctions, could disrupt operations, require significant attention by management, or have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. cms has announced that it is currently revising the medicare conditions of participation for home health care centers across the industry, with an unknown effective date. we do not know at this time what effect the revisions will have on our operations, and there can be no assurances that the revisions will not have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   18 table of contents we are subject to federal and state laws that govern our financial relationships with physicians and other health care providers, including potential or current referral sources. we are required to comply with federal and state laws, generally referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” that prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or other financial arrangements between health care providers that are designed to encourage the referral of patients to a particular provider for medical services. in addition to these anti-kickback laws, the federal government has enacted specific legislation, commonly known as the “stark law,” that prohibits certain financial relationships, specifically including ownership interests and compensation arrangements, between physicians (and the immediate family members of physicians) and providers of designated health services, such as home health care centers, to whom the physicians refer patients. some of these same financial relationships are also subject to additional regulation by states. although we believe we have structured our relationships with physicians and other potential referral sources to comply with these laws where applicable, we cannot assure you that courts or regulatory agencies will not interpret state and federal anti-kickback laws and/or the stark law and similar state laws regulating relationships between health care providers and physicians in ways that will adversely implicate our practices or that isolated instances of noncompliance will not occur. for example, in may 2012, we made a disclosure to cms under that agency’s stark law self-referral disclosure protocol relating to certain services agreements between a subsidiary of ours and a large physician group. violations of federal or state stark or “anti-kickback” laws could lead to criminal or civil fines or other sanctions, including denials of government program reimbursement or even exclusion from participation in governmental health care programs, that could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government health care reform. the health care industry in the united states is subject to fundamental changes due to ongoing health care reform efforts and related political, economic and regulatory influences. in march 2010, comprehensive health care reform legislation was signed into law in the united states through the passage of the patient protection and affordable health care act and the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, “ppaca”). however, it is difficult to predict the full impact of ppaca due to the law’s complexity and current lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, as well our inability to foresee how cms and other participants in the health care industry will respond to the choices available to them under the law. many provisions in ppaca are scheduled to become effective over the next several years, but not all the implementing regulations for these statutory provisions have been published. ppaca makes a number of changes to medicare payment rates and also calls for a rebasing of the home health payment system beginning in 2014 that will be phased in over a four-year period. these reimbursement changes are described in detail in part ii, item 7 “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations: overview – economic and industry factors.” cms added two regulations that became effective april 1, 2011: (1) a face-to-face encounter requirement for home health and hospice services and (2) changes to the home health therapy assessment schedule, which requires additional patient evaluations and certifications. these and other regulations implementing the provisions of the ppaca may similarly increase our costs, decrease our revenues, expose us to expanded liability or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct our business. ppaca also calls for a number of other changes to be made over time that will likely have a significant impact upon the health care delivery system. for example, ppaca mandates creation of a home health value-based purchasing program, the development of quality measures, and decreases in home health reimbursement rates, including rebasing, as further described in part ii, item 7 “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations: overview – economic and industry factors.” in addition, ppaca requires the secretary of health and human services to test different models for delivery of care, some of which will involve home health services. it also requires the secretary to establish a national pilot program for integrated care for patients with certain conditions, bundling payment for acute hospital care, physician services, outpatient   19 table of contents hospital services (including emergency department services) and post-acute care services, which would include home health. in advance of the national pilot program, the newly created cms innovation center is launching the bundled payments for care improvement initiative designed to encourage doctors, hospitals and other health care providers, including home health providers, to work together to better coordinate care for patients both when they are in the hospital and after they are discharged. in october 2011 cms published final medicare shared savings program regulations, which use accountable care organizations (“acos”) to facilitate coordination and cooperation among providers to improve the quality of care for medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries and reduce unnecessary costs. ppaca further directs the secretary to conduct a study to evaluate cost and quality of care among efficient home health care centers and specifically focusing on access to care and treating medicare beneficiaries with varying severity levels of illness, and provide a report to congress no later than march 1, 2014. at this time, it is not possible to predict with any certainty how these initiatives will be implemented and what impact they may have on our business. in addition, various health care reform proposals similar to the federal reforms described above have also emerged at the state level, including in several states which we operate. moreover, in january 2011, the medicare payment advisory commission voted to recommend to congress that it make additional changes to the home health payment system, noting that such recommendations may include further payment reductions and/or a beneficiary copayment obligation. we cannot predict with certainty what health care initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the state level, or what the ultimate effect of federal health care reform or any future legislation or regulation may have on us or on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. finally, in addition to impacting our medicare businesses, ppaca may also significantly affect our non-medicare businesses. ppaca makes many changes to the underwriting and marketing practices of private payors. the resulting economic pressures could prompt these payors to seek to lower their rates of reimbursement for the services we provide. at this time, it is not possible to estimate what impact ppaca may have on our non-medicare businesses. risks related to our growth strategies we may not succeed in our efforts to evolve from a traditional home health and hospice care company to a company focused on bringing home a continuum of care whereby we play a key role in managing our patients’ age-related disease processes from onset through the end of life. if this strategy is not successful, our financial performance could be adversely affected. our long-term strategy is to evolve from a traditional home health and hospice care company to a company focused on bringing home a continuum of care to better serve the needs of our nation’s seniors and diversify our sources of payment so as to become less reliant upon medicare. to this end, we are developing and acquiring new business lines that will complement our existing home care and hospice business and help seniors manage their health more effectively and stay in their homes longer. we are also working to develop or acquire new business lines that are focused on managing our patients’ age-related disease processes from onset through the end of life. these new business lines focus on expanding the range of health care services provided within patients’ homes, including through utilization of house calls physicians, nurse practitioners (“nps”) and physician assistants (“pas”), and developing technology that assists with coordinating patient care, developing new care transition processes and promoting patient education. developing or acquiring new lines of business can be time consuming and expensive, and there can be no assurance that our efforts in these areas will ultimately be successful. further, the development or acquisition of new lines of business requires significant attention from our management team, and if events occur that distract our management’s attention and resources, our business performance could be negatively impacted. in addition, we may expend significant resources to acquire or develop and introduce new business lines that are ultimately not accepted by patients, payors or referral sources for multiple reasons, including, but not limited to, a failure to successfully market the new business lines to patients, payors and referral sources, competition from existing and new competitors and a failure to introduce new business lines in a timely manner. the risks associated with new lines of business could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   20 table of contents our internal growth strategies depend on our ability to maintain and build upon our market positions in geographic areas where we currently have a significant market presence. if our internal growth strategies are unsuccessful, or if we are not able to maintain and build upon our market presence in our leading markets, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we have made a decision to emphasize internal growth by maintaining and building upon our market positions in geographic areas where we currently have a significant market presence. this will likely involve sharing resources among geographically proximate care centers, the continued development and deployment of our specialty programs, continued enhancement of communications with referral sources, opening targeted start-up care centers in existing leading markets and entering into collaborative relationships or joint ventures with health systems and hospitals. if these strategies are unsuccessful it could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face competition for potential collaborative relationships and joint venture candidates, which may limit the number of opportunities available to us. further, we may not be able to identify suitable relationship or joint venture opportunities in the future or any such opportunities, if identified, may not be consummated on favorable terms, if at all. without successful collaborations or joint ventures in markets where we already have a significant market presence, our future growth rates could decline. in addition, any future collaborations or joint ventures, if consummated, may not be successful in achieving further growth and market penetration. we have entered into risk-bearing partnerships with payors and other providers and may enter into additional risk-bearing partnerships in the future. if this strategy is not successful, our financial performance could be adversely affected. the ppaca provides multiple voluntary opportunities for health care providers, including home health providers, to enter into risk-based partnerships designed to encourage participants to assume financial accountability for outcomes and to work together to better coordinate care for patients, both when they are in the hospital and after they are discharged. we view these initiatives as important means to progress toward our long-term strategic plan, improve our clinical capabilities, develop our relationships with hospitals, physicians, managed care payors and other referral sources, and prepare for the possibility that medicare may in the future require us to participate in a capitated or value- based payment system. these initiatives include the cms bundled payments for care improvement initiative (“bpci”), the cms innovation advisors program, the medicare shared savings program (“acos”), the cms innovation center pioneer accountable care organization program (“pioneer acos”), the cms community-based care transitions program and the independence at home demonstration. we are currently participating in two bpci initiatives and three acos. under these programs, we have the ability to receive additional payments if we are able to deliver quality care at a cost that is lower than established benchmarks, but also have the risk of incurring financial penalties if we are not successful in doing so. advancing these initiatives and pursuing additional risk-based partnerships with other health care providers can be time consuming and expensive, and there can be no assurance that our efforts in these areas will ultimately be successful. further, these initiatives require significant attention from our management team, and if events occur that distract our management’s attention and resources, our business performance could be negatively impacted. in addition, if we fail to deliver quality care at a cost consistent with our expectations in connection with these risk-based initiatives, we would be subject to significant financial penalties. these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in connection with our participation in the bpci initiatives, we have entered into various bpci model 3 awardee agreements (“bpci agreements”) with cms, which set forth requirements we must follow with regard to our bpci participation, as well as a program integrity review agreement (“pira”) with cms, which provides, among other things, for an iro review of our services relating to the bpci initiatives. should we fail to perform as required under the bpci agreements or the pira, cms may, among other remedies, terminate our right to participate in the bpci program in whole or in part, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   21 table of contents historically, our external growth strategies have depended on our ability to pursue targeted acquisition opportunities. we may be unable to pursue future acquisition opportunities on favorable terms or at all, which could affect our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historically, our revenue growth has been significantly driven by our acquisition of care centers, or assets of care centers, in targeted markets. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify, negotiate and complete suitable acquisition opportunities on favorable terms or at all, based upon such factors as purchase price, the restrictive covenants under the agreements governing our indebtedness and our own willingness to take on new operations. we also face competition for acquisition candidates. further, pursuing acquisitions could strain our resources, including management, information systems, regulatory compliance, logistics and other controls. this could require us to incur expenses for hiring additional qualified personnel, retaining professionals to assist in developing the appropriate control systems and expanding our information technology infrastructure. the failure to pursue future acquisition activities on favorable terms or at all could affect our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are not able to successfully integrate newly-acquired care centers into our existing operations or if we do not achieve expected benefits from our previous acquisitions, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we may not be able to fully integrate the operations of our acquired businesses with our current business structure in an efficient and cost-effective manner. acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties in recouping partial episode payments and other types of misdirected payments for services from the previous owners; difficulties integrating acquired personnel and business practices into our business; the potential loss of key employees, referral sources or patients of acquired care centers; the delay in payments associated with change in ownership, control and the internal process of the medicare fiscal intermediary; and the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired care centers. further, the financial benefits we expect to realize from many of our acquisitions are largely dependent upon our ability to improve clinical performance, overcome regulatory deficiencies, improve the reputation of the acquired business in the community and control costs. the failure to accomplish any of these objectives or to effectively integrate any of these businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. state efforts to regulate the establishment or expansion of health care providers could impair our ability to expand our operations. some states require health care providers (including skilled nursing facilities, hospice care centers, home health care centers and assisted living facilities) to obtain prior approval, known as a con or poa, in order to commence operations. see part i, item 1, “our regulatory environment” for additional information on cons and poas. if we are not able to obtain such approvals, our ability to expand our operations could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. federal regulation may impair our ability to consummate acquisitions or open new care centers. changes in federal laws or regulations may materially adversely impact our ability to acquire care centers or open new start-up care centers. for example, ppaca authorized cms to impose temporary moratoria on the enrollment of new medicare providers, if deemed necessary to combat fraud, waste or abuse under government programs. the moratoria on new enrollments may be applied to categories of providers or to specific geographic regions. if a moratorium is imposed on the enrollment of new home health or hospice providers in a geographic area we desire to service, it could have a material impact on our ability to open new care centers. additionally, in 2010, cms implemented and amended a regulation known as the “36 month rule” that is applicable to home health care center acquisitions. subject to certain exceptions, the 36 month rule prohibits buyers of certain home   22 table of contents health care centers – those that either enrolled in medicare or underwent a change in majority ownership fewer than 36 months prior to the acquisition – from assuming the medicare billing privileges of the acquired care center. these changes in federal laws and regulations, and similar future changes, may further increase competition for acquisition targets and could have a material detrimental impact on our acquisition strategy. risks related to our operations because we are limited in our ability to control rates received for our services, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if we are not able to maintain or reduce our costs to provide such services. as medicare is our primary payor and rates are established through federal legislation, we have to manage our costs of providing care to achieve a desired level of profitability. additionally, non-medicare rates are difficult for us to negotiate as such payors are under pressure to reduce their own costs. as a result, we manage our costs in order to achieve a desired level of profitability including, but not limited to, centralization of various processes, the use of technology and management of the number of employees utilized. if we are not able to continue to streamline our processes and reduce our costs, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our industry is highly competitive, with few barriers to entry. there are few barriers to entry in home health markets that do not require a con or poa. our primary competition comes from local privately-owned and hospital-owned health care providers. we compete based on the availability of personnel; the quality of services, expertise of visiting staff; and in certain instances, on the price of our services. increased competition in the future may limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share. further, the introduction of new and enhanced service offerings by others, in combination with industry consolidation and the development of strategic relationships by our competitors, could cause a decline in revenue or loss of market acceptance of our services or make our services less attractive. additionally, we compete with a number of non-profit organizations that can finance acquisitions and capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis or receive charitable contributions that are unavailable to us. managed care organizations and other third party payors continue to consolidate, which enhances their ability to influence the delivery of health care services. consequently, the health care needs of patients in the united states are increasingly served by a smaller number of managed care organizations. these organizations generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers. our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if these organizations terminate us as a provider and/or engage our competitors as a preferred or exclusive provider. in addition, should private payors, including managed care payors, seek to negotiate additional discounted fee structures or the assumption by health care providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through prepaid capitation arrangements, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to react competitively to new developments, our operating results may suffer. we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain relationships with existing patient referral sources or to establish new referral sources, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our success depends on referrals from physicians, hospitals and other sources in the communities we serve and on our ability to maintain good relationships with existing referral sources. our referral sources are not contractually obligated to refer patients to us and may refer their patients to other providers. our growth and   23 table of contents profitability depends, in part, on our ability to establish and maintain close working relationships with these patient referral sources and to increase awareness and acceptance of the benefits of home health and hospice care by our referral sources and their patients. our loss of, or failure to maintain, existing relationships or our failure to develop new referral relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to provide consistently high quality of care, our business will be adversely impacted. providing quality patient care is the cornerstone of our business. hospitals, physicians and other referral sources refer patients to us in large part because of the quality of care we provide. clinical quality is becoming increasingly important within our industry. effective october 2012, medicare began to impose a financial penalty upon hospitals that have excessive rates of patient readmissions within 30 days from hospital discharge. we believe this new regulation provides a competitive advantage to home health providers who can differentiate themselves based upon quality, particularly by achieving low patient acute care hospitalization readmission rates and by implementing disease management programs designed to be responsive to the needs of patients served by referring hospitals. we are focused intently upon improving our patient outcomes, particularly our patient acute care hospitalization readmission rates. if we should fail to attain our goals regarding acute care hospitalization readmission rates and other quality metrics, we expect our ability to generate referrals would be adversely impacted, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may close additional underperforming care centers in the future. during 2011, 2012 and 2013, we reviewed the performance of our portfolio of care centers. our review considered the current financial performance, market penetration, forecasted market growth and current and future cms payment revisions. we incurred exit activity costs of approximately $14 million in connection with these closures, including lease termination payments, relocation costs, severance costs and intangible assets write-offs. we will continue to monitor the performance of our existing care centers on an ongoing basis and anticipate that additional closures may from time to time occur in the future. we will incur costs and expenses with any additional closures, which may require us to book significant charges in future periods. while any such closures would be part of our efforts to improve our profitability, they would have a negative impact on our revenue and possibly our operating results over the short-term. our business depends on our information systems. our inability to effectively integrate, manage and keep our information systems secure and operational could disrupt our operations. our business depends on effective, secure and operational information systems which include software that is developed in-house and systems provided by external contractors and other service providers. we have developed and use a proprietary windows™-based clinical software system with our poc system to collect assessment data, schedule and log patient visits, communicate with patients’ physicians regarding their plan of care and monitor treatments and outcomes in accordance with established medical standards. our clinical software system integrates several of the key processes critical to our business: billing and collections functionality; accounting; human resources; payroll; and employee benefits programs provided by third parties. we are currently preparing to implement a major multi-year rollout of a new proprietary clinical software system. problems with, or the failure of, our technology and systems or any system upgrades or programming changes associated with such technology and systems, including any problems we may experience with the implementation of the new proprietary clinical software system, could have a material adverse effect on data capture, medical documentation, billing, collections, assessment of internal controls and management and reporting capabilities. any such problems or failures and the costs incurred in correcting any such problems or failures, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of   24 table of contents operations and cash flows. further, to the extent our external information technology contractors or other service providers become insolvent or fail to support the software or systems we have licensed from them, our operations could be materially adversely affected. our care centers also depend upon our information systems for accounting, billing, collections, risk management, quality assurance, human resources, payroll and other information. if we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be materially adversely affected. our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. our acquisition activity requires transitions and integration of various information systems. we regularly upgrade and expand our information systems’ capabilities. if we experience difficulties with the transition and integration of information systems or are unable to implement, maintain, or expand our systems properly, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches, including unauthorized access to patient data and personally identifiable information stored in our information systems, and the introduction of computer viruses to our systems. our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches and our business operations could be materially adversely affected by federal and state fines and penalties, cancellation of contracts and loss of patients if security breaches are not prevented. we have installed privacy protection systems and devices on our network and poc laptops in an attempt to prevent unauthorized access to information in our database. however, our technology may fail to adequately secure the confidential health information and personally identifiable information we maintain in our databases. in such circumstances, we may be held liable to our patients and regulators, which could result in fines, litigation or adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. even if we are not held liable, any resulting negative publicity could harm our business and distract the attention of management. further, our information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins and similar events. a failure to restore our information systems after the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, loss of electronically stored information for any reason could expose us to a risk of regulatory action and litigation and possible liability and loss. we believe we have all the necessary licenses from third parties to use technology and software that we do not own. a third party could, however, allege that we are infringing its rights and we may not be able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms from the third party, if at all, or the third party may commence litigation against us. in addition, we may find it necessary to initiate litigation to protect our trade secrets, to enforce our intellectual property rights and to determine the scope and validity of any proprietary rights of others. any such litigation, or the failure to obtain any necessary licenses or other rights, could materially and adversely affect our business. our inability to effectively and timely transition to the new icd-10 coding system could disrupt our operations. cms has mandated that all providers implement the use of new patient codes for medical coding, referred to as icd-10 codes, on or before october 1, 2014. this mandate substantially increases the number of medical billing codes by which providers will seek reimbursement, increasing the complexity of submitting claims for   25 table of contents reimbursement. claims submitted after october 1, 2014 must use icd-10 codes or they will not be paid. transition to the new icd-10 system requires changes to our clinical software system as well as the training of staff involved in the coding and billing processes. in addition to these upfront costs of transition to icd-10, it is possible that we could experience disruption or delays in payment due to implementation issues, including software errors, coding errors or a decrease in the productivity of our staff involved in the coding and billing processes. any such delays in payment could disrupt our operations and materially and adversely affect our business. possible changes in the case mix of patients, as well as payor mix and payment methodologies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our revenue is determined by a number of factors, including our mix of patients and the rates of payment among payors. changes in the case mix of our patients, payment methodologies or the payor mix among medicare, medicaid and private payors could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to negotiate favorable managed care contracts, or our loss of existing favorable managed care contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. one of our strategies is to diversify our payor sources by increasing the business we do with managed care companies, and we strive to put in place favorable contracts with managed care payors. however, we may not be successful in these efforts. additionally, there is a risk that the favorable managed care contracts that we put in place may be terminated, and managed care contracts typically permit the payor to terminate the contract without cause, on very short notice, typically 60 days, which can provide payors leverage to reduce volume or obtain favorable pricing. for example, in august, 2012, humana, inc. (“humana”) provided a notice of termination to us, which resulted in our renegotiating a new contract with humana in october 2012 that will generate lower revenues for us. our failure to negotiate and put in place favorable managed care contracts, or our failure to maintain in place favorable managed care contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a write off of a significant amount of intangible assets or long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. during 2012 and 2011, we determined that goodwill and other intangible assets related primarily to our home health reporting unit were impaired and we recorded non-cash goodwill and other intangible assets impairment charges of $162.1 million and $579.9 million, respectively. in addition, a further significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate or slower growth rates could result in the need to perform an impairment analysis under accounting standard codification (“asc”) topic 350 “intangibles – goodwill and other” in future periods in addition to our annual impairment test. if we were to conclude that a future write down of goodwill is necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge, which could result in material charges that are adverse to our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. see note 5 – “goodwill and other intangible assets, net” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on the impairment. because we have grown in part through acquisitions, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. goodwill was approximately $208.9 million as of december 31, 2013 and if we make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional intangible assets in our consolidated financial statements. we also have long-lived assets consisting of property and equipment and other identifiable intangible assets of $195.7 million as of december 31, 2013, which we review both on a periodic basis for indefinite lived intangible assets as well as when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an   26 table of contents asset may not be recoverable. if a determination that a significant impairment in value of our unamortized intangible assets or long-lived assets occurs, such determination could require us to write off a substantial portion of our assets. a write off of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. a shortage of qualified registered nursing staff and other clinicians, such as therapists and nurse practitioners, could materially impact our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel and could increase operating costs. we compete for qualified personnel with other healthcare providers. our ability to attract and retain clinicians depends on several factors, including our ability to provide these personnel with attractive assignments and competitive salaries and benefits. we cannot be assured we will succeed in any of these areas. in addition, there are shortages of qualified health care personnel in some of our markets. as a result, we may face higher costs of attracting clinicians and providing them with attractive benefit packages than we originally anticipated which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if we expand our operations into geographic areas where health care providers historically have been unionized, or if any of our care center employees become unionized, being subject to a collective bargaining agreement may have a negative impact on our ability to timely and successfully recruit qualified personnel and may increase our operating costs. generally, if we are unable to attract and retain clinicians, the quality of our services may decline and we could lose patients and referral sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our insurance liability coverage may not be sufficient for our business needs. as a result of operating in the home health industry, our business entails an inherent risk of claims, losses and potential lawsuits alleging incidents involving our employees that are likely to occur in a patient’s home. we maintain professional liability insurance to provide coverage to us and our subsidiaries against these risks. however, we cannot assure you claims will not be made in the future in excess of the limits of our insurance, nor can we assure you that any such claims, if successful and in excess of such limits, will not have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our insurance coverage also includes fire, property damage and general liability with varying limits. we cannot assure you that the insurance we maintain will satisfy claims made against us or that insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at commercially reasonable rates, in adequate amounts or on satisfactory terms. any claims made against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, could damage our reputation and business. we may be subject to substantial malpractice or other similar claims. the services we offer involve an inherent risk of professional liability and related substantial damage awards. as of march 10, 2014, we had approximately 14,300 employees (10,900 home health, 2,400 hospice and 1,000 corporate employees). in addition, we employ direct care workers on a contractual basis to support our existing workforce. due to the nature of our business, we, through our employees and caregivers who provide services on our behalf, may be the subject of medical malpractice claims. a court could find these individuals should be considered our agents, and, as a result, we could be held liable for their acts or omissions. we cannot predict the effect that any claims of this nature, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have on our business or reputation or on our ability to attract and retain patients and employees. while we maintain malpractice liability coverage that we believe is appropriate given the nature and breadth of our operations, any claims against us in excess of insurance limits, or multiple claims requiring us to pay deductibles could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to maintain our corporate reputation, our business may suffer. our success depends on our ability to maintain our corporate reputation, including our reputation for providing quality patient care and for compliance with medicare requirements and the other laws to which we are subject.   27 table of contents adverse publicity surrounding any aspect of our business, including the death or disability of any of our patients due to our failure to provide proper care, or due to any failure on our part to comply with medicare requirements or other laws to which we are subject, could negatively affect our company’s overall reputation and the willingness of referral sources to refer patients to us. we depend on the services of our executive officers and other key employees. our success depends upon the continued employment of members of our senior management team, including our president and interim chief executive officer, ronald a. laborde, our executive vice president of home health and hospice operations, g. patrick thompson, jr, our chief medical officer, dr. michael o. fleming, our chief compliance officer, jeffrey d. jeter, and our general counsel and secretary, david r. bucey. the loss or departure of any one of these executives or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations could be impacted by natural disasters. the occurrence of natural disasters in the markets in which we operate could not only impact the day-to-day operations of our care centers, but could also disrupt our relationships with patients, employees and referral sources located in the affected areas and, in the case of our corporate office, our ability to provide administrative support services, including billing and collection services. in addition, any episode of care that is not completed due to the impact of a natural disaster will generally result in lower revenue for the episode. for example, our corporate office and a number of our care centers are located in the southeastern united states and the gulf coast region, increasing our exposure to hurricanes. future hurricanes or other natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to liquidity delays in payment may cause liquidity problems. our business is characterized by delays from the time we provide services to the time we receive payment for these services. if we have difficulty in obtaining documentation, such as physician orders, experience information system problems or experience other issues that arise with medicare or other payors, we may encounter additional delays in our payment cycle. in addition, timing delays may cause working capital shortages. working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in achieving our financial results and maintaining liquidity. it is possible that documentation support, system problems, medicare or other provider issues or industry trends may extend our collection period, which may materially adversely affect our working capital, and our working capital management procedures may not successfully mitigate this risk. additionally, our hospice operations may experience payment delays. we have experienced payment delays when attempting to collect funds from state medicaid programs in certain instances. delays in receiving payments from these programs may also materially adversely affect our working capital. the volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the united states and global economies could impact our ability to access both available and affordable financing, and without such financing, we may be unable to achieve our objectives for strategic acquisitions and internal growth. the united states and global capital and credit markets have recently experienced extreme volatility and disruption at unprecedented levels. many financial institutions have recorded significant write-downs of asset values and these write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions, or have increased their rates significantly.   28 table of contents while we intend to finance strategic acquisitions and internal growth with cash flows from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility, we may require sources of capital in addition to those presently available to us. uncertainty in the capital and credit markets may impact our ability to access capital on terms acceptable to us (i.e. at attractive/affordable rates) or at all, and this may result in our inability to achieve present objectives for strategic acquisitions and internal growth. further, in the event we need additional funds, and we are unable to raise the necessary funds on acceptable terms, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our indebtedness could impact our financial condition and impair our ability to fulfill other obligations. as of december 31, 2013, we had total outstanding indebtedness of approximately $46.9 million, comprised mainly of indebtedness incurred for acquisitions. our level of indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows and impair our ability to fulfill other obligations in several ways, including:     •   it could require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which could reduce the availability of cash flow to fund acquisitions, start-ups, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;     •   it could limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and other purposes;     •   it could limit our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our industry or business;     •   it could make us more vulnerable to unfavorable economic or business conditions; and     •   it could limit our ability to make acquisitions or take advantage of other business opportunities. in the event we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and our failure to satisfy requirements in these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the agreements governing our indebtedness (the “debt agreements”) contain certain obligations, including restrictive covenants that require us to comply with or maintain certain financial covenants and ratios and restrict our ability to:     •   incur additional debt;     •   redeem or repurchase stock, pay dividends or make other distributions;     •   make certain investments;     •   create liens;     •   enter into transactions with affiliates;     •   make acquisitions;     •   enter into joint ventures;     •   merge or consolidate;     •   invest in foreign subsidiaries;     •   amend acquisition documents;     •   enter into certain swap agreements;     •   make certain restricted payments;     •   transfer, sell or leaseback assets; and     •   make fundamental changes in our corporate existence and principal business.   29 table of contents in addition, events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with the debt agreements. any failure by us to comply with or maintain all applicable financial covenants and ratios and to comply with all other applicable covenants could result in an event of default with respect to the debt agreements. if we are unable to obtain a waiver from our lenders in the event of any non-compliance, our lenders could accelerate the maturity of any outstanding indebtedness and terminate the commitments to make further extensions of credit (including our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility). any failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to ownership of our common stock the price of our common stock may be volatile. the price at which our common stock trades may be volatile. the stock market from time to time experiences significant price and volume fluctuations that impact the market prices of securities, particularly those of health care companies. the market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:     •   our operating and financial performance;     •   variances in our quarterly financial results compared to research analyst expectations;     •   the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock;     •   future sales of common stock by the company or large stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur;     •   investor, analyst and media perception of our business and our prospects;     •   developments relating to litigation or governmental investigations;     •   changes or proposed changes in health care laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters;     •   departure of key personnel;     •   changes in the medicare, medicaid and private insurance payment rates for home health and hospice;     •   announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; or     •   general economic and stock market conditions. in addition, the stock market in general, and the nasdaq global select market (“nasdaq”) in particular, has experienced price and volume fluctuations that we believe have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of health care provider companies. these broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. securities class-action cases have often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. the activities of short sellers could reduce the price or prevent increases in the price of our common stock. “short sale” is defined as the sale of stock by an investor that the investor does not own. typically, investors who sell short believe the price of the stock will fall, and anticipate selling shares at a higher price than the purchase price at which they will buy the stock. as of december 31, 2013, investors held a short position of approximately 4.5 million shares of our common stock which represented 14.0% of our outstanding common stock. the anticipated downward pressure on our stock price due to actual or anticipated sales of our stock by some institutions or individuals who engage in short sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline.   30 table of contents sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or preferred stock, or the availability of those shares for future sale, could materially impact our stock price and limit our ability to raise capital. the following table presents information about our outstanding common and preferred stock and our outstanding securities exercisable for or convertible into shares of common stock:        as of december 31, 2013   common stock outstanding      32,538,971   preferred stock outstanding      —     common stock available under 2008 omnibus incentive compensation plan      1,689,456   stock options outstanding and exercisable      194,493   non-vested stock outstanding      773,491   non-vested stock units outstanding      389,816   if we were to sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or if there was a public perception that substantial sales could occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. these sales or the perception of substantial future sales may also make it difficult for us to sell common stock in the future to raise capital. our board of directors may use anti-takeover provisions or issue stock to discourage a change of control. our certificate of incorporation currently authorizes us to issue up to 60,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock. our board of directors may cause us to issue additional stock to discourage an attempt to obtain control of our company. for example, shares of stock could be sold to purchasers who might support our board of directors in a control contest or to dilute the voting or other rights of a person seeking to obtain control. in addition, our board of directors could cause us to issue preferred stock entitling holders to vote separately on any proposed transaction, convert preferred stock into common stock, demand redemption at a specified price in connection with a change in control, or exercise other rights designed to impede a takeover. the issuance of additional shares may, among other things, dilute the earnings and equity per share of our common stock and the voting rights of common stockholders. we have implemented other anti-takeover provisions or provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. these provisions, and others that our board of directors may adopt hereafter, may discourage offers to acquire us and may permit our board of directors to choose not to entertain offers to purchase us, even if such offers include a substantial premium to the market price of our stock. therefore, our stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to profit from a sale of control.   item 1b. unresolved