item 1a.    risk factors  set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the securities and exchange commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and in other documents we file with the securities and exchange commission. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. you should carefully consider the following factors in addition to other information contained in this report on form 10-k before purchasing any shares of our common stock. factors affecting operations or operating results  if we experience another global recession, our business and operating results could be materially adversely impacted.    due to our strong balance sheet, diverse product offerings, various end-markets served, and our broad geographic presence, we are well positioned to withstand slowness in any one particular region or market. however, as we have seen in recent years, there can be no assurance that there will not be another deterioration in economic conditions. these economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. a retightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. in addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, customers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory or supply challenges. some of our materials are single-sourced. an interruption in supply may also impact our ability to meet customer demands. another disruption in the credit markets could also restrict access to capital.  in difficult market conditions, our high fixed costs combined with potentially lower revenues may negatively impact our results.    our business is characterized by high fixed costs and, notwithstanding our utilization of third-party manufacturing capacity, most of our production requirements are met by our own manufacturing facilities. in difficult environments, we are generally faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in product demand. during such periods, our plants do not operate at full capacity and the costs associated with this excess capacity are charged directly to cost of sales. difficult market conditions in the future may adversely affect our utilization rates and consequently our future gross margins, and this, in turn, could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  we face strong global competition and our market share could decline.    all of the markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we continue to experience price competition in all product lines and segments. competitors include privately and publicly held entities. our competitors range from regional to international companies. while we have experienced some competition from low cost asian suppliers in some of our markets, particularly in the low-end fragrance/cosmetic and personal care market, this has not been significant. indirectly, some fragrance marketers are sourcing their manufacturing requirements including filling of their product in asia and importing the finished product back into the united states or europe. if we are unable to compete successfully, our market share may decline, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  we have foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may materially adversely affect our operating results.    a significant number of our operations are located outside of the united states. because of this, movements in exchange rates may have a significant impact on the translation of the financial statements of our foreign entities. our primary foreign exchange exposure is to the euro, but we have foreign exchange exposure to south american and asian currencies, among others. we manage our exposures to foreign exchange principally with forward exchange contracts to economically hedge certain transactions and firm purchase and sales commitments denominated in foreign currencies. a strengthening u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies has a dilutive translation effect on our financial statements. conversely, a weakening u.s. dollar has an additive translation effect. in some cases, we sell products denominated in a currency different from the currency in which the related costs are incurred. the volatility of currency exchange rates may materially affect our operating results.  if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.    the majority of our european employees are covered by collective bargaining arrangements made either at the local or national level in their respective countries and approximately 170 of our north american employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that this will continue. if disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage, we could incur higher labor costs or experience a significant disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.  if we were to incur a significant product liability claim above our current insurance coverage, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.    approximately 22% of our net sales are made to customers in 8 /atr 2010 form 10-k table of contents the pharmaceutical industry. if our devices fail to operate as intended, medication prescribed for patients may be under administered, or may be over administered. the failure of our devices to operate as intended may result in a product liability claim against us. we believe we maintain adequate levels of product liability insurance coverage. a product liability claim or claims in our pharma segment or our other segments in excess of our insurance coverage may materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.  the success or failure of our customers' products, particularly in the pharmaceutical market, may materially affect our operating results and financial condition.    in the pharmaceutical market, the proprietary nature of our customers' products and the success or failure of their products in the market using our dispensing systems may have a material impact on our operating results and financial condition. we may potentially work for years on modifying our dispensing device to work in conjunction with a customer's drug formulation. if the customer's pharmaceutical product is not approved by regulatory bodies or it is not successful on the market, the associated costs may not be recovered.  higher raw material costs and an inability to increase our selling prices may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.    raw material costs are expected to increase in the coming years and we have generally been able to increase selling prices to cover increased costs. in the future, market conditions may prevent us from passing these increased costs on to our customers through timely price increases. in addition, we may not be able to improve productivity or realize savings from our cost reduction programs sufficiently enough to offset the impact of increased raw material costs. as a result, higher raw material costs could result in declining margins and operating results.  single sourced materials and manufacturing sites could risk our ability to deliver product.    the company sources certain materials, especially some resins and rubber components for our pharmaceutical segment, from a single source. any disruption in the supply of these materials could adversely impact our ability to deliver product to our customers. similarly, we have certain components and / or products that are manufactured at a single location or from a single machine or mold. any disruption to the manufacturing process could also impact our ability to deliver product to our customers.  we have approximately $227 million in recorded goodwill and changes in future business conditions could cause this asset to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income.    we evaluate the recoverability of goodwill amounts annually, or more frequently when evidence of potential impairment exists. the impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill and, as a result, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. see "critical accounting policies and estimates" in part ii, item 7 (which is incorporated by reference herein).  the scope and complexity of the change in organization structure could increase certain risks.    during 2010, we announced a strategic realignment of our businesses, including a new organizational structure that became effective at the beginning of fiscal year 2011. aptargroup's new organizational structure will allow us to offer our full product range in each of the three market-focused lines of business: aptar beauty + home, aptar pharma and aptar food + beverage. the new structure will also broaden and accelerate the development of innovative new products with a global focus on market applications and consumer preferences. effective at the beginning of fiscal 2011, we began operating under the new structure. however, we could still experience some planning and execution difficulties as we fully complete this transition. factors affecting aptargroup stock  ownership by certain significant shareholders.    neuberger berman group llc and state farm life insurance company each own approximately 13% and 9%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. if one of these significant shareholders decides to sell significant volumes of our stock, this could put downward pressure on the price of the stock.  certain anti-takeover factors.    certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit changes in control of aptargroup not approved by the board of directors. these provisions include (i) special voting requirements for business combinations, (ii) a classified board of directors, (iii) a prohibition on stockholder action through written consents, (iv) a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the board of directors, (v) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations, (vi) limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our bylaws and (vii) provisions that require the vote of 70% of the whole board of directors in order to take certain actions. item 1b.    unresolved