item 1a.    risk factors   the following is a summary of risk factors relevant to our operations which should be carefully reviewed.  these risk factors do not necessarily appear in the order of importance.   changes in interest rates may reduce our net income.   our earnings depend largely on the relationship between the yield on our interest-earning assets, primarily our mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, and the cost of our deposits and borrowings.  this relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors which influence market interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the level of non-performing assets.  fluctuations in market interest rates affect customer demand for our products and services.  we are subject to irr to the degree that our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than our interest-earning assets.   in addition, the actual amount of time before mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in mortgage prepayment rates and market interest rates.  mortgage prepayment rates will vary due to a number of factors, including the regional economy in the area where the underlying mortgages were originated, seasonal factors, demographic variables and the assumability of the underlying mortgages.  however, the major factors affecting prepayment rates are prevailing interest rates, related mortgage refinancing opportunities and competition.   at december 31, 2012, $1.95 billion of our borrowings contain features that would allow them to be called prior to their contractual maturity.  this would generally occur during periods of rising interest rates.  if this were to occur, we would need to either renew the borrowings at a potentially higher rate of interest, which would negatively impact our net interest income, or repay such borrowings.  if we sell securities or other assets to fund the repayment of such borrowings, any decline in estimated market value with respect to the securities or assets sold would be realized and could result in a loss upon such sale.   interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate.  although we cannot predict future federal open market committee, or fomc, or frb actions or other factors that will cause rates to change, the fomc has indicated their desire to maintain their accommodative monetary stance at least through mid-2015.  this is a continuation of their efforts of the past few years during which we have seen historic lows on mortgage interest rates and elevated mortgage loan prepayments.  while this may continue, a flat u.s. treasury yield curve adversely impacts our net interest rate spread and net interest margin.  no assurance can be given that changes in interest rates or mortgage loan prepayments will not have a negative impact on our net interest income, net interest rate spread or net interest margin.   39 table of contents   our results of operations are affected by economic conditions in the new york metropolitan area and nationally.   our retail banking and a significant portion of our lending business (approximately 47% of our residential and 97% of our multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loan portfolios at december 31, 2012) are concentrated in the new york metropolitan area.  as a result of this geographic concentration, our results of operations largely depend upon economic conditions in this area, although they also depend on economic conditions in other areas.   we are operating in a challenging economic environment, both nationally and locally.  financial institutions continue to be affected by continued softness in the housing and real estate markets.  depressed real estate values and home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the current economic environment, including elevated unemployment levels, have had an adverse effect on our borrowers, which has adversely affected our results of operations and may continue to do so in the future, as well as adversely affect our financial condition.  in addition, depressed real estate values have adversely affected the value of property used as collateral for our loans.  at december 31, 2012, the average loan-to-value ratio of our mortgage loan portfolio was less than 59% based on current principal balances and original appraised values.  however, no assurance can be given that the original appraised values are reflective of current market conditions as we have experienced significant declines in real estate values in all markets in which we lend.   as a residential lender, we are particularly vulnerable to the impact of a severe job loss recession.  significant increases in job losses and unemployment have a negative impact on the financial condition of residential borrowers and their ability to remain current on their mortgage loans.  continued weakness or deterioration in national and local economic conditions, including an accelerating pace of job losses, particularly in the new york metropolitan area, could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio, which could result in increases in loan delinquencies, causing a decrease in our interest income as well as an adverse impact on our loan loss experience, causing an increase in our allowance for loan losses and related provision and a decrease in net income.  such deterioration could also adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and, accordingly, our results of operations.   strong competition within our market areas could hurt our profits and slow growth.   our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas.  the new york metropolitan area has a high density of financial institutions, a number of which are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than we have.  we face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits.  our competition for loans, both locally and nationally, comes principally from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking companies and credit unions.  our most direct competition for deposits comes from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions.  we also face competition for deposits from money market mutual funds and other corporate and government securities funds as well as from other financial intermediaries such as brokerage firms and insurance companies.  price competition for loans and deposits could result in earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce our net interest income.  competition also makes it more difficult to grow our loan and deposit balances.   we may not be able to fully execute on our new business initiatives which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.   we have historically been a community-oriented retail bank offering traditional deposit products and focusing on residential mortgage lending. however, the current economic environment has made it difficult for us to profitably grow our business in the same manner as it has in the past. accordingly, we have been developing strategies to grow other loan categories to diversify earning assets and to increase low cost core deposits. these strategies include continued reliance on our multi-family and commercial   40 table of contents   real estate mortgage lending operations and, over time, significantly expanding our business banking operations. our business banking initiative includes focusing on small and mid-sized businesses, with an emphasis on attracting clients from larger competitors. we are also considering expanding our branch network into other locations on long island and opening branches in manhattan. there are costs, risks and uncertainties associated with the development, implementation and execution of these new initiatives, including the investment of time and resources, the possibility that these initiatives will be unprofitable and the risk of additional liabilities associated with these initiatives. in addition, our ability to successfully execute on these new initiatives will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain talented individuals to help manage these initiatives and the existence of satisfactory market conditions that will allow us to profitably grow these businesses. our potential inability to successfully execute these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  we expect our non-interest expense to increase in connection with the increased staff related to these initiatives and the potential addition of new branches.  we anticipate realizing these costs in advance of realizing increased revenues and deposit growth from these initiatives.   multi-family and commercial real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks.   our policy generally has been to originate multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loans in the new york metropolitan area.  at december 31, 2012, multi-family loans totaled $2.41 billion, or 18% of our total loan portfolio, and commercial real estate loans totaled $773.9 million, or 6% of our total loan portfolio.  multi-family and commercial real estate loans generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than residential loans because they typically have larger balances and are more affected by adverse conditions in the economy.  because payments on loans secured by multi-family properties and commercial real estate often depend upon the successful operation and management of the properties and the businesses which operate from within them, repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower’s control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government regulation.  at december 31, 2012, non-performing multi-family and commercial real estate loans totaled $17.5 million, or 0.55% of our total portfolio of multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loans.   we have originated multi-family and commercial real estate loans in areas other than the new york metropolitan area.  at december 31, 2012, loans in states other than new york, new jersey and connecticut comprised 3% of the total multi-family and commercial real estate loan portfolio.  we could be subject to additional risks with respect to multi-family and commercial real estate lending in areas other than the new york metropolitan area since we have less experience in these areas with this type of lending and less direct oversight of the local market and the borrowers’ operations.   astoria federal’s ability to pay dividends or lend funds to us is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent we need but are not able to access such funds, may prevent us from making future dividend payments or principal and interest payments due on our debt obligations.   we are a unitary savings and loan holding company currently regulated by the frb and almost all of our operating assets are owned by astoria federal.  we rely primarily on dividends from astoria federal to pay cash dividends to our stockholders, to engage in share repurchase programs and to pay principal and interest on our debt obligations.  the occ regulates all capital distributions by astoria federal directly or indirectly to us, including dividend payments.  as the subsidiary of a savings and loan holding company, astoria federal must file a notice with the occ at least 30 days prior to each capital distribution.  however, if the total amount of all capital distributions (including each proposed capital distribution) for the applicable calendar year exceeds net income for that year to date plus the retained net income for the preceding two years, then astoria federal must file an application to receive the approval of the occ for a proposed capital distribution.  during 2012, we were required to file applications with the occ for proposed capital distributions and we anticipate that in 2013 we will continue to be required to file such   41 table of contents   applications for proposed capital distributions.  in addition, as the subsidiary of a savings and loan holding company, astoria federal must also receive approval from the frb before declaring a dividend.   in addition, astoria federal may not pay dividends to us if, after paying those dividends, it would fail to meet the required minimum levels under risk-based capital guidelines and the minimum leverage and tangible capital ratio requirements or the occ notified astoria federal that it was in need of more than normal supervision.  under the prompt corrective action provisions of the fdia, an insured depository institution such as astoria federal is prohibited from making a capital distribution, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution, the institution would become “undercapitalized” (as such term is used in the fdia).  payment of dividends by astoria federal also may be restricted at any time at the discretion of the occ if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice.  furthermore, capital standards imposed on us and similarly situated institutions have been and continue to be refined by bank regulatory agencies under the reform act.  deterioration of economic conditions and further changes to regulatory guidance could result in revised capital standards that may indicate the need for us or astoria federal to maintain greater capital positions, which could lead to limitations in dividend payments to us by astoria federal.   there can be no assurance that astoria federal will be able to pay dividends at past levels, or at all, in the future.  if we do not receive sufficient cash dividends or are unable to borrow from astoria federal, then we may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends to our shareholders, repurchase our common stock or service our debt obligations.   in addition to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends, astoria federal is subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on any extensions of credit it makes to its affiliates and on investments in stock or other securities of its affiliates.  we are considered an affiliate of astoria federal.  these restrictions prevent affiliates of astoria federal, including us, from borrowing from astoria federal, unless various types of collateral secure the loans.  federal law limits the aggregate amount of loans to and investments in any single affiliate to 10% of astoria federal’s capital stock and surplus and also limits the aggregate amount of loans to and investments in all affiliates to 20% of astoria federal’s capital stock and surplus.   the reform act imposes further restrictions on transactions with affiliates and extensions of credit to executive officers, directors and principal shareholders, by, among other things, expanding covered transactions to include securities lending, repurchase agreement and derivatives activities with affiliates.   we are subject to regulatory requirements and limitations that may impact our ability to pay future dividends.   we are currently required to file a notice with the frb at least 30 days prior to declaring a cash dividend.  the notice must evidence our compliance with applicable frb guidance regarding payment of dividends.  this process enables the frb to comment on, object to or otherwise prohibit us from paying the proposed dividend.   the supervisory guidance issued by the frb states that we should either eliminate, defer or significantly reduce dividends if (1) our net income available to common shareholders over the past year is insufficient to fully fund a dividend, (2) our prospective rate of earnings retention is not consistent with our capital needs and our overall current or prospective financial condition or (3) we will not meet, or are in danger of not meeting, our minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios.   we operate in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of our business activities.   we are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the frb, occ, cfpb and fdic.  as a result, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing.  this regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the dif and our depositors, as well as other consumers and not to benefit our stockholders.  this   42 table of contents   regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes.  in addition, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws.  government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws.   changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy may have a material effect on our results of operations.   financial institutions have been the subject of significant legislative and regulatory changes and may be the subject of further significant legislation or regulation in the future, none of which is within our control.  significant new laws or regulations or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws or regulations, including those with respect to federal and state taxation, may cause our results of operations to differ materially.  in addition, the costs and burden of compliance have significantly increased and could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably.  further, federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for astoria federal, as well as for our borrowers, particularly as implemented through the federal reserve system, primarily through open market operations in u.s. government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements.  a material change in any of these conditions could have a material impact on astoria federal or our borrowers, and therefore on our results of operations.   the regulatory reform legislation that became effective in 2011 has created uncertainty and may have a material effect on our operations and capital requirements.   as a result of the financial crisis which occurred in the banking and financial markets commencing in the second half of 2007, the overall bank regulatory climate is now marked by caution, conservatism and a focus on compliance and risk management.  we expect to continue to face increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the financial crisis and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed on us to the extent that we participate in any of the programs established or to be established by the treasury or by the agencies. such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.  in addition, there are many provisions of the reform act which are to be implemented through regulations that have not yet been adopted by the agencies, which creates a risk of uncertainty as to the effect that such provisions will ultimately have.  in addition to the creation of the cfpb, we believe the following provisions of the reform act have had or will have the most impact on us:   · the assumption by the occ of regulatory authority over all federal savings associations, such as astoria federal, and the acquisition by the frb of regulatory authority over all savings and loan holding companies, such as astoria financial corporation, as well as all subsidiaries of savings and loan holding companies other than depository institutions. although the laws and regulations currently applicable to us generally have not changed by virtue of the elimination of the ots (except to the extent such laws have been modified by the reform act), the application of these laws and regulations may vary as administered by the occ and the frb. · the significant roll back of the federal preemption of state consumer protection laws that is currently enjoyed by federal savings associations and national banks. as a result, we are subject to state consumer protection laws in each state where we do business, and those laws can be interpreted and enforced differently in different states. · the establishment of consolidated risk-based and leverage capital requirements for insured depository institutions, depository institution holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial companies, as discussed below. · the increase in the minimum designated reserve ratio for the dif from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, which must be reached by september 30, 2020, and the requirement that deposit   43 table of contents     insurance assessments be based on average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than on deposit bases. as a result of these provisions, our deposit insurance premiums have substantially increased.   new and future rulemaking from the consumer financial protection bureau may have a material effect on our operations and operating costs.   the cfpb has the authority to implement and enforce a variety of existing consumer protection statutes and to issue new regulations and, with respect to institutions of our size, has exclusive examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to such laws and regulations.  as an independent bureau within the frb, the cfpb may impose requirements more severe than the previous bank regulatory agencies.   pursuant to the reform act, the cfpb issued a series of final rules in january 2013 related to mortgage loan origination and mortgage loan servicing.  these final rules, most provisions of which become effective january 10, 2014, prohibit creditors, such as astoria federal, from extending mortgage loans without regard for the consumer’s ability to repay and add restrictions and requirements to mortgage origination and servicing practices.  in addition, these rules restrict the application of prepayment penalties and compensation practices relating to mortgage loan underwriting.  compliance with these rules will likely increase our overall regulatory compliance costs and may require us to change our underwriting practices.  moreover, it is possible that these rules may adversely affect the volume of mortgage loans that we underwrite and may subject astoria federal to increased potential liability related to its residential loan origination activities.   as a result of the reform act and other proposed changes, we may become subject to more stringent capital requirements.   the reform act requires the federal banking agencies to establish consolidated risk-based and leverage capital requirements for insured depository institutions, depository institution holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial companies. these requirements must be no less than those to which insured depository institutions are currently subject, and the new requirements will effectively eliminate the use of trust preferred securities as a component of tier 1 capital for depository institution holding companies of our size. in addition, the reform act specifically authorizes the frb to issue regulations relating to capital requirements for savings and loan holding companies.  as a result, by no later than july 2015, we will become subject to consolidated capital requirements which we have not been subject to previously.   the agencies issued a notice of proposed rulemaking for three sets of proposed rules during 2012, or the proposed rules, which will subject all savings and loan holding companies, including astoria financial corporation, to consolidated capital requirements.  the proposed rules would revise the quantity and quality of required minimum risk-based and leverage capital requirements, consistent with the reform act and the basel iii capital standards, and revise the frb’s rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance their risk sensitivity.  the new minimum regulatory capital ratios and changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets were expected to be phased-in beginning in january 2013; however, the agencies announced on november 9, 2012, that the proposed rules would not become effective in january 2013. at this time, no final rules have been announced or published and no further guidance has been issued by any of the agencies.  if the proposed rules are adopted as proposed, we believe we would have been in compliance with the new minimum capital requirements as of december 31, 2012.   the proposed rules revise the quantity and quality of capital required by: (1) establishing a new minimum common equity tier 1 ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets; (2) raising the minimum tier 1 capital ratio from 4.0% to 6.0% of risk-weighted assets; (3) maintaining the minimum total capital ratio of 8.0% of risk-weighted assets; and (4) maintaining a minimum tier 1 capital to adjusted average consolidated assets, known as the leverage ratio, of 4.0%.  these changes, as proposed, would have been   44 table of contents   phased in incrementally beginning january 1, 2013 to provide time for banking organizations to meet the new capital standards, with full implementation to occur by january 1, 2015.  if the effectiveness of the rules had not been delayed, the required minimum common equity tier 1 capital would have been 3.5% on january 1, 2013, 4.0% on january 1, 2014 and 4.5% on january 1, 2015, and the required minimum tier 1 capital ratio would have been 4.5% on january 1, 2013, 5.5% on january 1, 2014 and 6.0% on january 1, 2015.   in addition, the proposed rules revise the definition of capital to improve the ability of regulatory capital instruments to absorb losses and revise the frb rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity, which will exclude certain non-qualifying capital instruments, including cumulative preferred stock and trust preferred securities, such as our capital securities, as a component of tier 1 capital.  under the proposed rules, had effectiveness not been delayed, a depository institution holding company with assets of $15 billion or more would be allowed to include only 75% of non-qualifying capital instruments in regulatory capital as of january 1, 2013, 50% as of january 1, 2014 and 25% as of january 1, 2015.  as of january 1, 2016 and thereafter, no amount of non-qualifying capital instruments would be included in regulatory capital.   furthermore, the proposed rules add a requirement for a minimum conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets to be applied to the common equity tier 1 capital ratio, the tier 1 capital ratio and the total capital ratio.  failure to maintain the conservation buffer would result in restrictions on capital distributions and certain discretionary cash bonus payments to executive officers.  the required minimum conservation buffer would be phased in incrementally, starting at 0.625% on january 1, 2016 and increasing to 1.25% on january 1, 2017, 1.875% on january 1, 2018 and 2.5% on january 1, 2019.  if a banking organization’s conservation buffer is less than the required minimum and its net income for the four calendar quarters preceding the applicable calendar quarter, net of any capital distributions, certain discretionary bonus payments and associated tax effects not already reflected in net income, or eligible retained income, is negative, it would be prohibited from making capital distributions or certain discretionary cash bonus payments to executive officers.  as a result, under the proposed rules, if adopted, should astoria federal fail to maintain the conservation buffer we would be subject to limits on, and in the event astoria federal has negative eligible retained income for any four consecutive calendar quarters, we would be prohibited in, our ability to obtain capital distributions from astoria federal.  if we do not receive sufficient cash dividends from astoria federal, then we may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends, repurchase our common stock or service our debt obligations.   moreover, the proposed rules revise existing and establish new risk weights for certain exposures, including, among other exposures, residential mortgage loans, commercial loans, which generally include commercial real estate loans, multi-family loans, past due loans and gse exposures.  under the proposed rules, residential mortgage loans guaranteed by the u.s. government or its agencies would maintain their current risk-based capital treatment (a risk weight of 0% for those unconditionally guaranteed and a risk weight of 20% for those that are conditionally guaranteed).  all other residential mortgage loans would be separated into “category 1 residential mortgage exposures,” which generally include traditional, first-lien, prudently underwritten mortgage loans, and “category 2 residential mortgage exposures,” which generally include junior-liens, mortgage loans 90 days or more past due or on non-accrual status and non-traditional mortgage products, including interest-only mortgage loans and reduced documentation mortgage loans. the risk weights for category 1 residential mortgage exposures would range from 35% to 100% and risk weights for category 2 residential mortgage exposures would range from 100% to 200%, in each case depending on the loan-to-value ratio of the applicable exposure.  under the proposed rules, multi-family and commercial loans would have a risk weight of 100%, except multi-family loans that satisfy certain criteria would have a risk weight of 50%.  loans and other exposures, except for residential mortgage loans, that are 90 days or more past due would have a risk weight of 150%, and preferred stock issued by a gse would have a risk weight of 100% and exposures to gses that are not equity exposures would have a risk weight of 20%.  under the proposed rules, this risk weight framework would take effect on january 1, 2015, with an option for early adoption.   45 table of contents   in october 2012, the occ published its final rules requiring annual capital-adequacy stress tests for national banks and federal savings associations with consolidated assets of more than $10 billion, which were proposed in january 2012.  although the final rules became effective on october 9, 2012, the agencies revised the timeline for implementing the final rules for national banks and federal savings associations with consolidated assets between $10 billion and $50 billion, such as astoria federal, delaying the requirement to perform annual capital-adequacy stress tests until october 2013.  under the rules, the occ will provide institutions with economic scenarios, reflecting baseline, adverse and severely adverse conditions. astoria federal will be required to use the scenarios to calculate, for each quarter-end within a nine-quarter planning horizon, the impact of such scenarios on revenues, losses, loan loss reserves and regulatory capital levels and ratios, taking into account all relevant exposures and activities. on or before march 31 of each year beginning in 2014, astoria federal will be required to submit a report of the results of its stress test to the occ and publish a summary of the results between june 15 and june 30 of each year following the submission to the occ.  the rule also requires each institution to establish and maintain a system of controls, oversight and documentation, including policies and procedures, designed to ensure that the stress testing processes used by the institution are effective in meeting the requirements of the rule.   in october 2012, the frb published two final rules with stress testing requirements for certain bank holding companies, state member banks, and savings and loan holding companies.  in accordance with these rules, the frb began conducting supervisory stress tests in the fall of 2012 for the 19 bank holding companies that participated in the 2009 supervisory capital assessment program and subsequent comprehensive capital analysis and reviews.  the final rules also required these companies to conduct their own stress tests, with the results to be publicly disclosed in march 2013.  in addition to the stress test requirements applicable to these 19 bank holding companies, under the final rules, institutions, such as astoria financial corporation, will be required to conduct annual stress tests as of september 30 of each year.  institutions with less than $50 billion in assets, such as astoria financial corporation, are required to submit regulatory reports to the frb on their stress tests by march 31 of each year.  a summary of the company-run stress tests is required to be published. the stress test requirement is predicated on a company being subject to consolidated capital requirements and, therefore, the frb will delay effectiveness of this requirement for savings and loan holding companies, such as astoria financial corporation, until the frb has established risk-based capital requirements for such institutions.   while we are continuing to review the impact of the reform act, basel iii and the related proposed rulemaking, there can be no assurance that the reform act and the proposed rules, if adopted, will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   our transition to the occ as astoria federal’s primary banking regulator and the frb as our holding company regulator may increase our compliance costs.   on july 21, 2011, the ots was eliminated and the occ took over the regulation of all federal savings associations, including astoria federal.  the frb also acquired the ots’s authority over all savings and loan holding companies, including astoria financial corporation.  consequently, we are now subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the occ and the frb, rather than the ots.  additionally, the cfpb supervises our compliance with consumer protection laws.  as a result of becoming subject to regulation by these three entities and in light of the overall enhanced regulatory scrutiny in our industry, we have enhanced various systems and added staff to keep up with the operational and regulatory burden associated with an institution of our size.  for example, we have, among other things, established and commenced implementing (a) a comprehensive enterprise risk management program, including the creation of an enterprise risk management department and an enterprise risk management committee of the board of directors of each of astoria federal and astoria financial corporation, and (b) a comprehensive compliance management program, including the creation of a centralized corporate compliance department.  these enhancements have resulted in and will continue to result in additional investments in both technology and staffing that are likely to increase our non-interest expense.  moreover, as our regulators adopt implementing regulations and guidance with respect to their   46 table of contents   supervision of federal savings banks, we must evaluate and may need to further modify various policies and procedures, further enhance our technology and staffing to ensure continued compliance with this regulatory burden.   our ability to originate residential mortgage loans for portfolio has been adversely affected by the increased competition resulting from the unprecedented involvement of the u.s. government and gses in the residential mortgage market.   over the past few years, we have faced increased competition for residential mortgage loans due to the unprecedented involvement of the gses in the mortgage market as a result of the economic crisis, which has caused the interest rate for thirty year fixed rate mortgage loans that conform to gse guidelines to remain artificially low.  in addition, the u.s. congress has expanded the conforming loan limits in many of our operating markets, allowing larger balance loans to continue to be acquired by the gses.  as a result, more loans in our portfolio qualified under the expanded conforming loan limits and were refinanced into conforming fixed rate mortgages which we originate but do not retain for portfolio.  our residential mortgage loan repayments have remained at elevated levels and outpaced our loan production as a result of these factors, making it difficult for us to grow our residential mortgage loan portfolio and balance sheet.   the ultimate resolution of fannie mae and freddie mac may materially impact our results of operations.   both fannie mae and freddie mac are under conservatorship with the federal housing finance agency.  on february 11, 2011, the obama administration presented the u.s. congress with a report of its proposals for reforming america’s housing finance market with the goal of scaling back the role of the u.s. government in, and promoting the return of private capital to, the mortgage markets and ultimately winding down fannie mae and freddie mac.  without mentioning a specific time frame, the report calls for  the reduction of the role of fannie mae and freddie mac in the mortgage markets by, among other things, reducing conforming loan limits, increasing guarantee fees and requiring larger down payments by borrowers.  the report presents three options for the long-term structure of housing finance, all of which call for the unwinding of fannie mae and freddie mac and a reduced role of the government in the mortgage market: (1) a system with u.s. government insurance limited to a narrowly targeted group of borrowers; (2) a system similar to (1) above except with an expanded guarantee during times of crisis; and (3) a system where the u.s. government offers catastrophic reinsurance for the securities of a targeted range of mortgages behind significant private capital.  we cannot be certain if or when fannie mae and freddie mac will be wound down, if or when reform of the housing finance market will be implemented or what the future role of the u.s. government will be in the mortgage market, and, accordingly, we will not be able to determine the impact that any such reform may have on us until a definitive reform plan is adopted.   changes in the fair value of our securities may reduce our stockholders’ equity and net income.   at december 31, 2012, $336.3 million of our securities were classified as available-for-sale.  the estimated fair value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on changes in interest rates.  in general, as interest rates rise, the estimated fair value of our fixed rate securities portfolio will decrease.  our securities portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed rate securities.  we increase or decrease stockholders’ equity by the amount of the change in the unrealized gain or loss (difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax effect, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss.  therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholders’ equity, as well as book value per common share and tangible book value per common share.  this decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold.  in the case of debt securities, if these securities are never sold, the decrease will be recovered over the life of the securities.   47 table of contents   we conduct a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. factors which we consider in our analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, our intent and ability to not sell the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery.  we generally view changes in fair value caused by changes in interest rates as temporary, which is consistent with our experience.  if we deem such decline to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income, except for the amount of the total other-than-temporary impairment, or otti, for a debt security that does not represent credit losses which is recognized in other comprehensive income/loss, net of applicable taxes.   we have, in the past, recorded otti charges.  we continue to monitor the fair value of our securities portfolio as part of our ongoing otti evaluation process.  no assurance can be given that we will not need to recognize otti charges related to securities in the future.   declines in the market value of our common stock may have a material effect on the value of our reporting unit which could result in a goodwill impairment charge and adversely affect our results of operations.   at december 31, 2012, the carrying amount of our goodwill totaled $185.2 million.  we performed our annual goodwill impairment test as of september 30, 2012 and determined there was no goodwill impairment as of our annual impairment test date.  we would test our goodwill for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our reporting unit below its carrying amount.  no events have occurred and no circumstances have changed since our annual impairment test date that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our reporting unit below its carrying amount.  our market capitalization is less than our total stockholders’ equity at december 31, 2012.  we considered this and other factors in our goodwill impairment analyses.  no assurance can be given that we will not record an impairment loss on goodwill in a subsequent period.  however, our tangible capital ratio and astoria federal’s regulatory capital ratios would not be affected by this potential non-cash expense.   a natural disaster could harm our business.   astoria federal’s primary market area was affected by hurricane sandy in october 2012.  although hurricane sandy did not have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition or results of operations, a similar or worse natural disaster could have a material adverse effect.  natural disasters can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties, reduce or destroy the value of the collateral for our loans and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  the occurrence of a natural disaster could result in one or more of the following: (i) an increase in loan delinquencies; (ii) an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; (iii) a decrease in the demand for our products and services; or (iv) a decrease in the value of the collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage.   item 1b.     unresolved