item 1a.      risk factors the following is a summary of risk factors relevant to our operations which should be carefully reviewed. these risk factors do not necessarily appear in the order of importance. changes in interest rates may reduce our net income. our earnings depend largely on the relationship between the yield on our interest-earning assets, primarily our mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, and the cost of our deposits and borrowings. this relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors which influence market interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the level of non-performing assets. fluctuations in market interest   35   rates affect customer demand for our products and services. we are subject to irr to the degree that our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than our interest-earning assets. in addition, the actual amount of time before mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in mortgage prepayment rates and market interest rates. mortgage prepayment rates will vary due to a number of factors, including the regional economy in the area where the underlying mortgages were originated, seasonal factors, demographic variables and the assumability of the underlying mortgages. however, the major factors affecting prepayment rates are prevailing interest rates, related mortgage refinancing opportunities and competition. at december 31, 2010, $2.80 billion of our borrowings contain features that would allow them to be called prior to their contractual maturity. this would generally occur during periods of rising interest rates. if this were to occur, we would need to either renew the borrowings at a potentially higher rate of interest, which would negatively impact our net interest income, or repay such borrowings. if we sell securities or other assets to fund the repayment of such borrowings, any decline in estimated market value with respect to the securities or assets sold would be realized and could result in a loss upon such sale. interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate. we cannot predict future federal open market committee or frb actions or other factors that will cause rates to change. no assurance can be given that changes in interest rates or mortgage loan prepayments will not have a negative impact on our net interest income, net interest rate spread or net interest margin. our results of operations are affected by economic conditions in the new york metropolitan area and nationally. our retail banking and a significant portion of our lending business (approximately 45% of our one-to-four family and 94% of our multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loan portfolios at december 31, 2010) are concentrated in the new york metropolitan area, which includes new york, new jersey and connecticut. as a result of this geographic concentration, our results of operations largely depend upon economic conditions in this area, although they also depend on economic conditions in other areas. we are operating in a challenging economic environment, both nationally and locally. financial institutions continue to be affected by continued softness in the housing and real estate market. depressed real estate values and home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the current economic environment, including elevated unemployment levels, have had an adverse effect on our borrowers and their customers, which has adversely affected our results of operations and may continue to do so in the future, as well as adversely affect our financial condition. in addition, depressed real estate values have adversely affected the value of property used as collateral for our loans. at december 31, 2010, the average loan-to-value ratio of our mortgage loan portfolio was less than 61% based on current principal balances and original appraised values. however, no assurance can be given that the original appraised values are reflective of current market conditions as we have experienced significant declines in real estate values in all markets in which we lend. as a residential lender, we are particularly vulnerable to the impact of a severe job loss recession. significant increases in job losses and unemployment have a negative impact on the financial condition of residential borrowers and their ability to remain current on their mortgage loans. continued weakness or deterioration in national and local economic conditions, including an accelerating pace of job losses, particularly in the new york metropolitan area, could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio, which could result in increases in loan delinquencies, causing a decrease in our interest income as well as an adverse impact on our loan loss experience, causing an increase in our allowance for loan losses and related provision and a decrease in net income. such deterioration could also adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and, accordingly, our results of operations.   36   strong competition within our market areas could hurt our profits and slow growth. the new york metropolitan area has a high density of financial institutions, a number of which are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than we have. we face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. our competition for loans, both locally and nationally, comes principally from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking companies and credit unions. our most direct competition for deposits comes from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. we also face competition for deposits from money market mutual funds and other corporate and government securities funds as well as from other financial intermediaries such as brokerage firms and insurance companies. price competition for loans and deposits could result in earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce our net interest income. competition also makes it more difficult to grow our loan and deposit balances. our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas. multi-family and commercial real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks. while we are primarily a one-to-four family mortgage lender, we also originate multi-family and commercial real estate loans. at december 31, 2010, $2.19 billion, or 16%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of multi-family loans and $771.7 million, or 5%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans. multi-family and commercial real estate loans generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than one-to-four family mortgage loans because they typically have larger balances and are more affected by adverse conditions in the economy. because payments on loans secured by multi-family properties and commercial real estate often depend upon the successful operation and management of the properties and the businesses which operate from within them, repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower’s control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government regulation. at december 31, 2010, non-performing multi-family and commercial real estate loans totaled $36.7 million, or 1.24% of our total portfolio of multi-family and commercial real estate loans. we have originated multi-family and commercial real estate loans in areas other than the new york metropolitan area. at december 31, 2010, loans in states other than new york, new jersey and connecticut comprised 6% of the total multi-family and commercial real estate loan portfolio. we could be subject to additional risks with respect to multi-family and commercial real estate lending in areas other than the new york metropolitan area since we have less experience in these areas with this type of lending and less direct oversight of the local market and the borrowers’ operations. we did not originate any multi-family and commercial real estate loans during 2010. however, we expect to resume originations in the new york city multi-family mortgage market in 2011. astoria federal’s ability to pay dividends or lend funds to us is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent we need but are not able to access such funds, may prevent us from making future dividend payments or principal and interest payments due on our debt obligations. we are a unitary savings and loan association holding company currently regulated by the ots and almost all of our operating assets are owned by astoria federal. we rely primarily on dividends from astoria federal to pay cash dividends to our stockholders, to engage in share repurchase programs and to pay principal and interest on our debt obligations. the ots regulates all capital distributions by astoria federal directly or indirectly to us, including dividend payments. as the subsidiary of a savings and loan association holding company, astoria federal must file a notice with the ots at least 30 days prior to each capital distribution. however, if the total amount of all capital distributions (including each proposed capital distribution) for the applicable calendar year exceeds net income for that year to date plus the retained net income for the preceding two years, then astoria federal must file an application to   37   receive the approval of the ots for a proposed capital distribution. during 2010, we were required to file applications with the ots for proposed capital distributions and we anticipate that in 2011 we will continue to be required to file such applications for proposed capital distributions. in addition, astoria federal may not pay dividends to us if, after paying those dividends, it would fail to meet the required minimum levels under risk-based capital guidelines and the minimum leverage and tangible capital ratio requirements or the ots notified astoria federal that it was in need of more than normal supervision. under the prompt corrective action provisions of the fdia, an insured depository institution such as astoria federal is prohibited from making a capital distribution, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution, the institution would become “undercapitalized” (as such term is used in the fdia). payment of dividends by astoria federal also may be restricted at any time at the discretion of the appropriate regulator if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. based on astoria federal’s current financial condition, we do not expect the regulatory limitations will have any impact on our ability to obtain dividends from astoria federal. however, there can be no assurance that astoria federal will be able to pay dividends at past levels, or at all, in the future. in addition to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends, astoria federal is subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on any extensions of credit it makes to its affiliates and on investments in stock or other securities of its affiliates. we are considered an affiliate of astoria federal. these restrictions prevent affiliates of astoria federal, including us, from borrowing from astoria federal, unless various types of collateral secure the loans. federal law limits the aggregate amount of loans to and investments in any single affiliate to 10% of astoria federal’s capital stock and surplus and also limits the aggregate amount of loans to and investments in all affiliates to 20% of astoria federal’s capital stock and surplus. if we do not receive sufficient cash dividends or are unable to borrow from astoria federal, then we may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends, repurchase our common stock or service our debt obligations. the reform act imposes further restrictions on transactions with affiliates and extensions of credit to executive officers, directors and principal shareholders, by, among other things, expanding covered transactions to include securities lending, repurchase agreement and derivatives activities with affiliates. these changes are effective on the latter of july 21, 2012 or one year after the designated transfer date. we operate in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of our business activities. we are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the ots and by the fdic. as a result, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. this regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the dif and our depositors, and not to benefit our stockholders. this regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. in addition, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws. changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy may have a material effect on our results of operations. financial institutions have been the subject of recent significant legislative and regulatory changes and may be the subject of further significant legislation or regulation in the future, none of which is within our control. significant new laws or regulations or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws or regulations, including those with respect to federal and state taxation, may cause our results of operations to differ   38   materially. in addition, the cost and burden of compliance, over time, have significantly increased and could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. further, federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for astoria federal, as well as for our borrowers, particularly as implemented through the federal reserve system, primarily through open market operations in u.s. government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements. a material change in any of these conditions could have a material impact on astoria federal or our borrowers, and therefore on our results of operations. as a result of the financial crisis which occurred in the banking and financial markets, the u.s. government implemented various programs to stabilize the u.s. financial markets. we expect to continue to face increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the financial crisis and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed on us to the extent that we participate in any of the programs established or to be established by the treasury or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. the fdic restoration plan and related rulemaking may have a further material impact on our results of operations. in light of the failures of a significant number of banks and thrifts over the past several years, which has resulted in substantial losses to the dif, in july 2010, the reform act increased the minimum designated reserve ratio for the dif from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, which must be reached by september 30, 2020, and provides that in setting the assessments necessary to meet the new requirement, the fdic shall offset the effect of this provision on insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion, so that more of the cost of raising the reserve ratio will be borne by the institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, such as astoria federal. in october 2010, the fdic adopted a new restoration plan to ensure that the dif reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by september 30, 2020, as required by the reform act. the fdic pursued further rulemaking in 2011 regarding the method that will be used to reach the reserve ratio of 1.35% so that more of the cost of raising the reserve ratio to 1.35% will be borne by institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. on february 7, 2011, the fdic adopted a final rule that redefines the assessment base for deposit insurance assessments as average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than on deposit bases, as required by the reform act, and revises the risk-based assessment system for all large insured depository institutions as described in greater detail under “regulation and supervision - insurance of deposit accounts.” the adoption of this final rule could result in even higher fdic deposit insurance assessments effective april 1, 2011, which could further increase non-interest expense and have a material impact on our results of operations. the recent adoption of regulatory reform legislation has created uncertainty and may have a material effect on our operations and capital requirements. as a result of the financial crisis which occurred in the banking and financial markets commencing in the second half of 2007, the overall bank regulatory climate is now marked by caution, conservatism and a renewed focus on compliance and risk management. there are many provisions of the reform act which are to be implemented through regulations to be adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies within specified time frames following the effective date of the reform act, which creates a risk of uncertainty as to the effect that such provisions will ultimately have. although it is not possible for us to determine at this time whether the reform act will have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we believe the following provisions of the reform act will have an impact on us:   · the elimination of our primary federal regulator, the ots, and the assumption by the occ of regulatory authority over all federal savings associations, such as astoria federal, and the acquisition by the frb of regulatory authority over all savings and loan holding companies, such   39     as astoria financial corporation, as well as all subsidiaries of savings and loan holding companies other than depository institutions. although the laws and regulations currently applicable to us generally will not change by virtue of the elimination of the ots (except to the extent such laws have been modified by the reform act), the application of these laws and regulations may vary as administered by the occ and the frb.   · the creation of the cfpb, which will have the authority to implement and enforce a variety of existing consumer protection statutes and to issue new regulations and, with respect to institutions of our size, will have exclusive examination and enforcement authority with respect to such laws and regulations. as a new independent bureau within the frb, it is possible that the cfpb will focus more attention on consumers and may impose requirements more severe than the previous bank regulatory agencies, which at a minimum, could increase our operating and compliance costs.   · the significant roll back of the federal preemption of state consumer protection laws that is currently enjoyed by federal savings associations and national banks. as a result, we may now be subject to state consumer protection laws in each state where we do business, and those laws may be interpreted and enforced differently in different states.   · the establishment of consolidated risk-based and leverage capital requirements for insured depository institutions, depository institution holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial companies, as discussed below.   · the increase in the minimum designated reserve ratio for the dif from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, which must be reached by september 30, 2020, and the requirement that deposit insurance assessments be based on average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than on deposit bases. as a result of these provisions, our deposit insurance premiums are expected to increase, and the increase may be substantial, as previously discussed. the reform act also includes provisions, subject to further rulemaking by the federal bank regulatory agencies, that may affect our future operations, including provisions that create minimum standards for the origination of mortgage loans, restrict proprietary trading by banking entities, restrict the sponsorship of and investment in hedge funds and private equity funds by banking entities and remove certain obstacles to the conversion of savings associations to national banks. we will not be able to determine the impact of these provisions until final rules are promulgated to implement these provisions and other regulatory guidance is provided interpreting these provisions. as a result of the reform act and other proposed changes, we may become subject to more stringent capital requirements. the reform act requires the federal banking agencies to establish consolidated risk-based and leverage capital requirements for insured depository institutions, depository institution holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial companies. these requirements must be no less than those to which insured depository institutions are currently subject, and the new requirements will effectively eliminate the use of trust preferred securities as a component of tier 1 capital for depository institution holding companies of our size. as a result, in july 2015, we will become subject to consolidated capital requirements which we have not been subject to previously, and we will not be permitted to include our capital securities as a component of tier 1 capital when we become subject to these consolidated capital requirements. in addition, the basel committee on banking supervision recently announced the new “basel iii” capital rules, which set new standards for common equity, tier 1 and total capital, determined on a risk-weighted basis. it is not yet known how these standards, which will be phased in over a period of years, will be implemented by u.s. regulators generally or how they will be applied to financial institutions of our size.   40   the recently publicized foreclosure issues affecting the nation’s largest mortgage loan servicers could impact our foreclosure process and timing to completion of foreclosures. several of the nation’s largest mortgage loan servicers have experienced highly publicized issues with respect to their foreclosure processes. as a result, some of these servicers have self imposed moratoriums on their foreclosures and have been the subject of state attorney general scrutiny and consumer lawsuits. in light of these issues, we have reviewed our foreclosure policies and procedures and have not found it necessary to interrupt any foreclosures. these foreclosure process issues and the potential legal and regulatory responses could impact the foreclosure process and timing to completion of foreclosures for residential mortgage lenders, including astoria federal. over the past few years, foreclosure timelines have increased due to, among other reasons, delays associated with the significant increase in the number of foreclosure cases as a result of the economic crisis, additional consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process and voluntary and, in some cases, mandatory programs intended to permit or require lenders to consider loan modifications or other alternatives to foreclosure. further increases in the foreclosure timeline may have an adverse effect on collateral values and our ability to minimize our losses. our ability to originate mortgage loans for portfolio has been adversely affected by the increased competition resulting from the unprecedented involvement of the u.s. government and gses in the residential mortgage market. over the past few years, we have faced increased competition for mortgage loans due to the unprecedented involvement of the gses in the mortgage market as a result of the recent economic crisis, which has caused the interest rate for thirty year fixed rate mortgage loans that conform to gse guidelines to remain artificially low. in addition, the u.s. congress recently extended through september 2011 the expanded conforming loan limits in many of our operating markets, allowing larger balance loans to continue to be acquired by the gses. as a result, more loans in our portfolio qualified under the expanded conforming loan limits and were refinanced into conforming fixed rate mortgages which we originate but do not retain for portfolio. we expect that our one-to-four family mortgage loan repayments will remain at elevated levels and will continue to outpace our loan production as a result of these factors, making it difficult for us to grow our mortgage loan portfolio and balance sheet. both fannie mae and freddie mac are under conservatorship with the federal housing finance agency. on february 11, 2011, the obama administration presented the u.s. congress with a report of its proposals for reforming america’s housing finance market with the goal of scaling back the role of the u.s. government in, and promoting the return of private capital to, the mortgage markets and ultimately winding down fannie mae and freddie mac. without mentioning a specific time frame, the report calls for the reduction of the role of fannie mae and freddie mac in the mortgage markets by, among other things, reducing conforming loan limits, increasing guarantee fees and requiring larger down payments by borrowers. the report presents three options for the long-term structure of housing finance, all of which call for the unwinding of fannie mae and freddie mac and a reduced role of the government in the mortgage market: (1) a system with u.s. government insurance limited to a narrowly targeted group of borrowers; (2) a system similar to (1) above except with an expanded guarantee during times of crisis; and (3) a system where the u.s. government offers catastrophic reinsurance for the securities of a targeted range of mortgages behind significant private capital. we cannot be certain if or when fannie mae and freddie mac will be wound down, if or when reform of the housing finance market will be implemented or what the future role of the u.s. government will be in the mortgage market, and, accordingly, we will not be able to determine the impact that any such reform may have on us until a definitive reform plan is adopted.   changes in the fair value of our securities may reduce our stockholders’ equity and net income. at december 31, 2010, $562.0 million of our securities were classified as available-for-sale. the estimated fair value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on     41     changes in interest rates. in general, as interest rates rise, the estimated fair value of our fixed rate securities portfolio will decrease. our securities portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed rate securities. we increase or decrease stockholders’ equity by the amount of the change in the unrealized gain or loss (difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax effect, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss. therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholders’ equity, as well as book value per common share and tangible book value per common share. this decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. in the case of debt securities, if these securities are never sold, the decrease will be recovered over the life of the securities. we conduct a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. factors which we consider in our analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, our intent and ability to not sell the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. we generally view changes in fair value caused by changes in interest rates as temporary, which is consistent with our experience. if we deem such decline to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income, except for the amount of the total otti for a debt security that does not represent credit losses which is recognized in other comprehensive income/loss, net of applicable taxes. we have, in the past, recorded otti charges. we continue to monitor the fair value of our securities portfolio as part of our ongoing otti evaluation process. no assurance can be given that we will not need to recognize otti charges related to securities in the future. item 1b.      unresolved