item 1a. risk factors we are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as described below. these risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face and there may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider immaterial. all of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our equity securities may be adversely affected if any of such risks result in a material adverse effect upon our operations and/or financial condition.  7 we are subject to risks inherent in the real estate business and operation of a reit.  we own and manage multifamily apartment communities that are subject to varying degrees of risk generally incident to the ownership of real estate. our financial condition, the value of our properties and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders will be dependent upon our continued access to the debt and equity markets and our ability to operate our properties in a manner sufficient to generate income in excess of operating expenses and debt service charges, which may be affected by the following risks, some of which are discussed in more detail below: • changes in the economic climate in the markets in which we own and manage properties, including interest rates, the overall level of economic activity, the availability of consumer credit and mortgage financing, unemployment rates and other factors; • elimination of, or limitations on, federal government support for fannie mae and/or freddie mac that might result in significantly reduced availability of mortgage financing sources, as well as increases in interest rates for mortgage financing; • our ability to refinance debt on favorable terms at maturity; • risks of a lessening of demand for the multifamily units that we own; • competition from other available multifamily units, single family units available for rental or purchase, and changes in market rental rates; • the failure of development projects or redevelopment activities to achieve expected results due to, among other causes, construction and contracting risks, unanticipated increases in materials and/or labor, delays in project completion and/or lease-up that result in increased costs and/or reduce the profitability of a completed project, and the absence of our right to control all activities and decisions of joint venture developments where the applicable agreement allocate decision making authority to, or require the consent of, our joint venture partner; • the failure to enter into development joint venture arrangements on acceptable terms; • increases in property and liability insurance costs; • unanticipated increases in real estate taxes and other operating expenses; • weather conditions that adversely affect operating expenses; • expenditures that cannot be anticipated such as utility rate and usage increases and unanticipated repairs; • our inability to control operating expenses or achieve increases in revenue; • shareholder ownership limitations that may discourage a takeover otherwise considered favorable by shareholders; • the results of litigation involving us; • changes in tax legislation; • risks of personal injury and property damage claims that are not covered by our insurance; • catastrophic property damage losses that are not covered by our insurance; • risks associated with property acquisitions, such as failure to achieve expected results or matters not discovered in due diligence; and • risks related to the perception of residents and prospective residents as to the attractiveness, convenience and safety of our properties or the neighborhoods in which they are located.  8 we are dependent on rental income from our multifamily apartment communities. if we are unable to attract and retain residents, or if our residents are unable to pay their rental obligations, our financial condition and funds available for distribution to our shareholders may be adversely affected. our multifamily apartment communities are subject to competition.  our apartment communities are located in developed areas that include other apartment communities and compete with other housing alternatives, such as condominiums, single family and multifamily rental homes and owner occupied single family and multifamily homes. foreclosed single family homes that become rental properties could create additional competition in certain of our markets. such competition may impact our rental rates, and affect our ability to attract and retain residents. our insurance may not be adequate to cover certain risks. there are certain types of risks, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, windstorms, acts of war and terrorist attacks that may be uninsurable, are not economically insurable, or are not fully covered by insurance. moreover, certain risks, such as mold and environmental exposures and certain employment related claims, generally are not covered by our insurance. other risks are subject to various limits, sub-limits, deductibles and self insurance retentions, which help to control insurance costs, but which may result in increased exposures to uninsured losses. significant uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. secured debt financing could adversely affect our performance.  at december 31, 2013, 11 of our 53 operating properties were encumbered by project specific, non-recourse, and non-cross-collateralized mortgage debt. there is a risk that these properties may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to pay required principal and interest. we may not be able to refinance these loans at an amount equal to the loan balance, and the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. if we are unable to make required payments on indebtedness that is secured by a mortgage, the property securing the mortgage may be foreclosed with a consequent loss of income and value to us. although fannie mae and freddie mac continue to provide needed financing to qualified borrowers, such as us, there is no assurance that those mortgage capital sources will remain available or available on competitively favorable terms. additional sources of secured financing are provided by life insurance companies, commercial banks and commercial mortgage-backed securities ("cmbs"), which from time-to-time offer terms competitive with fannie mae and freddie mac. we believe that we currently have access to such financing at competitive terms; however, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available or that we will qualify for such financing in the future. in addition, there are currently numerous proposals before congress that could curtail the lending ability of fannie mae and freddie mac. financial covenants could limit our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.  the agreements governing our unsecured credit facilities contain certain restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur additional secured and unsecured debt, commence project construction, acquire additional land or development projects and make other strategic investments or business acquisitions or dispositions. these agreements also contain certain financial and operating covenants including, among other things, maintenance of certain financial ratios. additionally, our unsecured notes contain certain provisions that mirror the requirements of our unsecured credit facilities. our unsecured credit facilities and unsecured notes are cross-defaulted and also contain cross default provisions with all of our other outstanding indebtedness of $25.0 million or more. real estate investments are generally illiquid, and we may not be able to sell our properties when it is economically or strategically advantageous to do so.  real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly, and our ability to sell properties may be adversely affected by market conditions. we may not be able to further diversify or vary our portfolio in accordance with our strategies or in response to economic or other conditions. in addition, provisions of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"), limit the ability of a reit to sell its properties in some situations when it may be economically advantageous to do so, thereby potentially adversely affecting our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.  9 litigation may result in unfavorable outcomes.  like many real estate operators, we are frequently involved in lawsuits, including those pertaining to premises liability claims, housing discrimination claims and alleged violations of landlord-tenant laws, which may give rise to class action litigation or governmental investigations. any material litigation not covered by insurance, such as a class action, could result in substantial costs being incurred. the costs of complying with laws and regulations could adversely affect our cash flow. our properties must comply with title iii of the americans with disabilities act (the "ada") to the extent that they are "public accommodations" or "commercial facilities" as defined in the ada. the ada does not consider apartment communities to be public accommodations or commercial facilities, except for portions of such communities, such as leasing offices and commercial space, that are open to the public. in addition, the fair housing amendments act of 1988 (the "fhaa") requires apartment communities first occupied after march 13, 1990, to be accessible to disabled individuals. other state and local laws also require apartment communities to be disability accessible. the fhaa also prohibits discrimination against protected classes of individuals. noncompliance with these laws could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. we have been subject to lawsuits alleging violations of accessible design laws in connection with certain of our properties. under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. this liability may be imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the substances. other laws impose on owners and operators certain requirements regarding conditions and activities that may affect human health or the environment. failure to comply with applicable requirements could complicate our ability to lease or sell an affected property and could subject us to monetary penalties, costs required to achieve compliance and potential liability to third parties. all of our properties and development sites have been the subject of environmental assessments completed by qualified independent environmental consulting companies. while these environmental assessments have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that our management believes would have a material adverse effect, there can be no assurance that we will not incur such liabilities in the future. there have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. as some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements, insurance carriers have reacted by excluding mold-related claims from standard policies and pricing mold endorsements at prohibitively high rates. while we have adopted programs designed to minimize the existence of mold in any of our properties as well as guidelines for promptly addressing and resolving reports of mold to minimize any impact mold might have on our residents and our properties, should mold become an issue in the future, our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. further, it is possible that material environmental contamination or conditions exist, or could arise in the future in our apartment communities or on the land upon which they are located or be present in land or improvements which we may acquire in the future. changes in applicable laws could adversely affect our operations or expose us to liability. in addition to the costs of compliance with applicable laws currently in effect, applicable laws are subject to change and new legislation may be enacted, all of which may have the effect of increasing our costs of compliance and/or exposing us to increased potential liabilities. compliance with changes in: (i) laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions; (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws; (iii) increased construction costs for additional accommodations for disabled residents; (iv) required employee benefits, such as health care coverage, or additional employer obligations; or (v) other governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the use and operation of our communities, including changes to building codes and fire and life-safety codes, may result in lower revenue growth or significant unanticipated expenditures.  10 we are subject to risks associated with development, acquisition, disposition and expansion of multifamily apartment communities.  development projects, acquisitions, dispositions and expansions of apartment communities are subject to a number of risks, including: • availability of acceptable financing; • competition with other entities for investment opportunities, dispositions, development or construction services or tenants; • failure by our properties to achieve anticipated operating results; • failure to avoid retained liabilities with respect to property dispositions or assumed liabilities with respect to property acquisitions; • development costs of a property exceeding estimates; • delays in construction of developments or expansions due to weather, required governmental approvals and/or unavailability of labor and materials; • expenditure of funds on, and the devotion of management time to, transactions that may not come to fruition; • construction and construction business risks, including, without limitation, rapid and unanticipated increases in prices of building materials and commodities; and • additional costs due to environmental contamination. failure to succeed in new markets or in activities ancillary to the development, ownership and operation of multifamily apartment communities may adversely effect our operations. we may, from time to time, commence development activity or make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas when appropriate opportunities arise. our experience in our existing markets in acquiring, developing, owning and operating multifamily apartment communities does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets when we choose to enter them.  entering new markets may expose us to a variety of risks, including an inability to accurately evaluate local apartment market conditions; an inability to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities; an inability to hire and retain key personnel; and lack of familiarity with local governmental requirements.  although we are primarily in the multifamily business, we may also own and lease ancillary commercial space when such ancillary rental activities are a component of our multifamily rental activities.  we may be unsuccessful in owning and leasing ancillary commercial space at or adjacent to our apartment communities, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we impose stock ownership limitations that may discourage a takeover otherwise considered favorable by shareholders. with certain limited exceptions, our second amended and restated articles of incorporation, as amended, prohibit the ownership of more than 4.0% of our outstanding common shares and more than 9.8% of the shares of any series of any class of our preferred shares by any person, (the "ownership limit"), unless we grant a waiver. absent such a waiver, any shares owned in excess of such ownership limit are subject to repurchase by us and to other consequences as set forth in our second amended and restated articles of incorporation, as amended. a transfer of shares may be void if it causes a person to violate the ownership limit. the ownership limit could delay or prevent a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect our security holders' ability to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for their shares. we have a shareholders rights plan which would delay or prevent a change in control.  we also have a shareholders rights plan, which may be triggered if any person or group becomes the beneficial owner of, or announces an offer to acquire, 15.0% or more of our common shares. while our board of directors believes that our shareholders rights plan could assist in maximizing value for our shareholders in a change in control transaction, our shareholders rights plan is likely to have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us without our consent.  11 we may fail to qualify as a reit.  commencing with our taxable year ending december 31, 1993, we have operated in a manner so as to permit us to qualify as a reit under the code, and we intend to continue to operate in such a manner. many of the reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. we cannot, therefore, guarantee that we have qualified or will qualify in the future as a reit. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters that may not be totally within our control. for example, to qualify as a reit, our gross income must generally come from rental and other real estate or passive related sources that are itemized in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to security holders at least 90.0% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. if we were to fail to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our shareholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. unless we are entitled to relief under certain code provisions, we also would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which reit qualification was lost. as a result, the cash available for distribution to our shareholders could be reduced or eliminated for each of the years involved. changes in tax laws could adversely affect the value of our common stock. if congress enacts legislation that eliminates the reit provisions from the code or otherwise decreases the advantages of qualified reit status under the code, such as imposing a direct tax on some or all of our real estate related income, such legislation would likely have an adverse impact upon the market value of our common stock and might also result in a reduction of the dividends payable on our common stock. we depend on our key personnel.  our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contribution of key members of our management team, who may be difficult to replace. the loss of services of these executives could have a material adverse effect on us. there can be no assurance that the services of such personnel will continue to be available to us. our chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer, mr. jeffrey i. friedman, is a party to an employment agreement with us. other than mr. friedman, we do not have employment agreements with key personnel. we do not hold key-man life insurance on any of our key personnel. item 1b. unresolved