item 1a. risk factors   risks related to our business and operations   the recent global economic and financial market crisis has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business and operations.     the recent global economic and financial market crisis has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer confidence and net worth, all of which has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  many of our tenants have been affected by the current economic turmoil.  current or potential tenants may delay or postpone entering into long-term net leases with us which could continue to lead to reduced demand for commercial real estate.  we are also limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn given certain fixed costs and commitments associated with our operations.   the timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected.  such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks.  the foregoing conditions may also impact the valuation of certain long-lived or intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges which may be material to our financial condition or results of operations.   capital markets are currently experiencing a period of dislocation and instability, which has had and could continue to have a negative impact on the availability and cost of capital.     the general disruption in the u.s. capital markets has impacted the broader worldwide financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole.  these conditions could persist for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future.  our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions.  the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity.  in addition, the cost of debt financing and the proceeds of equity financing may be materially adversely impacted by these market conditions.   single tenant leases involve significant risks of tenant default.     we focus our development and investment activities on ownership of real properties that are leased to a single tenant.  therefore, the financial failure of, or other default in payment by, a single tenant under its lease is likely to cause a significant reduction in our operating cash flows from that property and a significant reduction in the value of the property, and could cause a significant reduction in our revenues and a significant impairment loss.  we may also experience difficulty or a significant delay in re-leasing such property.  the current economic conditions and the credit crisis may put financial pressure on and increase the likelihood of the financial failure of, or other default in payment by, one or more of the tenants to whom we have exposure.   failure by any major tenant with leases in multiple locations to make rental payments to us, because of a deterioration of its financial condition or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on us.   we derive substantially all of our revenue from tenants who lease space from us at our properties.  therefore, our ability to generate cash from operations is dependent on the rents that we are able to charge and collect from our tenants.  at any time, our tenants may experience a downturn in their business that may significantly weaken their financial condition, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty.  as a result, our tenants may delay lease commencements, decline to extend or renew leases upon expiration, fail to make rental payments when due, close a number of stores or declare bankruptcy.  any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenant’s leases and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated leases.  in addition, lease terminations by a major tenant or a failure by that major tenant to occupy the premises could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping centers under the terms of some leases.  in that event, we may be unable to re-lease the vacated space at attractive rents or at all.  the occurrence of any of the situations described above would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition.   see “—we rely significantly on three major tenants, and therefore, are subject to tenant credit concentrations that make us more susceptible to adverse events with respect to those tenants” below.     5     we rely significantly on three major tenants, and therefore, are subject to tenant credit concentrations that make us more susceptible to adverse events with respect to those tenants.     as of december 31, 2010, we derived approximately 62% of our annualized base rent from three major tenants:     · approximately 31% of our annualized base rent was from walgreen;     · approximately 20% of our annualized base rent was from borders; and     · approximately 11% of our annualized base rent was from kmart.   in addition, a significant portion of our 2009 and 2010 development projects were for walgreen.  in the event of a default by any of these tenants under their leases, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as lessor and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment.  any bankruptcy, insolvency or failure to make rental payments by, or any adverse change in the financial condition of, one or more of these tenants, or any other tenant to whom we may have a significant credit concentration now or in the future, would likely result in a material reduction of our cash flows or material losses to our company.   as discussed in more detail below under item 2. “properties—development and acquisition summary,” borders reported a net (loss) for its 2009 fiscal year ended january 31, 2010 of approximately ($109 million).   in addition, on february 16, 2011, borders filed a petition for reorganization relief under chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code.  the chapter 11 petition for relief was filed in the u.s. bankruptcy court, southern district of new york.  borders has announced that it has received commitments for $505 million in debtor-in-possession financing led by ge capital, restructuring finance.  borders also announced it plans to undertake a strategic store reduction program to facilitate reorganization and has identified certain underperforming stores, equivalent to approximately 30% of the company’s national store network, that are expected to close in the next several weeks.  borders disclosed an intention to close stores at five locations where it leases space from us, representing approximately $2.6 million of our annualized base rent as of december 31, 2010.   the chapter 11 bankruptcy will allow borders to assume or reject any of its leases with us (including the leases for the five properties on the store closing list recently published by borders).  the rejection of any of the leases would have a negative effect on our rental revenues and cash flows.  borders may also propose rent reductions under any of the leases, which if accepted by us would have a negative effect on our rental revenues and cash flows.  it is also possible that borders may assume leases for some locations, which would require borders to abide by the existing lease terms.  until borders determines its plan under chapter 11, we cannot determine the impact on our rental revenues and cash flows. in addition, because borders is a significant tenant, negative information about its performance, financial condition and business prospects (including its bankruptcy filing) may adversely affect the market and price of our common stock.   bankruptcy laws will limit our remedies if a tenant becomes bankrupt and rejects the lease.   if a tenant becomes bankrupt or insolvent, that could diminish the income we receive from that tenant’s leases.  we may not be able to evict a tenant solely because of its bankruptcy.  on the other hand, a bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to terminate its leasehold with us.  if that happens, our claim against the bankrupt tenant for unpaid future rent would be an unsecured prepetition claim subject to statutory limitations, and therefore such amounts received in bankruptcy are likely to be substantially less than the remaining rent we otherwise were owed under the leases.  in addition, any claim we have for unpaid past rent could be substantially less than the amount owed.       6     certain of our tenants at our community shopping centers have the right to terminate their leases if other tenants cease to occupy a property.     in the event that certain tenants cease to occupy a property, although under most circumstances such a tenant would remain liable for its lease payments, such an action may result in certain other tenants at our community shopping centers having the right to terminate their leases at the affected property, which could adversely affect the future income from that property.  as of december 31, 2010, each of our 12 community shopping centers had tenants with those provisions in their leases.   our portfolio has limited geographic diversification, which makes us more susceptible to adverse events in these areas.     our properties are located primarily in the mid-western united states and in particular, the state of michigan (with 43 properties).  an economic downturn or other adverse events or conditions such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters in these areas, or any other area where we may have significant concentration now or in the future, could result in a material reduction of our cash flows or material losses to our company.   risks associated with our development and acquisition activities.   we intend to continue the development of new properties and to consider possible acquisitions of existing properties.  we anticipate that our new developments will be financed under lines of credit or other forms of construction financing that will result in a risk that permanent financing on newly developed projects might not be available or would be available only on disadvantageous terms.  in addition, new project development is subject to a number of risks, including risks of construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs, risks that the properties will not achieve anticipated occupancy levels or sustain anticipated rental projections and new project commencement risks such as receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations and the incurrence of development costs in connection with projects that are not pursued to completion.  if permanent debt or equity financing is not available on acceptable terms to refinance new development or acquisitions undertaken without permanent financing, further development activities or acquisitions might be curtailed or cash available for distribution might be adversely affected.  acquisitions entail risks that investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations and that judgments with respect to the costs of improvements to bring an acquired property up to standards established for the market position intended for that property will prove inaccurate, as well as general investment risks associated with any new real estate investment.   properties that we acquire or develop may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar market.   we may acquire or develop properties in markets that are new to us.  when we acquire or develop properties located in these markets, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures.   we own several of our properties subject to ground leases that expose us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases and may limit our ability to sell these properties.   we own several of our properties through leasehold interests in the land underlying the buildings and we may acquire additional buildings in the future that are subject to similar ground leases.  as lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination, or an earlier breach by us, of the ground lease, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock.     7     our ground leases contain certain provisions that may limit our ability to sell certain of our properties.  in order to assign or transfer our rights and obligations under certain of our ground leases, we generally must obtain the consent of the landlord which, in turn, could adversely impact the price realized from any such sale.   joint venture investments will expose us to certain risks.   we may from time to time enter into joint venture transactions for portions of our existing or future real estate assets.  investing in this manner subjects us to certain risks, among them the following:     · we will not exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the joint venture’s business and assets and, thus, we may not be able to take actions that we believe are in our company’s best interests.     · we may be required to accept liability for obligations of the joint venture (such as recourse carve-outs on mortgage loans) beyond our economic interest.     · our returns on joint venture assets may be adversely affected if the assets are not held for the long-term.   the availability and timing of cash distributions is uncertain.   we expect to continue to pay quarterly distributions to our stockholders.  however, we bear all expenses incurred by our operations, and our funds generated by operations, after deducting these expenses, may not be sufficient to cover desired levels of distributions to our stockholders.  in addition, our board of directors, in its discretion, may retain any portion of such cash for working capital.  we cannot assure our stockholders that sufficient funds will be available to pay distributions.   we depend on our key personnel.     our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain key personnel including, but not limited to, our executive officers, each of whom would be difficult to replace.  if any of our key personnel were to cease employment with us, our operating results could suffer. our ability to retain our executive officers or to attract suitable replacements should any members of the management group leave is dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market.  the loss of services from key members of the management group or a limitation in their availability could adversely impact our future development or acquisition operations, our financial condition and cash flows.  further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets.  we have not obtained and do not expect to obtain key man life insurance on any of our key personnel.   we face significant competition.     we face competition in seeking properties for acquisition and tenants who will lease space in these properties from insurance companies, credit companies, pension or private equity funds, private individuals, investment companies, other reits and other industry participants, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we do.  there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete with such entities in our development, acquisition and leasing activities in the future.   general real estate risk   our performance and value are subject to general economic conditions and risks associated with our real estate    assets.   there are risks associated with owning and leasing real estate.  although many of our leases contain terms that obligate the tenants to bear substantially all of the costs of operating our properties, investing in real estate involves a number of risks.  income from and the value of our properties may be adversely affected by:     8       · changes in general or local economic conditions;     · the attractiveness of our properties to potential tenants;     · changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area;     · bankruptcies, financial difficulties or lease defaults by our tenants;     · changes in operating costs and expense and our ability to control rents;     · our ability to lease properties at favorable rental rates;     · our ability to sell a property when we desire to do so at a favorable price;     · unanticipated changes in costs associated with known adverse environmental conditions or retained liabilities for such conditions;     · changes in or increased costs of compliance with governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws, and our potential liability thereunder; and     · unanticipated expenditures to comply with the americans with disabilities act and other similar regulations.   the global economic and financial market crisis has exacerbated many of the foregoing risks.  if a tenant fails to perform on its lease covenants, that would not excuse us from meeting any mortgage debt obligation secured by the property and could require us to fund reserves in favor of our mortgage lenders, thereby reducing funds available for payment of cash dividends on our shares of common stock.   the fact that real estate investments are relatively illiquid may reduce economic returns to investors.     we may desire to sell a property in the future because of changes in market conditions or poor tenant performance or to avail ourselves of other opportunities.  we may also be required to sell a property in the future to meet secured debt obligations or to avoid a secured debt loan default.  real estate properties cannot always be sold quickly, and we cannot assure you that we could always obtain a favorable price, especially in light of the current global economic and financial market crisis.  we may be required to invest in the restoration or modification of a property before we can sell it.  this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions and, as a result, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to pay distributions on our common stock.   our ability to renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire significantly affects our business.     we are subject to the risks that, upon expiration of leases for space located in our properties, the premises may not be re-let or the terms of re-letting (including the cost of concessions to tenants) may be less favorable than current lease terms.  if a tenant does not renew its lease or if a tenant defaults on its lease obligations, there is no assurance we could obtain a substitute tenant on acceptable terms.  if we cannot obtain another tenant with comparable structural needs, we may be required to modify the property for a different use, which may involve a significant capital expenditure and a delay in re-leasing the property.  further, if we are unable to re-let promptly all or a substantial portion of our retail space or if the rental rates upon such re-letting were significantly lower than expected rates, our net income and ability to make expected distributions to stockholders would be adversely affected.  there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain tenants in any of our properties upon the expiration of their leases.     9     a property that incurs a vacancy could be difficult to sell or re-lease.   a property may incur a vacancy either by the continued default of a tenant under its lease or the expiration of one of our leases.  certain of our properties may be specifically suited to the particular needs of a tenant.  we may have difficulty obtaining a new tenant for any vacant space we have in our properties.  if the vacancy continues for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash available to be distributed to stockholders.  in addition, the resale value of a property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend principally upon the value of the leases of such property.   potential liability for environmental contamination could result in substantial costs.     under federal, state and local environmental laws, we may be required to investigate and clean up any release of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at our properties, regardless of our knowledge or actual responsibility, simply because of our current or past ownership or operation of the real estate.  if unidentified environmental problems arise, we may have to make substantial payments, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.  this potential liability results from the following:     · as owner we may have to pay for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with the contamination.     · the law may impose clean-up responsibility and liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination.     · even if more than one person is responsible for the contamination, each person who shares legal liability under environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs.     · governmental entities and third parties may sue the owner or operator of a contaminated site for damages and costs.   these costs could be substantial and in extreme cases could exceed the value of the contaminated property.  the presence of hazardous substances or petroleum products or the failure to properly remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or lease an affected property.  in addition, some environmental laws create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with a contamination.   a majority of our leases require our tenants to comply with environmental laws and to indemnify us against environmental liability arising from the operation of the properties. however, we could be subject to strict liability under environmental laws because we own the properties.  there is also a risk that tenants may not satisfy their environmental compliance and indemnification obligations under the leases.  any of these events could substantially increase our cost of operations, require us to fund environmental indemnities in favor of our secured lenders and reduce our ability to service our secured debt and pay dividends to stockholders and any debt security interest payments.  environmental problems at any properties could also put us in default under loans secured by those properties, as well as loans secured by unaffected properties.   uninsured losses relating to real property may adversely affect our returns.     our leases require tenants to carry comprehensive liability and extended coverage insurance on our properties.  however, there are certain losses, including losses from environmental liabilities, terrorist acts or catastrophic acts of nature, that are not generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so.  if there is an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insurance limits, we could lose both the revenues generated by the affected property and the capital we have invested in the property.  in the event of a substantial unreimbursed loss, we would remain obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property.     10     risks related to our debt financings   leveraging our portfolio subjects us to increased risk of loss, including loss of properties in the event of a foreclosure.     at december 31, 2010, our ratio of indebtedness to market capitalization (assuming conversion of op units) was approximately 38%.  the use of leverage presents an additional element of risk in the event that (1) the cash flow from lease payments on our properties is insufficient to meet debt obligations, (2) we are unable to refinance our debt obligations as necessary or on as favorable terms or (3) there is an increase in interest rates.  if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the property could be foreclosed upon with a consequent loss of income and asset value to us.  under the “cross-default” provisions contained in mortgages encumbering some of our properties, our default under a mortgage with a lender would result in our default under mortgages held by the same lender on other properties resulting in multiple foreclosures.   as discussed in more detail below under “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations,” we have seven mortgaged properties leased to borders that serve as collateral for seven non-recourse loans, including four mortgages that are cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized.  the balances on the non-recourse loans amount to approximately $18.5 million as of december 31, 2010, including $9.6 million under the cross-collateralized loans. as of the date of this filing, and based on the chapter 11 bankruptcy filing of borders, we are now in default on three mortgage loans amounting to approximately $8.9 million secured by a total of three properties with 366,000 square feet of gla representing $1.3 million of annualized base rents as of december 31, 2010.  while the chapter 11 bankruptcy filing of borders is not a direct event of default under the cross-collateralized mortgage loans, we anticipate that the remaining loans will go into default as a result of the scheduled store closures.  these four mortgage loans amounting to approximately $9.6 million are secured by four properties with 103,000 square feet of gla representing $2.1 million of annualized base rents as of december 31, 2010.  we are in the process of commencing negotiations with lenders for all seven loans regarding an appropriate course of action.  we can provide no assurance that our negotiations with the lenders will result in favorable outcomes to us.  failure to restructure our mortgage obligations could result in default and foreclosure actions and loss of the mortgaged properties.  in addition, as a result of cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions contained in certain of our mortgage loans, a default under one mortgage loan could result in a default on other indebtedness and cause us to lose other better performing properties, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we intend to maintain a ratio of total indebtedness (including construction or acquisition financing) to market capitalization of 65% or less.  nevertheless, we may operate with debt levels which are in excess of 65% of market capitalization for extended periods of time.  our organization documents contain no limitation on the amount or percentage of indebtedness which we may incur.  therefore, our board of directors, without a vote of the stockholders, could alter the general policy on borrowings at any time.  if our debt capitalization policy were changed, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect our operating cash flow and our ability to make expected distributions to stockholders, and could result in an increased risk of default on our obligations.   covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition.   the terms of our credit facilities and other indebtedness require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants.  these covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness even if we have satisfied our payment obligations.  our credit facility contains certain cross-default provisions which are triggered in the event that our other indebtedness is in default.  these cross-default provisions may require us to repay or restructure the credit facility in addition to any mortgage or other debt that is in default. if our properties were foreclosed upon, or if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flows and our financial condition would be adversely affected.  we have provided substitute borrowing base properties to replace borders stores under the credit facility, and the banks have acknowledged that the financial condition of borders and any default under any of the non-recourse loans secured by a property leased to borders shall not be deemed a default under the credit facility.     11     credit market developments may reduce availability under our credit agreements.     due to the current volatile state of the credit markets, there is risk that lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including but not limited to: extending credit up to the maximum permitted by a credit facility, allowing access to additional credit features and/or honoring loan commitments.  if our lender(s) fail to honor their legal commitments under our credit facilities, it could be difficult in the current environment to replace our credit facilities on similar terms.  the failure of any of the lenders under our credit facility may impact our ability to finance our operating or investing activities.   risks related to our corporate structure   our charter and maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction.   our charter contains a 9.8% ownership limit. our charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a reit and to limit any person to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares of common stock and preferred stock, except that the any member of the agree-rosenberg group (as defined in our charter) (the “agree-rosenberg group”) may own up to 24%.  our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, any person from the ownership limit. however, our board of directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership limit to any person whose ownership, direct or indirect, in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares of common stock and preferred stock could jeopardize our status as a reit.  these restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a reit.  the ownership limit may delay or impede, and we may use the ownership limit deliberately to delay or impede, a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.   we have a staggered board.  our directors are divided into three classes serving three-year staggered terms.  the staggering of our board of directors may discourage offers for our company or make an acquisition more difficult, even when an acquisition is in the best interest of our stockholders.   we have a shareholder rights plan. under the terms of this plan, we can in effect prevent a person or group from acquiring more than 15% of the outstanding shares of our common stock because, unless we approve of the acquisition, after the person acquires more than 15% of our outstanding common stock, all other stockholders will have the right to purchase securities from us at a price that is less than their then fair market value.  this would substantially reduce the value and influence of the stock owned by the acquiring person.  our board of directors can prevent the plan from operating by approving the transaction in advance, which gives us significant power to approve or disapprove of the efforts of a person or group to acquire a large interest in our company.   we could issue stock without stockholder approval. our board of directors could, without stockholder approval, issue authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock.  in addition, our board of directors could, without stockholder approval, classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or reclassified shares.  our board of directors could establish a series of stock that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.   provisions of maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company.  certain provisions of maryland law may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under certain circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of such shares, including:     12       · “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and thereafter would require the recommendation of our board of directors and impose special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and     · “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.   the business combination statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are approved or exempted by the board of directors before the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder.  our board of directors has exempted from the business combination provisions of the mgcl any business combination with mr. richard agree or any other person acting in concert or as a group with mr. richard agree.   in addition, our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any members of the agree-rosenberg group, our other officers, our employees, any of the associates or affiliates of the foregoing and any other person acting in concert of as a group with any of the foregoing.    additionally, title 3, subtitle 8 of the maryland general corporation law, or mgcl, permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or our bylaws, to implement takeover defenses.  these provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our company or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price.   our charter, our bylaws, the limited partnership agreement of our operating partnership and maryland law also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.   our board of directors can take many actions without stockholder approval.   our board of directors has overall authority to oversee our operations and determine our major corporate policies. this authority includes significant flexibility.  for example, our board of directors can do the following:     · change our investment and financing policies and our policies with respect to certain other activities, including our growth, debt capitalization, distributions, reit status and investment and operating policies;     · within the limits provided in our charter, prevent the ownership, transfer and/or accumulation of shares in order to protect our status as a reit or for any other reason deemed to be in the best interests of us and our stockholders;     · issue additional shares without obtaining stockholder approval, which could dilute the ownership of our then-current stockholders;     · classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or reclassified shares, without obtaining stockholder approval;     · employ and compensate affiliates;     13       · direct our resources toward investments that do not ultimately appreciate over time;     · change creditworthiness standards with respect to third-party tenants; and     · determine that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a reit.   any of these actions could increase our operating expenses, impact our ability to make distributions or reduce the value of our assets without giving our stockholders the right to vote.   future offerings of debt and equity may not be available to us or may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   we expect to continue to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of equity and debt securities in the future, which would include classes of preferred stock, common stock and senior or subordinated notes.  our ability to raise additional capital may be adversely impacted by market conditions, and we do not know when market conditions will stabilize or improve.  all debt securities and other borrowings, as well as all classes of preferred stock, will be senior to our common stock in a liquidation of our company.  additional equity offerings could dilute our stockholders’ equity, reduce the market price of shares of our common stock, or be of preferred stock having a distribution preference that may limit our ability to make distributions on our common stock.  continued market dislocations could cause us to seek sources of potentially less attractive capital.  our ability to estimate the amount, timing or nature of additional offerings is limited as these factors will depend upon market conditions and other factors.   the market price of our stock may vary substantially.   the market price of our common stock could be volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects.  among the market conditions that may affect the market price of our common stock are the following:     · our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies;     · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations;     · the extent of investor interest in our company, real estate generally or commercial real estate specifically;     · the reputation of reits generally and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities;     · changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts;     · fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; and     · announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances.   certain officers and directors may have interests that conflict with the interests of stockholders.   certain of our officers and members of our board of directors own op units in our operating partnership.  these individuals may have personal interests that conflict with the interests of our stockholders with respect to business decisions affecting us and our operating partnership, such as interests in the timing and pricing of property sales or refinancings in order to obtain favorable tax treatment.  as a result, the effect of certain transactions on these unit holders may influence our decisions affecting these properties.     14     federal income tax risks   complying with reit requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities.   to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and to maintain our exemption from the 1940 act, we must continually satisfy numerous income, asset and other tests, thus having to forgo investments we might otherwise make and hindering our investment performance.   failure to qualify as a reit could adversely affect our operations and our ability to make distributions.   we will be subject to increased taxation if we fail to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes.  although we believe that we are organized and operate in such a manner so as to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code, no assurance can be given that we will remain so qualified.  qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations.  the complexity of these provisions and applicable treasury regulations is also increased in the context of a reit that holds its assets in partnership form.  the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a reit.  a reit generally is not taxed at the corporate level on income it distributes to its stockholders, as long as it distributes annually at least 100% of its taxable income to its stockholders.  we have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the internal revenue service that we qualify as a reit.   if we fail to qualify as a reit, we will face tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for payment of cash dividends:     · we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates.     · we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes.     · unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be treated as a reit for four taxable years following the year in which we were disqualified.   in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, we will no longer be required to pay dividends (other than any mandatory dividends on any preferred shares we may offer).  as a result of these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit could adversely effect the market price for our common stock.   changes in tax laws may prevent us from maintaining our qualification as a reit.     as we have previously described, we intend to maintain our qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes. however, this intended qualification is based on the tax laws that are currently in effect. we are unable to predict any future changes in the tax laws that would adversely affect our status as a reit. if there is a change in the tax laws that prevent us from qualifying as a reit or that requires reits generally to pay corporate level income taxes, we may not be able to make the same level of distributions to our stockholders.   an investment in our stock has various tax risks that could affect the value of your investment, including the   treatment of distributions in excess of earnings and the inability to apply “passive losses” against distributions.   an investment in our stock has various tax risks. distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits, to the extent that they exceed the adjusted basis of an investor’s stock, will be treated as long-term capital gain (or short-term capital gain if the shares have been held for less than one year). any gain or loss realized upon a taxable disposition of shares by a stockholder who is not a dealer in securities will be treated as a long-term capital gain or loss if the shares have been held for more than one year, and otherwise will be treated as short-term capital gain or loss. distributions that we properly designate as capital gain distributions will be treated as taxable to stockholders as gains (to the extent that they do not exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year) from the sale or disposition of a capital asset held for greater than one year. distributions we make and gain arising from the sale or exchange by a stockholder of shares of our stock will not be treated as passive income, meaning stockholders generally will not be able to apply any “passive losses” against such income or gain.     15     excessive non-real estate asset values may jeopardize our reit status.     in order to qualify as a reit, at least 75% of the value of our assets must consist of investments in real estate, investments in other reits, cash and cash equivalents, and government securities. therefore, the value of any properties we own that are not considered real estate assets for federal income tax purposes must represent in the aggregate less than 25% of our total assets. in addition, under federal income tax law, we may not own securities in any one issuer (other than a reit, a qualified reit subsidiary or a trs) which represent in excess of 10% of the voting securities or 10% of the value of all securities of any one issuer, or which have, in the aggregate, a value in excess of 5% of our total assets, and we may not own securities of one or more trss which have, in the aggregate, a value in excess of 25% of our total assets.  we may invest in securities of another reit, and our investment may represent in excess of 10% of the voting securities or 10% of the value of the securities of the other reit. if the other reit were to lose its reit status during a taxable year in which our investment represented in excess of 10% of the voting securities or 10% of the value of the securities of the other reit as of the close of a calendar quarter, we may lose our reit status.   compliance with the asset tests is determined at the end of each calendar quarter. subject to certain mitigation provisions, if we fail to meet any such test at the end of any calendar quarter, we will cease to qualify as a reit.   we may have to borrow funds or sell assets to meet our distribution requirements.     subject to some adjustments that are unique to reits, a reit generally must distribute 90% of its taxable income.  for the purpose of determining taxable income, we may be required to accrue interest, rent and other items treated as earned for tax purposes but that we have not yet received. in addition, we may be required not to accrue as expenses for tax purposes some items which actually have been paid, including, for example, payments of principal on our debt, or some of our deductions might be disallowed by the internal revenue service. as a result, we could have taxable income in excess of cash available for distribution. if this occurs, we may have to borrow funds or liquidate some of our assets in order to meet the distribution requirement applicable to a reit.   future distributions may include a significant portion as a return of capital.   our distributions may exceed the amount of our income as a reit. if so, the excess distributions will be treated as a return of capital to the extent of the stockholder’s basis in our stock, and the stockholder’s basis in our stock will be reduced by such amount. to the extent distributions exceed a stockholder’s basis in our stock, the stockholder will recognize capital gain, assuming the stock is held as a capital asset.   our ownership of and relationship with any trs which we recently formed or acquire in the future will be limited, and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our reit status and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax.   a reit may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more trss. a trs may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent reit.  overall, no more than 25% of the value of a reit’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more trss.  a trs will typically pay federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns.  in addition, the trs rules impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a trs and its parent reit that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis.  the trs that we recently formed will pay federal, state and local income tax on its taxable income, and its after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but will not be required to be distributed to us.  there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the 25% limitation discussed above or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above.     16     liquidation of our assets may jeopardize our reit qualification.   to qualify as a reit, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. if we are compelled to liquidate our investments to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a reit, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any gain if we sell assets in transactions that are considered to be “prohibited transactions,” which are explained in the risk factor below.   we may be subject to other tax liabilities even if we qualify as a reit.   even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property.  for example, we will be subject to income tax to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our reit taxable income (including capital gains).  additionally, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which dividends paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years.  moreover, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax.  in general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business.  the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale.  while we will undertake sales of assets if those assets become inconsistent with our long-term strategic or return objectives, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise.  the need to avoid prohibited transactions could cause us to forego or defer sales of properties that might otherwise be in our best interest to sell.   in addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our trs, or through entities that are disregarded for federal income tax purposes as entities separate from our trs, will be subject to federal and possibly state corporate income tax.  to the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for distributions to our stockholders.   dividends payable by reits do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations.   the maximum tax rate for dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates were reduced in recent years to 15% (through 2012). dividends payable by reits, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of reits or dividends paid by reits, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in reits to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-reit corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of reits, including our stock.   our ownership limit contained in our charter may be ineffective to preserve our reit status.   in order for us to qualify as a reit for each taxable year, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year (the “5/50 rule”).  individuals for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts.  in order to preserve our reit qualification, our charter generally prohibits (i) any member of the agree-rosenberg group from directly or indirectly owning more than 24% of the value of our outstanding stock and (ii) any other person from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% of the value of our outstanding common stock and preferred stock, subject to certain exceptions.  because of the way our ownership limit is written, including because of the limit on persons other than a member of the agree-rosenberg group is not less than 9.8%, our charter limitation may be ineffective to ensure that we do not violate the 5/50 rule.      17     complying with reit requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.   the reit provisions of the internal revenue code substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute qualifying income for purposes of income tests that apply to us as a reit.  to the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of the income tests.  as a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a trs. this could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our trs would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. in addition, losses in our trss will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the trss.   item 1b. unresolved