item 1a. risk factors.     the company cautions readers that its business activities involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently expected by the company.  the most significant of those risks are: ●   risk of reduced selling prices and shipments associated with a cyclical industry.  historically, the steel industry has been a cyclical industry. the recovery from the dramatic downturn in the domestic and global economies which began in the fall of 2008 has been slow.  the lingering effects of that recession continued to adversely affect demand for the company’s products in 2010, which resulted in lower prices and shipments for such products than would otherwise have occurred.  such lower prices and shipments improved significantly in 2010 versus 2009, but sales have not yet returned to pre-2009 levels. this continued weakness in market conditions may adversely impact the company’s efforts to negotiate higher prices in 2011 with its contract customers, particularly with respect to electrical steel.  at this time, it is impossible to determine when or if the domestic and/or global economies will return to pre-recession levels.  thus there is a risk of continued adverse impact on demand for the company’s products, the prices for those products, and the company’s sales and shipments of those products as a result of the ongoing weakness in the economy.  in addition, global economic conditions remain fragile and the possibility remains that the domestic or global economies, or certain industry sectors of those economies that are key to the company’s sales, may not recover as quickly as anticipated, or could deteriorate, which likely would result in a corresponding fall in demand for the company’s products and negatively impact the company’s business, financial results and cash flows. ●   risk of changes in the cost of raw materials and energy.  approximately 48% of the company’s shipments are in the spot market, and pricing for these products fluctuates regularly based on prevailing market conditions.  the remainder of the company’s shipments are pursuant to contracts having durations of six months or more.  a portion of those contracts contain fixed prices that do not allow the company to pass through changes in the event of increases or decreases in raw material and energy costs.  approximately 89% of the company’s shipments to contract customers, however, are pursuant to contracts with variable-pricing mechanisms which allow the company to adjust the price or to impose a surcharge based upon changes in certain raw material and energy costs.  those adjustments do not always reflect all of the company’s underlying raw material and energy cost changes.  the scope of the adjustment may be limited by the terms of the negotiated language or by the timing of when the adjustment is effective relative to a cost increase.  in addition, as to the approximately 48% of the company’s shipments which are made to the spot market, market conditions or timing of sales may not allow the company to recover the full amount of an increase in raw material or energy costs.  thus, the price at which the company sells steel will not necessarily change in tandem with changes in its raw material and energy costs.  as a result, a significant increase in raw material or energy costs likely would adversely impact the company’s financial results and cash flows.  the impact of this risk was particularly significant with respect to iron ore costs in 2010.  beyond 2010, it could be significant again with respect to iron ore, as well as certain other raw materials, such as coal and scrap.  for example, to date in 2011, iron ore prices have continued their upward trend, reaching record-high levels in the first quarter.  the impact of significant fluctuations in the price the company pays for its raw materials can be exacerbated by the company’s “last in, first out” (“lifo”) method for valuing inventories when there are significant changes in the cost of raw materials or energy or in the company’s raw material inventory levels as well as the company’s finished and semi-finished inventory levels.  the impact of lifo accounting may be particularly significant with respect to period-to-period comparisons. ●   risk of severe financial hardship or bankruptcy of one or more of the company’s major customers.   many, if not most, of the company’s customers have shared the immense financial and operational challenges faced by the company during the recent severe recession.  while not limited to customers in the automotive industry, the risk is particularly evident in that industry.  for example, in 2009 two major automotive manufacturers filed bankruptcy reorganizations.  while both of those companies have emerged from bankruptcy and are operating, the domestic automotive industry continues to experience significantly reduced light vehicle sales compared to recent historical levels.  this continued weakness could lead to increased financial difficulties or even bankruptcy filings by other suppliers to the automotive industry, many of whom are customers of the company.  the company could be adversely impacted by such financial hardships or bankruptcies.  the nature of that impact most likely would be a loss associated with the potential inability to collect all outstanding accounts receivables.  such an event could negatively impact the company’s financial results and cash flows.     6 table of contents     ●   risk of reduced demand in key product markets.  although significantly reduced from prior years, the automotive and housing markets remain important elements of the company’s business.  though conditions have improved, both markets continue to suffer from the severe economic downturn that started in the fall of 2008.  if demand from one or more of the company’s major automotive customers were to be further reduced significantly as a result of this economic downturn or other causes, it likely would negatively affect the company’s sales, financial results and cash flows.  similarly, if demand for the company’s products sold to the housing market were to be further reduced significantly, it could negatively affect the company’s sales, financial results and cash flows. ●   risk of increased global steel production and imports.  actions by the company’s foreign or domestic competitors to increase production in and/or exports to the united states could result in an increased supply of steel in the united states, which could result in lower prices for and shipments of the company’s products and negatively impact the company’s sales, financial results and cash flows.  in fact, significant planned increases in production capacity in the united states have been announced by competitors of the company and new steelmaking and finishing facilities have begun production.  in addition, foreign competitors, especially those in china, have substantially increased their production capacity in the last few years, while others, such as those in japan, have seemingly targeted the u.s. market for imports of certain higher value products, including electrical steels.  these and other factors have contributed to a high level of imports of foreign steel into the united states in recent years and create a risk of even greater levels of imports, depending upon foreign market and economic conditions, the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies, and other such variables beyond the company’s control.  a significant increase in foreign imports would adversely affect the company’s sales, financial results and cash flows. ●   risks of excess inventory of raw materials.  the company has certain raw material supply contracts, particularly with respect to iron ore, which have terms providing for minimum annual purchases, subject to exceptions for force majeure and other circumstances.  if the company’s need for a particular raw material is reduced for an extended period significantly below what was projected at the time the applicable contract was entered into, or what was projected at the time an annual nomination was made under that contract, the company could be required to purchase quantities of raw materials, particularly iron ore, which exceed its anticipated annual needs.  if that circumstance were to occur, and if the company were not successful in reaching agreement with a particular raw material supplier to reduce the quantity of raw materials it purchases from that supplier, then the company would likely be required to purchase more of a particular raw material in a given year than it needs, negatively impacting its financial results and cash flows. the impact on financial results could be exacerbated by the company’s “last in, first out” (“lifo”) method for valuing inventories, which could be affected by changes in the company’s raw material inventory levels, as well as the company's finished and semi-finished inventory levels.  the impact of lifo accounting may be particularly significant with respect to period-to-period comparisons. ●   risk of production disruption at the company.  under normal business conditions, the company operates its facilities at production levels at or near capacity.  high levels of production are important to the company’s financial results because they enable the company to spread its fixed costs over a greater number of tons.  production disruptions could be caused by the idling of facilities due to reduced demand, such as resulting from the recent economic downturn.  such production disruptions also could be caused by unanticipated plant outages or equipment failures, particularly under circumstances where the company lacks adequate redundant facilities, such as with respect to its hot mill.  production also could be adversely impacted by transportation or raw material or energy supply disruptions, or poor quality of raw materials, particularly scrap, coal, coke, iron ore, alloys and purchased carbon slabs.  this would adversely affect the company’s sales, financial results and cash flows. ●   risks associated with the company’s healthcare obligations.  the company provides healthcare coverage to its active employees and to most of its retirees, as well as to certain members of their families.  the company is self-insured with respect to substantially all of its healthcare coverage.  while the company has substantially mitigated its exposure to rising healthcare costs through cost sharing, healthcare cost caps and the establishment of voluntary employee benefit associations, the cost of providing such healthcare coverage may be greater on a relative basis for the company than for other steel companies against whom the company competes because such competitors either provide a lesser level of benefits, require that their participants pay more for the benefits they receive, or do not provide coverage to as broad a group of participants (e.g., they do not provide retiree healthcare benefits).  in addition, existing or new federal healthcare legislation could adversely affect the company’s financial condition through increased costs in the future.      7 table of contents   ●   risks associated with the company’s pension obligations.  the company’s pension trust is currently underfunded to meet its long-term obligations, primarily as a result of below-expectation investment returns in the early years of the prior decade, as well as the dramatic decline in the financial markets that began in late 2008.  the extent of underfunding is directly affected by changes in interest rates and asset returns in the securities markets.  it also is affected by the rate and age of employee retirements, along with other actuarial experiences compared to projections.  these items affect pension plan assets and the calculation of pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and expenses.  such changes could increase the cost to the company of those obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results and its ability to meet those obligations.  in addition, changes in the law, rules, or governmental regulations with respect to pension funding could also materially and adversely affect the cash flow of the company and its ability to meet its pension and other benefit obligations.  in addition, under the method of accounting used by the company with respect to its pension and other postretirement obligations, the company is required to recognize into its results of operations, as a non-cash “corridor” adjustment, any unrecognized actuarial net gains or losses that exceed 10% of the larger of projected benefit obligations or plan assets.  a corridor adjustment, if required after a re-measurement of the company’s pension obligations, historically has been recorded in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year.  in past years, corridor adjustments have had a significant negative impact on the company’s financial statements in the year in which a charge was recorded (though the immediate recognition of the charge in that year has the beneficial effect of reducing its impact on future years). ●   risk of not reaching new labor agreements on a timely basis.  the labor agreement with the international association of machinists local 1943, which represents approximately 1,725 hourly employees at the company’s middletown works located in middletown, ohio, expires on september 15, 2011.  the company intends to negotiate with the union to reach a new, competitive labor agreement in advance of the current expiration date.  the company cannot predict at this time, however, when a new, competitive labor agreement with the union at the middletown works will be reached or what the impact of such an agreement on the company’s operating costs, operating income and cash flow will be. there is the potential of a work stoppage at this location if the company and the union cannot reach a timely agreement in contract negotiations.  if there were to be a work stoppage, it could have a material impact on the company’s operations, financial results and cash flows. ●   risks associated with major litigation, arbitrations, environmental issues and other contingencies.  the company has described several significant legal and environmental proceedings in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8.  an adverse result in one or more of those proceedings could negatively impact the company’s financial results and cash flows. ●   risks associated with environmental compliance.  due to the nature and extent of environmental issues affecting the company’s operations and obligations, changes in application or scope of environmental regulations applicable to the company could have a significant adverse impact on the company’s operations and financial results and cash flows. ●   risks associated with climate change and greenhouse gas emission limitations. the united states has not ratified the 1997 kyoto protocol treaty (the “kyoto protocol”) and the company does not produce steel in a country that has ratified that treaty. negotiations for a treaty that would succeed the kyoto protocol are ongoing and it is not known yet what the terms of that successor treaty ultimately will be or if the united states will ratify it.  it appears, however, that limitations on greenhouse gas emissions may be imposed in the united states at some point in the future through federally-enacted legislation or regulation.  the united states environmental protection agency already has issued and/or proposed regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions, including regulations which will require reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from large sources and suppliers in the united states.  legislation previously has been introduced in the united states congress aimed at limiting carbon emissions from companies that conduct business that is carbon-intensive.  among other potential material items, such bills could include a proposed system of carbon emission credits issued to certain companies, similar to the european union’s existing “cap and trade” system.  it is impossible at this time, however, to forecast what the final regulations and legislation, if any, will look like and the resulting effects on the company.  depending upon the terms of any such regulations or legislation, however, the company could suffer negative financial impact as a result of increased energy, environmental and other costs in order to comply with the limitations that would be imposed on greenhouse gas emissions.  in addition, depending upon whether similar limitations are imposed globally, the regulations and/or legislation could negatively impact the company’s ability to compete with foreign steel companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations.  unless and until all of the terms of such regulation and legislation are known, however, the company cannot reasonably or reliably estimate their impact on its financial condition, operating performance or ability to compete.     8 table of contents   ●   risks associated with financial, credit, capital and banking markets.  in the ordinary course of business, the company seeks to access competitive financial, credit, capital and/or banking markets.  currently, the company believes it has adequate access to these markets to meet its reasonably anticipated business needs.  the company both provides and receives normal trade financing to and from its customers and suppliers.  to the extent access to competitive financial, credit, capital and/or banking markets by the company, or its customers or suppliers, is impaired, the company’s operations, financial results and cash flows could be adversely impacted. ●   risk of changes in tax laws or rates which would impact the value of the company’s net deferred tax assets.  u.s. internal revenue laws and regulations and similar state laws applicable to the company and the rates at which it is taxed have a significant effect on its financial results.  for instance, the company has recorded net deferred tax assets, including loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards, on its consolidated balance sheets to reflect the economic benefit of tax positions that become deductible in future tax periods.  for more detail concerning the company’s net deferred tax assets, see the discussion in the critical accounting policies, use of estimates section and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8.  tax deductions associated with deferred tax assets are recognized at the tax rate that is expected when they will be taken.  changes in tax laws or rates can materially affect the future deductible amounts related to deferred tax assets.  for example, a reduction in the tax rate would decrease the amount of tax benefit to be realized in the future and result in a charge which has the effect of reducing the company’s income at the time the tax rate change is enacted.  thus a reduction in tax rates, though beneficial in the long-run in the form of lower cash taxes, could have a short-term material adverse effect on the company’s financial results. while the previously listed items represent the most significant risks to the company, the company regularly monitors and reports risks to management and the board of directors by means of a formal total enterprise risk management program. item 1b. unresolved