item 1a.    risk factors our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences, fashion trends and a competitive environment in a timely manner our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify and respond to fashion trends in a timely manner. the specialty retail apparel business fluctuates according to changes in the economy and customer preferences, dictated by fashion and season. these fluctuations especially affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers because merchandise typically must be ordered well in advance of the selling season. while we endeavor to test many merchandise items before ordering large quantities, we are still susceptible to changing fashion trends and fluctuations in customer demands. in addition, the cyclical nature of the retail business requires that we carry a significant amount of inventory, especially during our peak selling seasons. we enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of our private label apparel well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer demand, pricing shifts and the timing and selection of merchandise purchases. the failure to enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise in a timely manner could, among other things, lead to a shortage of inventory and lower sales. changes in fashion trends, if unsuccessfully identified, forecasted or responded to by us, could, among other things, lead to lower sales, excess inventories and higher markdowns, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the effect of economic pressures and other business factors the success of our operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as payroll taxes, employment, consumer debt, interest rates, increases in energy costs and consumer confidence. there can be no assurance that consumer spending will not be further negatively affected by general or local economic conditions, thereby adversely impacting our continued growth and results of operations. our ability to react to raw material cost, labor and energy cost increases increases in our costs, such as raw materials, labor and energy may reduce our overall profitability. specifically, fluctuations in the cost associated with the manufacture of merchandise we purchase from our suppliers has impacted our cost of sales. we have strategies in place to help mitigate these costs and our overall profitability depends on the success of those strategies. additionally, increases in other costs, including labor and energy, could further reduce our profitability if not mitigated. our ability to grow through new store openings and existing store remodels and expansions our continued growth and success will depend in part on our ability to rebalance our store fleet and expand and remodel existing stores on a timely and profitable basis. during fiscal 2013, we plan to open approximately   9 table of contents 50 new american eagle outfitters stores in north america and internationally in mexico and china. additionally, we plan to remodel and refurbish 45 to 55 existing american eagle outfitters stores during fiscal 2013. accomplishing our new and existing store expansion goals will depend upon a number of factors, including the ability to obtain suitable sites for new and expanded stores at acceptable costs, the hiring and training of qualified personnel, particularly at the store management level, the integration of new stores into existing operations and the expansion of our buying and inventory capabilities. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new and remodeled stores profitably. our efforts to expand internationally we are actively pursuing international expansion initiatives, which include wholly-owned stores and joint ventures in select international markets. a failure to properly implement our expansion initiatives, or the adverse impact of legal, regulatory and economic risks in these international markets, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we have franchise agreements with multiple partners to expand our brands internationally. through these franchise agreements, we plan to open a series of american eagle outfitters stores in eastern europe, northern africa and various parts of asia over the next several years. while the franchise arrangements do not involve a capital investment from aeo and require minimal operational involvement, the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally. furthermore, although we provide store operation training, literature and support, to the extent that the franchisee does not operate its stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand and customer experience standards, the value of our brand could be negatively impacted. our ability to achieve planned store financial performance the results achieved by our stores may not be indicative of long-term performance or the potential performance of stores in other locations. the failure of stores to achieve acceptable results could result in additional store asset impairment charges, which could adversely affect our continued growth and results of operations. our international merchandise sourcing strategy substantially all of our merchandise is purchased from foreign suppliers. although we purchase a significant portion of our merchandise through a single foreign buying agent, we do not maintain any exclusive commitments to purchase from any vendor. since we rely on a small number of foreign sources for a significant portion of our purchases, any event causing the disruption of imports, including the insolvency of a significant supplier or a significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on our operations. other events that could also cause a disruption of imports include the imposition of additional trade law provisions or import restrictions, such as increased duties, tariffs, anti-dumping provisions, increased cbp enforcement actions, or political or economic disruptions. we have a vendor code of conduct (the “code”) that provides guidelines for all of our vendors regarding working conditions, employment practices and compliance with local laws. a copy of the code is posted on our website, www.ae.com, and is also included in our vendor manual in english and multiple other languages. we have a factory compliance program to audit for compliance with the code. however, there can be no assurance that our factory compliance program will be fully effective in discovering all violations. publicity regarding violation of our code or other social responsibility standards by any of our vendor factories could adversely affect our sales and financial performance.   10 table of contents we believe that there is a risk of terrorist activity on a global basis. such activity might take the form of a physical act that impedes the flow of imported goods or the insertion of a harmful or injurious agent to an imported shipment. we have instituted policies and procedures designed to reduce the chance or impact of such actions including, but not limited to, factory audits and self-assessments, including audit protocols on all critical security issues; the review of security procedures of our other international trading partners, including forwarders, consolidators, shippers and brokers; and the cancellation of agreements with entities who fail to meet our security requirements. in addition, the united states custom and border protection has recognized us as a validated participant of the customs—trade partnership against terrorism program, a voluntary program in which an importer agrees to work with customs to strengthen overall supply chain security. however, there can be no assurance that terrorist activity can be prevented entirely and we cannot predict the likelihood of any such activities or the extent of their adverse impact on our operations. our reliance on external vendors given the volatility and risk in the current markets, our reliance on external vendors leaves us subject to certain risks should one or more of these external vendors become insolvent. although we monitor the financial stability of our key vendors and plan for contingencies, the financial failure of a key vendor could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. seasonality historically, our operations have been seasonal, with a large portion of total net revenue and operating income occurring in the third and fourth fiscal quarters, reflecting increased demand during the back-to-school and year-end holiday selling seasons, respectively. as a result of this seasonality, any factors negatively affecting us during the third and fourth fiscal quarters of any year, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the entire year. our quarterly results of operations also may fluctuate based upon such factors as the timing of certain holiday seasons, the number and timing of new store openings, the acceptability of seasonal merchandise offerings, the timing and level of markdowns, store closings and remodels, competitive factors, weather and general economic conditions. our reliance on our ability to implement and sustain information technology systems we regularly evaluate our information technology systems and are currently implementing modifications and/or upgrades to the information technology systems that support our business. modifications include replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system information and system disruptions. we believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, staging implementation and in-sourcing certain processes, as well as securing appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying such replacement and redundancy technologies. information technology system disruptions and inaccurate system information, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our ability to safeguard against any security breach with respect to our information technology systems during the course of business, we regularly obtain and transmit confidential customer information through our information technology systems. if our information technology systems are breached, an unauthorized third party may obtain access to confidential customer information. any compromise or breach of our systems that results in unauthorized access to confidential customer information could cause us to incur significant legal and financial liabilities, damage to our reputation and a loss of customer confidence. these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.   11 table of contents our reliance on key personnel our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of our key personnel, including senior management, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified key personnel and skilled employees in the future. our operations could be adversely affected if, for any reason, one or more key executive officers ceased to be active in our management. failure to comply with regulatory requirements as a public company, we are subject to numerous regulatory requirements. our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the sec and the nyse. failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and on the market price of our common stock. our ability to obtain and/or maintain our credit facilities we believe that we have sufficient cash flows from operating activities to meet our operating requirements. in addition, the banks participating in our various credit facilities are currently rated as investment grade. on march 2, 2012, we entered into a five-year, $150.0 million syndicated, unsecured, revolving credit agreement (“credit agreement”). our credit agreement contains financial covenants that require us to maintain certain coverage and leverage ratios. to the extent we do not comply with the required covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, our access to the credit agreement may be limited. although we expect to continue to generate positive cash flow despite the current economy, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully generate positive cash flow in the future. continued negative trends in the credit markets and/or continued financial institution failures could lead to lowered credit availability as well as difficulty in obtaining financing. in the event of limitations on our access to credit facilities, our liquidity, continued growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. other risk factors additionally, other factors could adversely affect our financial performance, including factors such as: our ability to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses; any interruption of our key infrastructure systems, including exceeding capacity in our distribution centers; any disaster or casualty resulting in the interruption of service from our distribution centers or in a large number of our stores; any interruption of our business related to an outbreak of a pandemic disease in a country where we source or market our merchandise; changes in weather patterns; the effects of changes in current exchange rates and interest rates; and international and domestic acts of terror. the impact of any of the previously discussed factors, some of which are beyond our control, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results in these statements and other forward-looking statements we may make from time-to-time. item 1b.    unresolved