item 1a.    risk factors our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences, fashion trends and a competitive environment in a timely manner our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify and respond to fashion trends in a timely manner. the specialty retail apparel business fluctuates according to changes in the economy and customer preferences, dictated by fashion and season. these fluctuations especially affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers because merchandise typically must be ordered well in advance of the selling season. while we endeavor to test many merchandise items before ordering large quantities, we are still susceptible to changing fashion trends and fluctuations in customer demands. in addition, the cyclical nature of the retail business requires that we carry a significant amount of inventory, especially during our peak selling seasons. we enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of our private label apparel well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer demand, pricing shifts and the timing and selection of merchandise purchases. the failure to enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise in a timely manner could, among other things, lead to a shortage of inventory and lower sales. changes in fashion trends, if unsuccessfully identified, forecasted or responded to by us, could, among other things, lead to lower sales, excess inventories and higher markdowns, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the effect of economic pressures and other business factors the success of our operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as payroll taxes, employment, consumer debt, interest rates, increases in energy costs and consumer confidence. there can be no assurance that consumer spending will not be further negatively affected by general, local or international economic conditions, thereby adversely impacting our business and results of operations. our ability to react to raw material cost, labor and energy cost increases increases in our costs, such as raw materials, labor and energy may reduce our overall profitability. specifically, fluctuations in the cost associated with the manufacture of merchandise we purchase from our suppliers impacts our cost of sales. we have strategies in place to help mitigate these costs and our overall profitability depends on the success of those strategies. additionally, increases in other costs, including labor and energy, could further reduce our profitability if not mitigated. our ability to rebalance our store fleet and grow through new store openings and existing store remodels and expansions our growth and success will depend in part on our ability to rebalance our store fleet and expand and remodel existing stores on a timely and profitable basis. during fiscal 2014, we plan to open approximately 25   10 table of contents new american eagle outfitters stores in the factory store format in north america and continue our international expansion in mexico, asia and the united kingdom. additionally, we plan to remodel and refurbish 45 existing american eagle outfitters stores during fiscal 2014. accomplishing our new and existing store rebalancing and expansion goals will depend upon a number of factors, including the ability to obtain suitable sites for new and expanded stores at acceptable costs, the hiring and training of qualified personnel, particularly at the store management level, the integration of new stores into existing operations and the expansion of our buying and inventory capabilities. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our store expansion and rebalancing goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new and remodeled stores profitably. our efforts to expand internationally we are actively pursuing additional international expansion initiatives, which include wholly-owned stores and stores operated by third parties in select international markets. the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally. furthermore, although we provide store operation training, literature and support, to the extent that the franchisee, licensee or other operator does not operate its stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand and customer experience standards, our business results and the value of our brand could be negatively impacted. a failure to properly implement our expansion initiatives, or the adverse impact of political or economic risks in these international markets, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we have limited prior experience operating internationally, where we face established competitors. in many of these locations, the real estate, labor and employment, transportation and logistics and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the locations where we have more experience. consumer demand and behavior, as well as tastes and purchasing trends, may differ substantially, and as a result, sales of our products may not be successful, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we currently anticipate. any differences that we encounter as we expand internationally may divert financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are increasingly exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our revenue, profits, assets, and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we may in the future use instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks; however, these measures may not succeed in offsetting all of the negative impact of foreign currency rate movements on our business and results of operations. as we pursue our international expansion initiatives, we are subject to certain laws, including the foreign corrupt practices act, as well as the laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. violations of these laws could subject us to sanctions or other penalties that could have an adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial condition. our ability to achieve planned store financial performance the results achieved by our stores may not be indicative of long-term performance or the potential performance of stores in other locations. the failure of stores to achieve acceptable results could result in additional store asset impairment charges, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our international merchandise sourcing strategy our merchandise is manufactured by suppliers worldwide. although we purchase a significant portion of our merchandise through a single international buying agent, we do not maintain any exclusive commitments to purchase from any one vendor. because we have a global supply chain, any event causing the disruption of imports, including the insolvency of a significant supplier or a major labor dispute, could have an adverse effect   11 table of contents on our operations. other events that could also cause a disruption of imports include the imposition of additional trade law provisions or import restrictions, such as increased duties, tariffs, anti-dumping provisions, increased united states customs and border protection (cbp) enforcement actions, or political or economic disruptions. we have a vendor code of conduct (the “code”) that provides guidelines for all of our vendors regarding working conditions, employment practices and compliance with local laws. a copy of the code is posted on our website, www.ae.com, and is also included in our vendor manual in english and multiple other languages. we have a factory compliance program to audit for compliance with the code. however, there can be no assurance that all violations can be eliminated in our supply chain. publicity regarding violation of our code or other social responsibility standards by any of our vendor factories could adversely affect our reputation, sales and financial performance. we believe that there is a risk of terrorist activity on a global basis. such activity might take the form of a physical act that impedes the flow of imported goods or the insertion of a harmful or injurious agent to an imported shipment. we have instituted policies and procedures designed to reduce the chance or impact of such actions. examples include, but are not limited to, factory audits and self-assessments, including audit protocols on all critical security issues; the review of security procedures of our other international trading partners, including forwarders, consolidators, shippers and brokers; and the cancellation of agreements with entities who fail to meet our security requirements. in addition, cbp has recognized us as a validated participant of the customs — trade partnership against terrorism program, a voluntary program in which an importer agrees to work with customs to strengthen overall supply chain security. however, there can be no assurance that terrorist activity can be prevented entirely and we cannot predict the likelihood of any such activities or the extent of their adverse impact on our operations. our reliance on external vendors given the volatility and risk in the current markets, our reliance on external vendors leaves us subject to certain risks should one or more of these external vendors become insolvent. although we monitor the financial stability of our key vendors and plan for contingencies, the financial failure of a key vendor could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. seasonality historically, our operations have been seasonal, with a large portion of total net revenue and operating income occurring in the third and fourth fiscal quarters, reflecting increased demand during the back-to-school and year-end holiday selling seasons, respectively. as a result of this seasonality, any factors negatively affecting us during the third and fourth fiscal quarters of any year, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the entire year. our quarterly results of operations also may fluctuate based upon such factors as the timing of certain holiday seasons, the number and timing of new store openings, the acceptability of seasonal merchandise offerings, the timing and level of markdowns, store closings and remodels, competitive factors, weather and general economic conditions. our reliance on our ability to implement and sustain information technology systems we regularly evaluate our information technology systems and are currently implementing modifications and/or upgrades to the information technology systems that support our business. modifications include replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system information and system disruptions. we believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, staging implementation and in-sourcing certain processes, as well as securing appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying such replacement and redundancy technologies. information technology system disruptions and inaccurate system information, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.   12 table of contents our ability to safeguard against security breaches with respect to our information technology systems our business employs systems and websites that allow for the storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding our business, customers and employees including credit card information. security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information and potential liability. we may not be able to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees and engage third party experts and consultants. advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues including intentional or inadvertent breach by employees or persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. any compromise or breach of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. our reliance on key personnel our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified key personnel, including senior management. collective or individual changes in our senior management and other key personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to determine and execute our strategies, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. there is a high level of competition for senior management and other key personnel, and we cannot be assured we will be able to attract, retain and develop a sufficient number of qualified senior managers and other key personnel. failure to comply with regulatory requirements as a public company, we are subject to numerous regulatory requirements, including those imposed by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the sec and the nyse. in addition, we are subject to numerous domestic and foreign laws and regulations affecting our business, including those related to labor, employment, worker health and safety, competition, privacy, consumer protection, import/export and anti-corruption, including the foreign corrupt practices act. although we have put into place policies and procedures aimed at ensuring legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, subcontractors, vendors and suppliers could take actions that violate these requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and on the market price of our common stock. regulatory developments regarding the use of “conflict minerals,” certain minerals originating from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries, could affect the sourcing and availability of raw materials used by suppliers and subject us to costs associated with the regulations, including for the diligence pertaining to the presence of any conflict minerals used in our products, possible changes to products, processes or sources of our inputs, and reporting requirements. our ability to obtain and/or maintain our credit facilities we believe that we have sufficient cash flows from operating activities to meet our operating requirements. in addition, the banks participating in our various credit facilities are currently rated as investment grade. on march 2, 2012, we entered into a five-year, $150.0 million syndicated, unsecured, revolving credit agreement (“credit agreement”). our credit agreement, as amended, contains financial covenants that require us to maintain certain coverage and leverage ratios. to the extent we do not comply with the required covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, our access to the credit agreement may be limited. although we expect to continue to generate positive cash flow despite the current economy, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully generate positive cash flow in the future. continued negative trends in the credit markets and/or continued financial institution failures could lead to lowered credit availability as well as difficulty in obtaining financing. in the event of limitations on our access to credit facilities, our liquidity, continued growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.   13 table of contents other risk factors additionally, other factors could adversely affect our financial performance, including factors such as: our ability to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses; any interruption of our key infrastructure systems, including exceeding capacity in our distribution centers; any disaster or casualty resulting in the interruption of service from our distribution centers or in a large number of our stores; any interruption of our business related to an outbreak of a pandemic disease in a country where we source or market our merchandise; changes in weather patterns; the effects of changes in current exchange rates and interest rates; and international and domestic acts of terror. the impact of any of the previously discussed factors, some of which are beyond our control, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results in these statements and other forward-looking statements we may make from time-to-time. item 1b.    unresolved