item 1a.   risk factors.   investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before purchasing our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock.   risks related to our business   if we fail to develop new software products, enhance existing products and services, or penetrate new vertical markets, we will be unable to implement our growth strategy successfully and our business could be seriously harmed.   the maintenance and extension of our market leadership and our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new software products that achieve market acceptance with acceptable operating margins. enterprises are requiring their application software vendors to provide greater levels of functionality and broader product offerings. we must continue to enhance our current product line and develop and introduce new products and services that keep pace with increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and the technological developments of our competitors. our business and operating results could suffer if we cannot successfully respond to the technological advances of competitors, or if our new products or product enhancements and services do not achieve market acceptance.   we have implemented a product strategy that unifies our software solutions under the aspenone brand with differentiated aspenone vertical solutions targeted at specific process industry segments. we cannot ensure that our product strategy will result in products that will continue to meet market needs and achieve significant market acceptance. if we fail to introduce new products that meet the demands of our customers or our target markets, or if we fail to penetrate new vertical markets in the process industries, our operating results and cash flows from operations will grow at a slower rate than we anticipate and our financial condition could suffer.   our business could suffer if the demand for, or usage of, our aspenone software declines for any reason, including declines due to adverse changes in the process industries.   our aspenone suites account for a significant majority of our revenue and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. if demand for, or usage of, our software declines for any reason, our operating results, cash flows from operations and financial position would suffer. our business could be adversely affected by:   ● any decline in demand for or usage of our aspenone suites; ● the introduction of products and technologies that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, our aspenone suites; ● technological innovations that our aspenone suites do not address; and ● our inability to release enhanced versions of our aspenone suites on a timely basis. ● adverse changes in the process industries that lead to reductions, postponements or cancellations of customer purchases of our products and services.   because of the nature of their products and manufacturing processes and their global operations, companies in the process industries are subject to risk of adverse or even catastrophic environmental, safety and health accidents or incidents and are often subject to changing standards and regulations worldwide.   in addition, in the past, worldwide economic downturns and pricing pressures experienced by energy, chemical, pharmaceutical and other process industries have led to consolidations and reorganizations.   any such adverse environmental, safety or health incident, change in regulatory standards, or economic downturn that affects the process industries, as well as general domestic and foreign economic conditions and other factors that reduce spending by companies in these industries, could harm our operating results in the future.     15 | page table of contents   unfavorable economic and market conditions or a lessening demand in the market for process optimization software could adversely affect our operating results.   our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and difficult or impossible to predict. if the market for process optimization software grows more slowly than we anticipate, demand for our products and services could decline and our operating results could be impaired. further, the state of the global economy may deteriorate in the future. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable global economic and market conditions as well as a lessening demand for process optimization software generally.   customer demand for our products is linked to the strength of the global economy. if weakness in the global economy persists, many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. this could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies, increased price competition or reduced use of our products by our customers. we will lose revenue if demand for our products is reduced because potential customers experience weak or deteriorating economic conditions, catastrophic environmental or other events, and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow from operations would likely be adversely affected.   the majority of our revenue is attributable to operations outside the united states, and our operating results therefore may be materially affected by the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of foreign operations.   as of june 30, 2012, we operated in 30 countries. we sell our products primarily through a direct sales force located throughout the world. in the event that we are unable to adequately staff and maintain our foreign operations, we could face difficulties managing our international operations.   customers outside the united states accounted for the majority of our total revenue in fiscal 2012 and in fiscal 2011. we anticipate that revenue from customers outside the united states will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. our operations outside the united states are subject to additional risks, including:   ● unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, exchange rates, tariffs and other barriers; ● less effective protection of intellectual property; ● requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls; ● difficulties and delays in translating products and product documentation into languages other than english; ● difficulties and delays in negotiating software licenses compliant with accounting revenue recognition requirements in the united states; ● difficulties in collecting trade accounts receivable in other countries; ● adverse tax consequences; and ● the challenges of managing legal disputes in foreign jurisdictions.     fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported revenue and operating results.   in fiscal 2012, 21.6% of our total revenue was denominated in a currency other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, certain of our operating expenses incurred outside the united states are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our reported revenue and operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. foreign currency risk arises primarily from the net difference between non-u.s. dollar receipts from customers outside the united states and non-u.s. dollar operating expenses for subsidiaries in foreign countries. currently, our largest exposures to foreign exchange rates exist primarily with the euro, pound sterling, canadian dollar and japanese yen against the u.s. dollar. since late fiscal 2008, we have not entered into derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency exchange contracts, intended to manage the volatility of these market risks. we cannot predict the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, and foreign currency fluctuations in the future may adversely affect our revenue and operating results. any hedging policies we may implement in the future may not be successful, and the cost of those hedging techniques may have a significant negative impact on our operating results.     16 | page table of contents   competition from software offered by current competitors and new market entrants, as well as from internally developed solutions by our customers, could adversely affect our ability to sell our software products and related services and could result in pressure to price our products in a manner that reduces our margins.   our markets in general are competitive and differ among our principal product areas: engineering, manufacturing, and supply chain management. our engineering software competes with products of businesses such as abb ltd., honeywell international, inc., invensys plc and kbc advanced technologies plc. our manufacturing software competes with products of companies such as abb ltd., honeywell international, inc., invensys plc, osisoft, inc., rockwell automation, inc., siemens ag and yokogawa electric corporation. our supply chain management software competes with products of companies such as jda software group, inc., oracle corporation and sap ag. in addition, we face challenges in selling our solutions to large companies in the process industries that have internally developed their own proprietary software solutions.   many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources than we have. as a result, these companies may be able to offer lower prices, additional products or services, or other incentives that we cannot match or offer. these competitors may be in a stronger position to respond more quickly to new technologies and may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. we believe they also have adopted and may continue to pursue more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to potential customers, employees and strategic partners. for example, some competitors may be able to initiate relationships through sales and installations of hardware and then seek to expand their customer relationships by offering process optimization software at a discount. in addition, many of our competitors have established, and may in the future continue to establish, cooperative relationships with third parties to improve their product offerings and to increase the availability of their products in the marketplace. competitors with greater financial resources may make strategic acquisitions to increase their ability to gain market share or improve the quality or marketability of their products.   competition could seriously impede our ability to sell additional software products and related services on terms favorable to us. businesses may continue to enhance their internally developed solutions, rather than investing in commercial software such as ours. our current and potential commercial competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products obsolete, unmarketable or less competitive. in addition, if these competitors develop products with similar or superior functionality to our products, we may need to decrease the prices for our products in order to remain competitive. if we are unable to maintain our current pricing due to competitive pressures, our margins will be reduced and our operating results will be negatively affected. we cannot ensure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.   defects or errors in our software products could harm our reputation, impair our ability to sell our products and result in significant costs to us.   our software products are complex and may contain undetected defects or errors. we have not suffered significant harm from any defects or errors to date, but we have from time to time found defects in our products and we may discover additional defects in the future. we may not be able to detect and correct defects or errors before releasing products. consequently, we or our customers may discover defects or errors after our products have been implemented. we have in the past issued, and may in the future need to issue, corrective releases of our products to remedy defects or errors. the occurrence of any defects or errors could result in:   ● lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products; ● delays in payment to us by customers; ● product returns; ● injury to our reputation; ● diversion of our resources; ● increased service and warranty expenses or financial concessions; ● increased insurance costs; and ● legal claims, including product liability claims.   defects and errors in our software products could result in claims for substantial damages against us.     17 | page table of contents   we may be subject to significant expenses and damages because of pending liability claims and other claims related to our products and services.   the sale and implementation of certain of our software products and services, particularly in the areas of advanced process control and supply chain management, entail the risk of product liability claims and associated damages. our software products and services are often integrated with our customers' networks and software applications and are used in the design, operation and management of manufacturing and supply chain processes at large facilities, often for mission critical applications.   any errors, defects, performance problems or other failures of our software could result in significant liability to us for damages or for violations of environmental, safety and other laws and regulations. our software products and implementation services could give rise to warranty and other claims. in the ordinary course of business, we are from time to time involved in lawsuits or claims relating to our products or services. these matters include an april 2004 claim by a customer for approximately $5.0 million that certain of our software products and implementation services failed to meet the customer's expectations. we are unable to determine whether resolution of any of these matters will have a material adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations, or, in many cases, reasonably estimate the amount of the loss, if any, that may result from the resolution of these matters.   our agreements with customers generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. it is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions in our agreements may not be effective as a result of federal, foreign, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. a substantial product liability judgment against us could materially and adversely harm our operating results and financial condition. even if our software is not at fault, a product liability claim brought against us could be time-consuming, costly to defend and harmful to our operations and reputation.   if we fail to comply or are deemed to have failed to comply with our ongoing federal trade commission, or ftc, consent decree, our business may suffer.   in december 2004, we entered into a consent decree with the ftc with respect to a civil administrative complaint filed by the ftc in august 2003 alleging that our acquisition of hyprotech ltd. and related subsidiaries of aea technology plc in may 2002 was anticompetitive in violation of section 5 of the federal trade commission act and section 7 of the clayton act. in july 2009, we announced that the ftc closed an investigation relating to the alleged violations of the decree, and issued an order modifying the consent decree, which became final in august 2009. we are subject to ongoing compliance obligations under the ftc consent decree. there is no assurance that the actions required by the ftc's modified order and related settlement with honeywell international, inc. will not require significant attention and resources of management, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. further, if we fail to comply, or are deemed to have failed to comply, with such consent decree, our business may suffer.   third-party claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others may be costly to defend or settle and could damage our business.   we cannot be certain that our software and services do not infringe issued patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties. litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the software industry, and we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time, including claims of alleged infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our licensees concerning their use of our software products and integration technologies and services. third parties may bring claims of infringement against us. because our software is integrated with our customers' networks and business processes, as well as other software applications, third parties may bring claims of infringement against us, as well as our customers and other software suppliers, if the cause of the alleged infringement cannot easily be determined.     18 | page table of contents   claims of alleged infringement may have a material adverse effect on our business and may discourage potential customers from doing business with us on acceptable terms, if at all. defending against claims of infringement may be time-consuming and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, including our management's attention to our business. furthermore, a party making an infringement claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. a judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from selling our software or require that we re-engineer some or all of our products. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter costly royalty or license agreements. we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed significantly if any of these events occurred, and the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. furthermore, former employers of our current and future employees may assert that our employees have improperly disclosed confidential or proprietary information to us. in addition, we have agreed, and may agree in the future, to indemnify certain of our customers against claims that our software infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others. although we carry general liability insurance, our current insurance coverage may not apply to, and likely would not protect us from, liability that may be imposed under any of the types of claims described above.   we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which could make us less competitive and cause us to lose market share.   our software is proprietary. our strategy is to rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and other jurisdictions, and to rely on license and confidentiality agreements and software security measures to further protect our proprietary technology and brand. we have obtained or applied for patent protection with respect to some of our intellectual property, but generally do not rely on patents as a principal means of protecting our intellectual property. we have registered or applied to register some of our trademarks in the united states and in selected other countries. we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees and customers, and historically have restricted third-party access to our software and source code, which we regard as proprietary information. in certain cases, we have provided copies of source code to customers for the purpose of special product customization or have deposited copies of the source code with a third party escrow agent as security for ongoing service and license obligations. in these cases, we rely on non-disclosure and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights.   the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of our technology or independent development by others of technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. our intellectual property rights may expire or be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses on commercially reasonable terms. any misappropriation of our technology or development of competitive technologies could harm our business and could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our proprietary technology, and could subject us to substantial costs in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights, including costs of proceedings we have instituted to enforce our intellectual property rights, such as those described in "item 3. other proceedings," and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. the laws of some countries in which our products are licensed do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. moreover, in some non-u.s. countries, laws affecting intellectual property rights are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope of enforceability of our intellectual property rights.   our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our business plan.   we expect that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. we may need to obtain additional financing thereafter or earlier, however, if our current plans and projections prove to be inaccurate or our expected cash flows prove to be insufficient to fund our operations because of lower-than-expected revenue, unanticipated expenses or other unforeseen difficulties.   our ability to obtain additional financing will depend on a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance, the quality of our receivables, and the availability of capital in the credit markets. these factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of any financing unattractive. if adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may have to forego strategic acquisitions or other investments.     19 | page table of contents   risks related to our common stock   our common stock may experience substantial price and volume fluctuations.   the equity markets have from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the high technology sector, and those fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. in addition, factors such our aspenone licensing model, our financial performance, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, and market conditions in the computer software or hardware industries, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock.   in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. this type of litigation against us could result in substantial liability and costs and divert management's attention and resources.   our corporate documents and provisions of delaware law may prevent a change in control or management that stockholders may consider desirable.   section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, our charter and our by-laws contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company. these provisions include:   ● limitations on the removal of directors; ● a classified board of directors, so that not all members of the board are elected at one time; ● advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; ● the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; ● the ability of the board to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and ● the ability of the board to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval.   these provisions could:   ● have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company or a change in our management that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial; ● discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions; and ● limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.   item 1b.    unresolved