item 1a.  risk factors the following is a summary of certain risks we face in our business. they are not the only risks we face. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly.  all intellectual property acquisition, development, licensing and enforcement activities are conducted solely by certain of our wholly and majority-owned operating subsidiaries. risks related to our business       we have a history of losses and may incur additional losses in the future.   despite reporting net income of $21.1 million and $34.1 million for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on a cumulative basis we have sustained substantial losses since our inception.  as of december 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $65.1 million.  as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately $323.3 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments on hand, and working capital of $294.9 million.  we expect to continue incurring significant legal, marketing and general and administrative expenses in connection with our operations. as a result, we anticipate that we may incur losses in the future.  however, we believe our current cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to finance our anticipated capital and operating requirements for at least the next twelve months.   if we encounter unforeseen difficulties with our business or operations in the future that require us to obtain additional working capital, and we cannot obtain additional working capital on favorable terms, or at all, our business may suffer.   our consolidated cash, cash equivalents and investments on hand totaled $323.3 million and $104.5 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  to date, we have relied primarily upon cash from our operations and from the public and private sale of equity securities to generate the working capital needed to finance our operations.   we may encounter unforeseen difficulties with our business or operations in the future that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. as a result, we may be required to obtain additional working capital in the future through bank credit facilities, public or private debt or equity financings, or otherwise. if we are required to raise additional working capital in the future, such financing may be unavailable to us on favorable terms, if at all, or may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. if we fail to obtain additional working capital as and when needed, such failure could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   failure to effectively manage our growth could place strains on our managerial, operational and financial resources and could adversely affect our business and operating results.   our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. further, as our subsidiary companies' businesses grow, we will be required to continue to manage multiple relationships. any further growth by us or our subsidiary companies, or an increase in the number of our strategic relationships, may place additional strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. although we may not grow as we expect, if we fail to manage our growth effectively or to develop and expand our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems, our business and financial results will be materially harmed.   our future success depends on our ability to expand our organization to match the growth of our subsidiaries.   as our operating subsidiaries grow, the administrative demands upon us and our operating subsidiaries will grow, and our success will depend upon our ability to meet those demands. these demands include increased accounting, management, legal services, staff support, and general office services. we may need to hire additional qualified personnel to meet these demands, the cost and quality of which is dependent in part upon market factors outside of our control. further, we will need to effectively manage the training and growth of our staff to maintain an efficient and effective workforce, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business and operating results. potential acquisitions may present risks, and we may be unable to achieve the financial or other goals intended at the time of any potential acquisition.  our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to acquire patented technologies, patent portfolios, or companies holding such patented technologies and patent portfolios. accordingly, we have engaged in acquisitions to expand our patent 9 portfolios and we intend to continue to explore such acquisitions, including the potential significant acquisition of a third party with respect to which we have begun due diligence efforts. such acquisitions are subject to numerous risks, including the following: • our inability to enter into a definitive agreement with respect to any potential acquisition, or if we are able to enter into such agreement, our inability to consummate the potential acquisition; • difficulty integrating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired entity; • our inability to achieve the anticipated financial and other benefits of the specific acquisition; • our inability to retain key personnel from the acquired company, if necessary; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration process;   • diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns; and • failure of our due diligence process to identify significant issues, including issues with respect to patented technologies and patent portfolios, and other legal and financial contingencies. if we are unable to manage these risks effectively as part of any acquisition, our business could be adversely affected. our revenues are unpredictable, and this may harm our financial condition.   from january 2005 to the present, our operating subsidiaries have executed our business strategy of acquiring patent portfolios and accompanying patent rights.  currently, on a consolidated basis, our operating subsidiaries own or control the rights to over 200 patent portfolios, which include u.s. patents and certain foreign counterparts, covering technologies used in a wide variety of industries.  these acquisitions continue to expand and diversify our revenue generating opportunities. we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, anticipated cash flow from operations, proceeds from our 2012 private placement offering of our common stock (refer to "liquidity and capital resources" below) and other external sources of available credit, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements through at least march 2013 and for the foreseeable future.  however, due to the nature of our licensing business and uncertainties regarding the amount and timing of the receipt of license and other fees from potential infringers, stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the outcome of enforcement actions, rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the growth rates of our existing licensees and certain other factors, our revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which could make our business difficult to manage, adversely affect our business and operating results, cause our quarterly results to fall below market expectations and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   our operating subsidiaries depend upon relationships with others to provide technology-based opportunities that can develop into profitable royalty-bearing licenses, and if they are unable to maintain and generate new relationships, then they may not be able to sustain existing levels of revenue or increase revenue.   neither we nor our operating subsidiaries invent new technologies or products; rather, we depend upon the identification and acquisition of new patents and inventions through our relationships with inventors, universities, research institutions, technology companies and others.  if our operating subsidiaries are unable to maintain those relationships and continue to grow new relationships, then they may not be able to identify new technology-based opportunities for sustainable revenue and growth.   our current or future relationships may not provide the volume or quality of technologies necessary to sustain our business.  in some cases, universities and other technology sources may compete against us as they seek to develop and commercialize technologies.  universities may receive financing for basic research in exchange for the exclusive right to commercialize resulting inventions.  these and other strategies may reduce the number of technology sources and potential clients to whom we can market our services.  if we are unable to maintain current relationships and sources of technology or to secure new relationships and sources of technology, such inability may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   10 the success of our operating subsidiaries depends in part upon their ability to retain the best legal counsel to represent them in patent enforcement litigation.   the success of our licensing business depends upon our operating subsidiaries' ability to retain the best legal counsel to prosecute patent infringement litigation. as our operating subsidiaries' patent enforcement actions increase, it will become more difficult to find the best legal counsel to handle all of our cases because many of the best law firms may have a conflict of interest that prevents their representation of our subsidiaries.   our operating subsidiaries, in certain circumstances, rely on representations, warranties and opinions made by third parties that, if determined to be false or inaccurate, may expose us and our operating subsidiaries to certain material liabilities.   from time to time, our operating subsidiaries may rely upon representations and warranties made by third parties from whom our operating subsidiaries acquired patents or the exclusive rights to license and enforce patents. we also may rely upon the opinions of purported experts.  in certain instances, we may not have the opportunity to independently investigate and verify the facts upon which such representations, warranties, and opinions are made. by relying on these representations, warranties and opinions, our operating subsidiaries may be exposed to liabilities in connection with the licensing and enforcement of certain patents and patent rights which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   in connection with patent enforcement actions conducted by certain of our subsidiaries, a court may rule that we or our subsidiaries have violated certain statutory, regulatory, federal, local or governing rules or standards, which may expose us and our operating subsidiaries to certain material liabilities.   in connection with any of our patent enforcement actions, it is possible that a defendant may request and/or a court may rule that we have violated statutory authority, regulatory authority, federal rules, local court rules, or governing standards relating to the substantive or procedural aspects of such enforcement actions.  in such event, a court may issue monetary sanctions against us or our operating subsidiaries or award attorney's fees and/or expenses to a defendant(s), which could be material, and if we or our operating subsidiaries are required to pay such monetary sanctions, attorneys' fees and/or expenses, such payment could materially harm our operating results and our financial position.   our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks, including the continued failure of future auctions, which may cause us to incur losses or have reduced liquidity.   at december 31, 2011, our investments in marketable securities included certain auction rate securities. our auction rate securities are investment grade quality and were in compliance with our investment policy when purchased.  due to liquidity issues in the global credit and capital markets, these securities experienced several failed auctions since february 2008.  in the case of a failure, the auction rate securities continue to pay interest, at the maximum rate, in accordance with their terms; however, we may not be able to access the par value of the invested funds until a future auction of these investments is successful, the security is called by the issuer or a buyer is found outside of the auction process.   at december 31, 2011, the par value of our auction rate securities collateralized by student loan portfolios totaled $2.4 million. as a result of our analysis of the estimated fair value of our student loan collateralized instruments as described at note 7 to the notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein, we recorded an other-than-temporary loss of $296,000 in our statement of operations for the year ended december 31, 2009.  as a result of partial redemptions at par on certain of these auction rate securities subsequent to june 30, 2008, we recorded net realized gains totaling $15,000, $32,000, and $13,000 for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, reflecting a partial recovery of the other-than-temporary loss originally recorded on these securities.  as of december 31, 2011, the net other-than-temporary loss on auction rate securities collateralized by student loan portfolios totaled $469,000.   the capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption since 2008, and at times, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. in some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers.  although economic conditions appear to be improving, if the current capital and credit markets do not continue to improve or further deteriorate, we may be unable to liquidate a particular issue.  furthermore, if economic conditions do not continue to improve, or if they further deteriorate, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in a future period despite our ability to hold such investments until maturity.  the systemic failure of future auctions for auction rate securities may result in a loss of liquidity, substantial impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses, or a complete loss of the investment in the long-term which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. refer to note 7 to our notes to consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere herein, for information about our investments in auction rate securities. 11 risks related to our industry   our exposure to uncontrollable outside influences, including new legislation, court rulings or actions by the united states patent and trademark office, could adversely affect our licensing and enforcement business and results of operations.   our licensing and enforcement business is subject to numerous risks from outside influences, including the following:   new legislation, regulations or rules related to obtaining patents or enforcing patents could significantly increase our operating costs and decrease our revenue.   our operating subsidiaries acquire patents with enforcement opportunities and are spending a significant amount of resources to enforce those patents. if new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by congress, the u.s. patent and trademark office, or uspto, or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our expenses and revenue. for example, new rules regarding the burden of proof in patent enforcement actions could significantly increase the cost of our enforcement actions, and new standards or limitations on liability for patent infringement could negatively impact our revenue derived from such enforcement actions.   trial judges and juries often find it difficult to understand complex patent enforcement litigation, and as a result, we may need to appeal adverse decisions by lower courts in order to successfully enforce our patents.   it is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level. it is often difficult for juries and trial judges to understand complex, patented technologies, and as a result, there is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. such appeals are expensive and time consuming, resulting in increased costs and delayed revenue. although we diligently pursue enforcement litigation, we cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts.   more patent applications are filed each year resulting in longer delays in getting patents issued by the uspto.   certain of our operating subsidiaries hold and continue to acquire pending patents. we have identified a trend of increasing patent applications each year, which we believe is resulting in longer delays in obtaining approval of pending patent applications. the application delays could cause delays in recognizing revenue from these patents and could cause us to miss opportunities to license patents before other competing technologies are developed or introduced into the market.   federal courts are becoming more crowded, and as a result, patent enforcement litigation is taking longer.   our patent enforcement actions are almost exclusively prosecuted in federal court. federal trial courts that hear our patent enforcement actions also hear criminal cases. criminal cases always take priority over our actions. as a result, it is difficult to predict the length of time it will take to complete an enforcement action. moreover, we believe there is a trend in increasing numbers of civil lawsuits and criminal proceedings before federal judges, and as a result, we believe that the risk of delays in our patent enforcement actions will have a greater effect on our business in the future unless this trend changes.   any reductions in the funding of the uspto could have an adverse impact on the cost of processing pending patent applications and the value of those pending patent applications.   the assets of our operating subsidiaries consist of patent portfolios, including pending patent applications before the uspto. the value of our patent portfolios is dependent upon the issuance of patents in a timely manner, and any reductions in the funding of the uspto could negatively impact the value of our assets. further, reductions in funding from congress could result in higher patent application filing and maintenance fees charged by the uspto, causing an unexpected increase in our expenses.   competition is intense in the industries in which our subsidiaries do business and as a result, we may not be able to grow or maintain our market share for our technologies and patents.   we expect to encounter competition in the area of patent acquisition and enforcement as the number of companies entering this market is increasing. this includes competitors seeking to acquire the same or similar patents and technologies that we may seek to acquire. entities including allied security trust, altitude capital partners, coller ip, intellectual ventures, millennium partners, open innovation network, rpx corporation and rembrandt ip management compete in acquiring rights 12 to patents, and we expect more entities to enter the market. as new technological advances occur, many of our patented technologies may become obsolete before they are completely monetized. if we are unable to replace obsolete technologies with more technologically advanced patented technologies, then this obsolescence could have a negative effect on our ability to generate future revenues.   our licensing business also competes with venture capital firms and various industry leaders for technology licensing opportunities.  many of these competitors may have more financial and human resources than we do.  as we become more successful, we may find more companies entering the market for similar technology opportunities, which may reduce our market share in one or more technology industries that we currently rely upon to generate future revenue.   our patented technologies face uncertain market value.   our operating subsidiaries have acquired patents and technologies that are in the early stages of adoption in the commercial and consumer markets. demand for some of these technologies is untested and is subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which our licensees will adopt our patents and technologies in their products and services.   as patent enforcement litigation becomes more prevalent, it may become more difficult for us to voluntarily license our patents.   we believe that the more prevalent patent enforcement actions become, the more difficult it will be for us to voluntarily license our patents. as a result, we may need to increase the number of our patent enforcement actions to cause infringing companies to license the patent or pay damages for lost royalties. this may increase the risks associated with an investment in our company.   the markets served by our operating subsidiaries are subject to rapid technological change, and if our operating subsidiaries are unable to develop and acquire new technologies and patents, our ability to generate revenues could be substantially impaired.   the markets served by our operating subsidiaries and their licensees frequently undergo transitions in which products rapidly incorporate new features and performance standards on an industry-wide basis. products for communications applications and high-speed computing applications, as well as other applications covered by our operating subsidiaries' intellectual property, are based on continually evolving industry standards. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards. this will require our continued efforts and success in acquiring new patent portfolios with licensing and enforcement opportunities. while we expect for the foreseeable future to have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to maintain the level of acquisitions necessary to keep pace with these technological advances, various factors may require us to have greater liquidity and capital resources than we currently expect. if we are unable to acquire new patented technologies and patent portfolios, or to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards, our ability to generate revenues could be substantially impaired and our business and financial condition could be materially harmed.   uncertainty in global economic conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.   our revenue-generating opportunities depend on the use of our patented technologies by existing and prospective licensees, the overall demand for the products and services of our licensees, and on the overall economic and financial health of our licensees. although economic conditions appear to be improving, recent uncertainties in global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening of the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in the credit, equity and fixed income markets. if economic conditions do not continue to improve, or if they further deteriorate, many of our licensees' customers, which may rely on credit financing, may delay or reduce their purchases of our licensees' products and services.  in addition, the use or adoption of our patented technologies is often based on current and forecasted demand for our licensees' products and services in the marketplace and may require companies to make significant initial commitments of capital and other resources.  if negative conditions in the global credit markets delay or prevent our licensees' and their customers' access to credit, overall consumer spending on the products and services of our licensees may decrease and the adoption or use of our patented technologies may slow, respectively.  further, if the markets in which our licensees' participate do not continue to improve, or deteriorate further, this could negatively impact our licensees' long-term sales and revenue generation, margins and operating expenses, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   in addition, we have significant patent-related intangible assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. we will 13 continue to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our patent-related intangible assets on an ongoing basis, and we may incur substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our consolidated financial results. there can be no assurance that the outcome of such reviews in the future will not result in substantial impairment charges. impairment assessment inherently involves judgment as to assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions as to prices, costs, holding periods or other factors that may result in changes in our estimates of future cash flows. although we believe the assumptions we used in testing for impairment are reasonable, significant changes in any one of our assumptions could produce a significantly different result.   risks related to our common stock   the availability of shares for sale in the future could reduce the market price of our common stock.   in the future, we may issue securities to raise cash for operations and acquisitions. we may also pay for interests in additional subsidiary companies by using shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. we may also issue securities convertible into our common stock. any of these events may dilute stockholders' ownership interests in our company and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.   in addition, sales of a substantial amount of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. this could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our securities.   delaware law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover of our company that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares.   provisions of delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make the acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, and the removal of incumbent officers and directors, more difficult. these provisions include:   • section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prohibits a merger with a 15%-or-greater stockholder, such as a party that has completed a successful tender offer, until three years after that party became a 15%-or-greater stockholder;   • amendment of our bylaws by the stockholders requires a two-thirds approval of the outstanding shares;   • the authorization in our certificate of incorporation of undesignated preferred stock, which could be issued without stockholder approval in a manner designed to prevent or discourage a takeover;    • provisions in our bylaws eliminating stockholders' rights to call a special meeting of stockholders, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to wage a proxy contest for control of our board of directors or to vote to repeal any of the anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and    • the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms for each class, which could make it more difficult for an outsider to gain control of our board of directors.   together, these provisions may make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that could otherwise involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock.    as a result of the redemption of acacia research-combimatrix common stock for the common stock of combimatrix, we may be subject to certain tax liability under the internal revenue code.     our distribution of the common stock of combimatrix corporation, or combimatrix, upon completion of the transaction whereby we split-off combimatrix, a former component of our life science business, to become an independent publicly-held company, or the split-off transaction, will be tax-free to us if the distribution qualifies under sections 368 and 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code.  if the split-off transaction fails to qualify under section 355 of the code, corporate tax would be payable by the consolidated group as of the date of the split-off transaction, of which we are the common parent, based upon the difference between the aggregate fair market value of the assets of combimatrix's business and the adjusted tax bases of such business to us prior to the redemption. 14   we received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service, or the irs, to the effect that, among other things, the redemption would be tax free to us and the holders of acacia research-acacia technologies common stock and acacia research-combimatrix common stock under sections 368 and 355 of the code. the private letter ruling, while generally binding upon the irs, was based upon factual representations and assumptions and commitments on our behalf with respect to future operations made in the ruling request. the irs could modify or revoke the private letter ruling retroactively if the factual representations and assumptions in the request were materially incomplete or untrue, the facts upon which the private letter ruling was based were materially different from the facts at the time of the redemption, or if we do not comply with certain commitments made.   if the split-off transaction fails to qualify under section 355 of the code, corporate tax, if any, would be payable by the consolidated group of which we are the common parent, as described above.  as such, the corporate level tax would be payable by us. combimatrix has agreed however, to indemnify us for this and certain other tax liabilities if they result from actions taken by combimatrix.  notwithstanding combimatrix's agreement to indemnify us, under the code's consolidated return regulations, each member of our consolidated group, including our company, will be severally liable for these tax liabilities. further, we may be liable for additional taxes if we take certain actions within two years following the redemption, as more fully discussed in the immediately following risk factor.  if we are found liable to the irs for these liabilities, the resulting obligation could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, and we may be unable to recover on the indemnity from combimatrix.   following the redemption of acacia research-combimatrix common stock for the common stock of combimatrix, we may be subject to certain tax liabilities under the internal revenue code for actions taken by us or combimatrix following the redemption.     even if the distribution of the common stock of combimatrix upon completion of the split-off transaction qualifies under section 368 and 355 of the code, such distribution will be taxable to us if section 355(e) of the code applies to the distribution. section 355(e) will apply to the distribution if 50% or more of our common stock or of combimatrix's common stock, by vote or value, is acquired by one or more persons, other than the holders of acacia research-combimatrix common stock who received the common stock of combimatrix in the redemption, acting pursuant to a plan or a series of related transactions that includes the redemption. any shares of our common stock, of the acacia research-combimatrix common stock or of the common stock of combimatrix acquired directly or indirectly within two years before or after the redemption generally are presumed to be part of such a plan unless we can rebut that presumption. to prevent applicability of section 355(e) or to otherwise prevent the distribution from failing to qualify under section 355 of the code, combimatrix has agreed that, until two years after the redemption, it will not take any of the following actions unless, prior to taking such action, it has obtained, and provided to us, a written opinion of tax counsel or a ruling from the irs to the effect that such action will not cause the redemption to be taxable to us, which we refer to in this report collectively as disqualifying actions:   • merge or consolidate with another corporation;     • liquidate or partially liquidate;     • sell or transfer all or substantially all of its assets;     • redeem or repurchase its stock (except in certain limited circumstances); or     • take any other action which could reasonably be expected to cause section 355(e) to apply to the distribution.   further, if we take any disqualifying action, we may be subject to additional tax liability.  many of our competitors are not subject to similar restrictions and may issue their stock to complete acquisitions, expand their product offerings and speed the development of new technology.  therefore, these competitors may have a competitive advantage over us.  substantial uncertainty exists on the scope of section 355(e), and we may have undertaken, may contemplate undertaking or may otherwise undertake in the future transactions which may cause section 355(e) to apply to the redemption notwithstanding our desire or intent to avoid application of section 355(e). accordingly, we cannot provide you any assurance that we will not be liable for taxes if section 355(e) applies to the redemption.   we may fail to meet market expectations because of fluctuations in quarterly operating results, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline.   our reported revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly 15 from quarter to quarter in the future. it is possible that in future periods, revenues could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. the following are among the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period:   • the dollar amount of agreements executed in each period, which is primarily driven by the nature and characteristics of the technology being licensed and the magnitude of infringement associated with a specific licensee;     • the specific terms and conditions of agreements executed in each period and the periods of infringement contemplated by the respective payments;     • fluctuations in the total number of agreements executed;     • fluctuations in the sales results or other royalty-per-unit activities of our licensees that impact the calculation of license fees due;     • the timing of the receipt of periodic license fee payments and/or reports from licensees;     • fluctuations in the net number of active licensees period to period;     • costs related to acquisitions, alliances, licenses and other efforts to expand our operations;   • the timing of payments under the terms of any customer or license agreements into which our operating subsidiaries may enter; and     • expenses related to, and the timing and results of, patent filings and other enforcement proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, as more fully described in this section.      technology company stock prices are especially volatile, and this volatility may depress the price of our common stock.   the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies have been highly volatile. we believe that various factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including, among others, the following:   • announcements of developments in our patent enforcement actions;     • developments or disputes concerning our patents;     • our or our competitors' technological innovations;   • developments in relationships with licensees;     • variations in our quarterly operating results;   •  our failure to meet or exceed securities analysts' expectations of our financial results;    • a change in financial estimates or securities analysts' recommendations;     • changes in management's or securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance;     • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • the current sovereign debt crises affecting several countries in the european union and concerns about sovereign debt of the united states;      • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new technologies, or patents; and   16 • failure to complete significant transactions.       for example, the nasdaq-100 technology sector index (ndxt) had a range of $1,118.52 - $1,529.80 during the 52-weeks ended december 31, 2011 and the nasdaq composite index (ixic) had a range of $2,298.89 - $2,887.75 over the same period.  over the same period, our common stock fluctuated within a range of $22.12 - $47.24.   the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the uncertainty in global economic conditions, which began in late 2007 and has continued throughout 2011, have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in the credit, equity and fixed income markets. as noted above, our stock price, like many others, has fluctuated significantly in recent periods and if investors have concerns that our business, operating results and financial condition will be negatively impacted by global economic conditions, our stock price could continue to fluctuate significantly in future periods.   in addition, we believe that fluctuations in our stock price during applicable periods can also be impacted by court rulings and/or other developments in our patent licensing and enforcement actions. court rulings in patent enforcement actions are often difficult to understand, even when favorable or neutral to the value of our patents and our overall business, and we believe that investors in the market may overreact, causing fluctuations in our stock prices that may not accurately reflect the impact of court rulings on our business operations and assets.   in the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the objects of securities class action litigation. if our common stock was the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially harm our business and financial results.   any future material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence in our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business. as described in item 9a, we identified a material weakness as a result of the use of certain net operating loss carry forwards related to the 2000 tax year reflected in our 2001 tax return (prepared by external advisors) relied on by us in connection with the preparation of the third quarter 2011 tax provision, that based on new information, were subsequently determined to be currently unsupportable. since the date we identified this material weakness, we have taken steps to engage a third party tax consulting firm to assist us on a quarterly basis with the preparation and review of our interim and year-end tax provision calculations. while we had procedures and processes to apply accounting standards to complex intra period tax provision calculations, we did not have adequate resources to provide for a detailed analysis, documentation and review of the 2000 and 2001 historical tax returns giving rise to the currently unsupportable tax attributes. the material weakness led to a misstatement of noncash tax expense included in the tax provisions for the three and nine months ended september 30, 2011. the resulting offsetting adjustment was credited to additional paid-in capital, not taxes payable, and accordingly, does not reflect cash taxes payable. no financial statements prior to the financial statements for the quarterly period ended september 30, 2011 were affected by the issue described above. the effect on disclosures prior to the quarterly period ended september 30, 2011 was not material. given this material weakness, management determined that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. the existence of one or more material weakness or significant deficiency could result in future errors in our consolidated financial statements. substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify any internal control deficiencies. if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. if we cannot produce reliable financial reports, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our stock could decline significantly. in addition, our ability to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, or obtain additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. moreover, our reputation with customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others may be adversely affected. we do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock.   we have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. if we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable to you because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. 17 item 1b. unresolved