item 1a. risk factors we have experienced losses in the past, and may experience losses in the future. we have incurred substantial operating and net losses in the past, including 2012, and we expect to continue to incur losses in 2013. if economic conditions worsen or there is an abrupt change in our customers’ businesses or markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. our results of operations can vary significantly due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and our end markets. the semiconductor industry and our end markets have been cyclical, seasonal and subject to significant downturns.  further, the industry can have limited visibility into customers’ forecasts and inventory levels. in past years, the industry has experienced periods marked by market weaknesses that created lower order demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels, and accelerated declines in average selling prices for our products.  these factors negatively affected our financial condition and results of operations during these periods and may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. our results of operations also may be subject to significant quarterly and annual fluctuations.  these fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others: (i) changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured with our products and sold by our customers; (ii) the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products; (iii) industry production capacity levels and fluctuations in industry manufacturing yields; (iv) levels of inventory in our end markets; (v) availability and cost of products from our suppliers; (vi) the gain or loss of significant customers; (vii) our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis; (viii) new product and technology introductions by competitors; (ix) changes in the mix of products produced and sold; (x) market acceptance of our products and our customers; and (xi) intellectual property disputes.     12 table of contents as a result, we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results.  investors should not rely on our results of operations for any previous period as an indicator of what results may be for any future period.  failure of our operating results to meet the expectations of analysts or investors could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. we depend on a few large customers for a significant portion of our revenue; a loss of a significant customer or a decrease in purchases and/or changes in purchasing or payment patterns by one of these customers could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our ability to forecast revenues. we receive a significant portion of our revenues from a few significant customers and their subcontractors.  our financial condition and results of operations have been materially and adversely affected in the past by the failure of anticipated orders to be realized and by deferrals or cancellations of orders as a result of changes in customer requirements. if we were to lose any of our major customers, or if sales to these customers were to decrease materially, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. further, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in demand or for any other reason, the customer’s ability to make timely payments to us for non-returnable products could be impaired. if we fail to sell a high volume of products, our operating results may be adversely affected. we have both increased capacity in and underutilized our manufacturing facility in recent years.  in years in which we had excess capacity, this excess capacity meant we incurred higher fixed costs for our products relative to the revenues we generated.  because large portions of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed, our manufacturing volumes are critical to our operating results.  if we fail to achieve and maintain acceptable manufacturing volumes or experience product shipment delays, our results of operations could be harmed.  during periods of decreased demand, our high fixed manufacturing costs negatively affect our results of operations.  we base our expense levels in part on our expectations of future orders and these expense levels are predominantly fixed.  if we receive fewer customer orders than expected or if our customers delay or cancel orders, we may not be able to reduce our manufacturing costs, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. if we are unable to improve utilization levels and correctly manage capacity, the increased expense levels relative to revenue will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face intense competition, which could result in a decrease in our products’ prices and sales. the markets for our products are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change.  we compete with u.s. and international semiconductor and ic manufacturers of all sizes, some of whom have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do.  we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue.  this competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing market share.  we believe that the principal competitive factors for suppliers in our markets include, among others: (i) time-to-market; (ii) timely new product innovation; (iii) product quality, reliability and performance; (iv) product price; (v) features available in products; (vi) compliance with industry standards; (vii) strategic relationships with leading reference design providers and customers; (viii) access to and protection of intellectual property; (ix) market acceptance; and (x) maintaining access to raw materials, supplies and services at a competitive cost. certain of our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, distributors, reference design providers or other third parties with whom we have or may in the future have relationships.  if our competitors are able to strengthen existing, or establish new, relationships with these third parties they may rapidly acquire market share at our expense, which has occurred to some extent in the past when we were unable to fully meet customer demand due to capacity constraints.  we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors.  increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.     13 table of contents we need to keep pace with rapid product and process development and technological changes as well as product cost reductions to be competitive. the markets for our products are characterized by rapid changes in both product and process technologies based on the continuous demand for product enhancements, higher levels of integration, decreased size and reduced power consumption.  because the continuous evolution of these technologies and frequent introduction of new products and enhancements have generally resulted in short product life cycles for our wireless products, we believe that our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to improve the efficiency of our products and process technologies and rapidly develop new products and process technologies.  the successful development of our products is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including our ability to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, our ability to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, and our ability to protect, develop or otherwise obtain adequate intellectual property for our new products.  if a competing technology emerges that is, or is perceived to be, superior to our existing technology and we are unable to develop and/or implement the new technology successfully or to develop and implement a competitive and economically acceptable alternative technology, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  this implementation may require us to modify the manufacturing process for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and redesign some existing products, which may prove difficult for us and result in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. we will need to make substantial investments to develop these enhancements and technologies, and we cannot assure investors that we will have funds available for these investments or that these enhancements and technologies will be successful. although we have reduced production costs through decreasing raw wafer costs, increasing wafer size and fabrication yields, decreasing die size and achieving higher volumes, we might not be able to do so in the future. to offset these decreases, we must achieve yield improvements and other cost reductions for existing products, and introduce new products that can be manufactured at lower costs. if original equipment manufacturers (oems) and original design manufacturers (odms) of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. moreover, a “design win” from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other products. as a result, we rely on oems and odms of wireless communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. without these “design wins,” we would have difficulty selling our products. if a manufacturer designs another supplier’s product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. also, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer. even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to reduce or cease use of our products, including for example, if its own products are not commercially successful. we may not continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results. lengthy product development and sales cycles associated with many of our products may result in significant expenditures before generating any revenues related to those products. after our product has been developed, tested and manufactured, our customers may need three to six months or longer to integrate, test and evaluate our product and an additional three to six months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates the product. this lengthy cycle time increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. as a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling and administrative expenses, before we generate the related revenues for these products. furthermore, we may never generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer cancels or changes its product plans.     14 table of contents uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of our products could adversely affect our business. our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and not under long-term supply arrangements with our customers. our customers may cancel orders before shipment. additionally, we sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have certain rights to return unsold products. we may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. this difficulty may be compounded when we sell to oems or odms indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. in addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. the cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. in addition, shortened customer order lead times and opportunistic orders may not be filled timely due to a lack of, or inadequate level of uncommitted inventory resulting in lower revenues than possible. in addition, shortened customer order lead times may make it difficult to forecast revenues. we face risks from failures in our manufacturing processes and the processes of our vendors. the fabrication of ics, particularly those made of gaas, is a highly complex and precise process. our ics are primarily manufactured on wafers made of gaas requiring multiple process steps.  it requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment.  minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, downtime on equipment, human error, interruptions in electrical supply or a number of other factors can cause a substantial interruption in our manufacturing processes.  moreover, our manufacturing process is subject to fluctuations in our demand and fab utilization. in an environment of increasing manufacturing output and personnel to satisfy increasing demand, we may incur manufacturing disruptions limiting supply to customers. our customers specify quality, performance and reliability standards that we must meet. if our products do not meet these standards, we may be required to rework or replace the products. our products may contain undetected defects or failures that only become evident after we commence volume shipments, which we may experience from time to time. other defects or failures may also occur in the future. if such failures or defects occur, we could: (i) lose revenues; (ii) incur increased costs such as warranty expense and costs associated with customer support; (iii) experience delays, cancellations or rescheduling of orders for our products; (iv) experience increased product returns or discounts; or (v) damage our reputation which could make it difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers. additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at our production facility or those of our subcontractors.  these disruptions may include electrical power outages, fire, earthquakes, flooding, international conflicts, war, acts of terrorism, or other natural or man-made disasters.  specifically, in the fourth quarter of 2011, one of our subcontractors was impacted by the floods in thailand, resulting in a temporary interruption of supply, and more recently in the fourth quarter of 2012, our new jersey offices and manufacturing facility were impacted by the loss of power, access restrictions and delivery delays caused by hurricane sandy.  disruptions of our manufacturing operations could cause significant delays in our shipments unless and until we are able to shift the manufacturing of such products from an affected facility to another facility or the disruption is remedied.  furthermore, many of our customers require that they qualify a new manufacturing source before they will accept products from such source.  this qualification process may be expensive and time consuming.  in the event of such delays, we cannot assure you that the required alternative capacity would be available on a timely basis or at all.  even if alternative manufacturing capacity or assembly and test capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers.  we may be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet demand, either at our own facilities or through external manufacturing. in the event we are unable to supply our customers with products previously assembled by our subcontractors on a timely basis, such customers may seek alternative suppliers. due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide ic manufacturing process, in the event of a disruption at the warren, new jersey semiconductor wafer fab, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity for certain processes would not be readily available from third-party sources.  any disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also depend on certain vendors for components, equipment and services. we maintain stringent policies regarding qualification of these vendors. however, if these vendors’ processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products, and thereby, our results of operations.     15 table of contents our dependence on foreign semiconductor component suppliers, assembly and test operations contractors could lead to delays in or reductions of product shipments. we do not assemble or test all of our ics or multi-chip modules.  instead, we provide the ic die and, in some cases, packaging and other components to assembly and test vendors located primarily in asia.  our products contain numerous component parts, substrates and silicon-based products, obtained from external suppliers. the use of external suppliers involves a number of risks, including the possibility of material disruptions in the supply of key components and the lack of control over delivery schedules, capacity constraints, manufacturing yields, quality, fabrication costs, warranty issues and protection of intellectual property. further, we are dependent upon a few foreign semiconductor assembly and test subcontractors.  if these vendors’ processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products and, therefore, our results of operations. if we are unable to obtain sufficient high quality and timely component parts, assembly or test service, if we experience delays in transferring or requalifying our production between suppliers, assembly or test locations or if means of transportation to or from these locations are interrupted, we would experience increased costs, delays or reductions in product shipment, and/or reduced product yields, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the short life cycles and nature of semiconductor production, including the potential for order cancellation and need to build product to a customer’s forecast may leave us with obsolete or excess inventories. the life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed.  for example, we estimate that current life cycles for wireless handsets, and in turn our wireless products, are approximately 9 to 12 months.  products with short life cycles require us to manage production and inventory levels closely.  we are subject to increased inventory risks and costs because we build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products. as a result we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales. unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products and/or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed can result in obsolete or excess inventories, requiring a write off or a reduction in the inventory value. such a charge could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. sources for certain components, materials and equipment are limited, which could result in delays or reductions in product shipments. we do not manufacture any of the starting wafers, packaging or passive components used in the production of our gallium arsenide ics. epitaxial wafers, packaging and passive components are available from a limited number of sources. to the extent that we are unable to obtain these materials, packaging or passive components in the required quantities, as has occurred from time to time in the past, we could experience delays or reductions in product shipments, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we depend on a limited number of vendors to supply the equipment used in our manufacturing processes.  when demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment is high, lead times for delivery of such equipment can be substantial.  we cannot assure you that we would not lose potential sales if required manufacturing equipment is unavailable and, as a result, we are unable to maintain or increase our production levels.  a delay for any reason in increasing capacity would limit our ability to increase sales volumes, which could harm our relationships with customers. we may pursue selective investments, acquisitions and alliances; the management and integration of additional operations could be expensive and divert management time and acquisitions may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. on an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. our ability to complete acquisitions or alliances is dependent upon, and may be limited to, the availability of suitable candidates and capital.  in addition, acquisitions and alliances involve risks that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including the management time that may be diverted from operations in order to pursue and complete such transactions and difficulties in integrating and managing the additional operations and personnel of acquired companies.     16 table of contents we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the capital necessary to consummate acquisitions or alliances on satisfactory terms, if at all.  further, any businesses that we acquire will likely have their own capital needs, which may be significant, and which we could be called upon to satisfy independent of the acquisition price.  future acquisitions or alliances could result in the incurrence of debt, costs and contingent liabilities, all of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  any debt could subject us to substantial and burdensome covenants. the growth that may result from future acquisitions or alliances may place significant strains on our resources, systems and management.  if we are unable to effectively manage such growth by implementing systems, expanding our infrastructure and hiring, training and managing employees, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in addition, if we issue equity securities in order to acquire another business, our stockholders’ interest in us, or the combined company, could be materially diluted. further, in periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. when such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. we have implemented cost restructuring programs in the past and may need to again in the future. we implemented cost restructuring programs in the past, including in 2012 and in 2013, and may need to implement such programs again in the future. such restructuring programs are costly to implement and may inadequately address the operating environment. no assurance can be given that the implementation of cost reduction programs will generate the anticipated cost savings and other benefits or that future or additional measures may be required. we could incorrectly anticipate the extent and term of the market decline and weakness for our products and services and we may be forced to restructure further or may incur future operating charges due to poor business conditions. the variability of our manufacturing yields may affect our gross margins. our manufacturing yields vary significantly among products, depending on the complexity of a particular ic’s design and our experience in manufacturing that type of ic.  we have experienced difficulties in achieving planned yields in the past, particularly in pre-production and upon initial commencement of full production volumes, which have adversely affected our gross margins. regardless of the process technology used, the fabrication of ics is a highly complex and precise process.  problems in the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous ics on each wafer to be nonfunctional, thereby reducing yields.  these difficulties can include: (i) defects in masks, which are used to transfer circuit patterns onto our wafers; (ii) impurities in the materials used; (iii) operator errors; (iv) contamination of the manufacturing environment; (v) equipment failure; and (vi) interruptions in electrical supply. many of our manufacturing costs are fixed and average selling prices for our products tend to decline over time.  therefore, it is critical for us to increase the number of shippable ics per wafer and increase the production volume of wafers in order to maintain or improve our results of operations.  yield decreases can result in substantially higher unit costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and have done so in the past.  we cannot assure you that we will not suffer periodic yield problems, particularly during the early production of new products or introduction of new process technologies.  if any new yield problems were to arise or any existing yield problems were to continue, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. unfavorable general economic conditions in individual or world markets could negatively impact our financial performance. unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown in the united states or in one or more of our other major markets, could result in lower demand for some of our products, longer sales cycles or increased price competition.  our customer base includes oems and odms that are reliant on consumer demand. consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending, which could soften demand for our customers’ products and could negatively affect our financial performance. in addition our vendors may be unable to support our production requirements, resulting in delay or non-delivery of inventory shipments.     17 table of contents our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives. among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and components, principally pas and switches, which tend to be more expensive than their silicon counterparts.  the cost differential is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes.  we expect the cost of producing gallium arsenide devices, which exceed the costs of producing their silicon counterparts, to continue for the foreseeable future.  in addition, silicon semiconductor technologies are widely-used process technologies for certain ics and these technologies continue to improve in performance.  therefore, to remain competitive, we must offer gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over their silicon-based counterparts.  if we do not continue to offer products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify their higher cost, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  we cannot assure you that there will continue to be products and markets that require the performance attributes of gallium arsenide solutions. we face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it. in the future, we may decide to access sources of financing to fund growth opportunities.  taking into consideration our combined cash and marketable securities balance of $51.5 million as of december 31, 2012, we believe that our existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditures, working capital requirements, interest and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. however, there is no assurance that the capital required to fund these expenditures will be available in the future.  conditions existing in the u.s. capital markets, as well as the then current condition of the company, will affect our ability to raise capital, as well as the terms of any financing.  we may not be able to raise enough capital to meet our capital needs on a timely basis or at all.  failure to obtain capital when required could have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital.  we cannot assure you that the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions will be available in the future.  the liquidity and valuation of our investments in marketable securities could be affected by disruption in financial markets. we maintain investments in financial instruments including corporate debt obligations, auction rate securities, and government-related obligations, which included $5.7 million carrying value of auction rate securities at december 31, 2012. these investments must be supported by actively trading financial markets in order to be liquid investments. financial markets can temporarily or permanently have an imbalance of buyers and sellers that can impact valuations and liquidity. auction rate markets have experienced imbalances since late 2007 and may continue to be imbalanced. such imbalances could negatively impact the fair value of our investments, requiring a charge against income as has occurred in the past, our access to cash and the liquidity of our marketable securities. we cannot assure you that our marketable securities could be sold for their carrying value or in our required time frame to support our intermediate term cashflow and liquidity needs. our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. a small number of key executive officers manage our business.  their departure could have a material adverse effect on our operations.  we believe that our future success will also depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified manufacturing personnel, technical sales and marketing personnel, design and application engineers, as well as senior management.  we believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the semiconductor industry as the emerging broadband wireless and wireline communications markets develop. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in retaining our key personnel or in attracting and retaining the highly qualified personnel noted above, especially during periods of poor operating performance and/or declines in the price of our common stock.  the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material effect on our ability to operate our business, to implement our business strategy and to respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. we do not presently maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executive officers.     18 table of contents we are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations both domestically and abroad. we are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment.  these environmental laws and regulations include those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in or resulting from our manufacturing processes.  failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to substantial liability or force us to significantly change our manufacturing operations.  in addition, under some of these laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination.  although we are aware of contamination resulting from historical third-party operations at one of our facilities, a prior owner of such facility has been performing, and paying for the costs associated with, remediation of this property pursuant to an agreement with the state environmental regulatory authority.  however, we cannot assure you that such prior owner will continue to do so or that we will not incur any material costs or liabilities associated with compliance with environmental laws in the future. we may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights or in avoiding claims that we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and copyrights.  despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized third parties may violate our patents or copyrights.  in addition to intellectual property that we have patented and copyrighted, we also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities, which we seek to protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with our collaborators and employees.  we cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or independently discovered by others. we seek to operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of third parties.  as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have been notified, and may be notified in the future, that we may be infringing on certain patents and/or other intellectual property rights of other parties.  we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to litigation to defend our products or processes against claims of patent infringement or other intellectual property claims.  any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources.  if we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we cannot assure investors that we would be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially reasonable terms and we may be required to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and cease production of our work product or use of one or more manufacturing processes.  even if we are ultimately successful, patent litigation can be time consuming, disruptive to management and expensive.  if any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we have had significant volatility in our stock price which may continue in the future.  therefore, you may be unable to sell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid for such shares. the trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly.  such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: (i) our operating results and prospects; (ii) the operating results and prospects of our major customers; (iii) announcements by our competitors; (iv) the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; (v) investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; (vi) changes in our earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts covering our stock; (vii) general financial and other market conditions; and (viii) domestic and international economic conditions. public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology sectors of the market.  this volatility significantly affected and may in the future affect the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies.  these broad market fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.     19 table of contents in addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. new regulations related to “conflict minerals” may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex and may result in damage to our reputation with customers. on august 22, 2012, under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, or the dodd-frank act, the sec adopted new requirements for companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as “conflict minerals”, in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. these requirements will require companies to perform due diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries. the implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, including our products. in addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. in such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict mineral free. certain provisions in our governing documents and of delaware law could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us and that could deprive shareholders of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us.  in addition, we have a stockholders’ rights agreement that under certain circumstances would significantly impair the ability of third parties to acquire control of us without prior approval of our board of directors. together, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws, certain provisions of delaware law and our stockholders’ rights agreement may discourage transactions that otherwise could provide for the payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock and could also limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. item 1b. unresolved