item 1a. risk factors set forth below are risk factors relating to our business. you should also refer to the other information provided in this report, including our “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations” and our accompanying consolidated financial statements, as well as the information under the heading “cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements.” risks relating to our industry we operate in a highly competitive environment, and we may not be able to compete successfully in our industry. insurance and reinsurance the insurance and reinsurance industry is highly competitive. we compete with major u.s. and non-u.s. insurers and reinsurers, many of which have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do, as well as other potential providers of capital willing to assume insurance and/or reinsurance risk. we also compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. in addition, continued consolidation within the insurance and reinsurance industry will further enhance the already competitive underwriting environment. these consolidated entities may use their enhanced market power and broader capital base to negotiate price reductions for products and services that compete with ours, and we may experience rate declines and possibly write less business. in our insurance business, we compete with insurers that provide specialty property and casualty lines of insurance, including ace limited, alleghany corporation, allied world assurance company, ltd., american international group, inc., axis capital holdings limited, berkshire hathaway, inc., chubb corporation, cna, endurance specialty holdings ltd., the hartford financial services group, inc., hcc insurance holdings, inc., ironshore inc., liberty mutual insurance, lloyd’s, markel insurance company, rli corp., the travelers companies, w.r. berkley corp., xl group plc and zurich insurance group. in our reinsurance business, we compete with reinsurers that provide property and casualty lines of reinsurance, including ace limited, alleghany corporation, argo international holdings, ltd., axis capital holdings limited, berkshire hathaway, inc., endurance specialty holdings ltd., everest re group ltd., hannover rückversicherung ag, lloyd’s, markel global reinsurance, montpelier re holdings ltd., munich re group, partnerre ltd., platinum underwriters holdings, ltd., renaissancere holdings ltd., swiss reinsurance company, third point reinsurance ltd., validus holdings ltd and xl group plc. we do not believe that we have a significant market share in any of our markets. financial institutions and other capital markets participants also offer alternative products and services similar to our own or alternative products that compete with insurance and reinsurance products, such as insurance/risk-linked securities, catastrophe bonds and derivatives. in recent years, capital market participants have been increasingly active in the reinsurance market and markets for related risks. certain of the new companies entering the insurance and reinsurance markets are pursuing more aggressive investment strategies than do we and other traditional reinsurers, which may result in further downward pressure on premium rates. in this regard, we are co-sponsoring, along with highbridge principal strategies, l.l.c. (a jp morganchase company) (“highbridge”), watford re ltd. (“watford”), a new property and casualty reinsurer for which we will perform underwriting services and highbridge will manage the investments, seeking higher yields and potentially assuming more risk than in our investment portfolio. if the investment and/or insurance underwriting strategy are not successful, we may be exposed to a risk of loss on our investment and in respect of the reinsurance cessions. in addition, we may not be aware of other companies that may be planning to enter the segments of the insurance and reinsurance market in which we operate. our competitive position is based on many factors, including our perceived overall financial strength, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, geographic scope of business, client and broker relationships, premiums charged, contract 49 table of contents terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs), appropriate and timely claim payments, reputation, experience and qualifications of employees and local presence. we may not be successful in competing with others on any of these bases, and the intensity of competition in our industry may erode profitability and result in less favorable policy terms and conditions for insurance and reinsurance companies generally, including us. mortgage insurance the private mortgage insurance industry is highly competitive. the principal sources of our u.s. competition are other private mortgage insurers, the federal housing administration (“fha”) and other alternatives to private mortgage insurance. we compete with other private mortgage insurers on the basis of pricing, terms and conditions, underwriting guidelines, loss mitigation practices, financial strength, reputation, customer relationships, technology, service and other factors. one or more private mortgage insurers may seek increased market share by reducing pricing, or loosening their underwriting guidelines or practices, which could adversely affect our mortgage insurance operations. competition within the private mortgage insurance industry could result in the loss of customers, lower premiums, riskier credit guidelines and other changes that could lower our revenues or increase our expenses. the mortgage insurance industry’s business has been limited as a result of competition with fha, which substantially increased its market share beginning in 2008. factors that could cause fha to maintain or increase its share of the mortgage insurance market include: • a reduction in the premiums charged for government mortgage insurance or a loosening of underwriting guidelines; • imposition of additional loan level fees by the government sponsored entities (“gses”), fannie mae and freddie mac, on loans that require mortgage insurance; • increases in gse guaranty fees and the difference in the spread between fannie mae mortgage-backed securities (“mbs”) and ginnie mae mbs; and • the implementation of new regulations under the dodd-frank act and the basel iii rules. if the fha or other government-sponsored mortgage insurance programs maintain or increase their share of the mortgage insurance market, our mortgage insurance business could be adversely affected. in addition to fha and other federal mortgage insurance programs, lenders and investors may select other alternatives to private mortgage insurance, including: • state-supported mortgage insurance funds in several states; • lenders and other investors holding mortgages in portfolio and self-insuring; • investors using credit enhancements other than mortgage insurance, using other credit enhancements in conjunction with reduced levels of mortgage insurance coverage, or accepting credit risk without credit enhancement; and • lenders originating mortgages using “piggy-back” structures to avoid mortgage insurance, such as a first mortgage with an 80% ltv and a second mortgage with a 10%, 15% or 20% ltv (referred to as 80-10-10, 80-15-5 or 80-20 loans, respectively) rather than a first mortgage with a 90%, 95% or 100% ltv that has mortgage insurance. any alternatives to private mortgage insurance that develop could adversely affect our operations. any failure by us to effectively compete within and outside the mortgage insurance industry could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the insurance and reinsurance industry is highly cyclical, and we expect to continue to experience periods characterized by excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates. historically, insurers and reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions, changes in equity, debt and other investment markets, changes in legislation, case law and prevailing concepts of liability and other 50 table of contents factors. in particular, demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by the underwriting results of primary insurers and prevailing general economic conditions. the supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices and levels of surplus capacity that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return being realized in the insurance and reinsurance industry on both underwriting and investment sides. as a result, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels and changes in terms and conditions. the supply of insurance and reinsurance has increased over the past several years and may increase further, either as a result of capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers. continued increases in the supply of insurance and reinsurance may have consequences for us, including fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention, and less favorable policy terms and conditions. claims for catastrophic events could cause large losses and substantial volatility in our results of operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. as a result, the value of our securities, including our common shares and preferred shares, may fluctuate widely. we have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made catastrophic events. catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, tornados, explosions, severe winter weather, fires, droughts and other natural disasters. catastrophes can also cause losses in non-property business such as workers' compensation or general liability. in addition to the nature of the property business, we believe that economic and geographic trends affecting insured property, including inflation, property value appreciation and geographic concentration tend to generally increase the size of losses from catastrophic events over time. actual losses from future catastrophic events may vary materially from estimates due to the inherent uncertainties in making such determinations resulting from several factors, including the potential inaccuracies and inadequacies in the data provided by clients, brokers and ceding companies, the modeling techniques and the application of such techniques, the contingent nature of business interruption exposures, the effects of any resultant demand surge on claims activity and attendant coverage issues. in addition, over the past several years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions, such as global warming, have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in certain parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. although the loss experience of catastrophe insurers and reinsurers has historically been characterized as low frequency, there is a growing consensus today that climate change increases the frequency and severity of extreme weather events and, in recent years, the frequency of major catastrophes appears to have increased. claims for catastrophic events, or an unusual frequency of smaller losses in a particular period, could expose us to large losses and cause substantial volatility in our results of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to write new business and cause the value of our securities, including our common shares and preferred shares, to fluctuate widely. we could face unanticipated losses from war, terrorism and political instability, and these or other unanticipated losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we have substantial exposure to unexpected, large losses resulting from future man-made catastrophic events, such as acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. these risks are inherently unpredictable. it is difficult to predict the timing of such events with statistical certainty or estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. in certain instances, we specifically insure and reinsure risks resulting from acts of terrorism. even in cases where we attempt to exclude losses from terrorism and certain other similar risks from some coverages written by us, we may not be successful in doing so. moreover, irrespective of the clarity and inclusiveness of policy language, there can be no assurance that a court or arbitration panel will not limit enforceability of policy language or otherwise issue a ruling adverse to us. accordingly, while we believe our reinsurance programs, together with the coverage provided under tripra, are sufficient to reasonably limit our net losses relating to potential future terrorist attacks, we can offer no assurance that our available capital will be adequate to cover losses when they materialize. to the extent that an act of terrorism is certified by the secretary of the treasury, our u.s. insurance operations may be covered under tripra for up to 85% of its losses for 2013 and future years, in each case subject to a mandatory deductible of 20% of our prior year’s direct earned premium for covered property and liability coverages for 2013 through 2014. if an act (or acts) of terrorism result in covered losses exceeding the $100 billion annual limit, insurers with losses exceeding their deductibles will not be responsible for additional losses. in addition, tripra expires on december 31, 2014, and there can be no assurance that congress will extend tripra or will not make significant changes to the law. it is not possible to completely eliminate our exposure to 51 table of contents unforecasted or unpredictable events, and to the extent that losses from such risks occur, or tripra is not extended, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the insurance and reinsurance industry is subject to regulatory and legislative initiatives or proposals from time to time which could adversely affect our business. from time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes have been proposed in the insurance and reinsurance industry. among the proposals that are at present being considered are the possible introduction of global regulatory standards for the amount of capital that insurance groups must maintain across the group. the extreme turmoil in the financial markets has increased the likelihood of changes in the way the financial services industry is regulated. governmental authorities in the u.s. and worldwide have become increasingly interested in potential risks posed by the insurance industry as a whole, and to commercial and financial systems in general. while we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, there may be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in the future. for example, the u.s. federal government has increased its scrutiny of the insurance regulatory framework in recent years, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that will alter and likely increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. moreover, the naic, which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the district of columbia, regularly reexamines existing laws and regulations. there are also a variety of proposals being considered by various state legislatures. solvency ii, the eu regulatory regime which was enacted in november 2009, imposes new solvency and governance requirements across all eu member states. although solvency ii was originally supposed to have become effective by november 1, 2012, a proposed omnibus ii directive was to set revised dates for transposition and implementation of solvency ii by the eu member states. however, there have been a series of delays in the european parliament vote to approve the omnibus ii directive. to avoid legal uncertainty, the eu commission successively enacted two short directives which amend solvency ii with regard to the dates of its transposition and implementation by eu member states. the current proposed date for transposition of solvency ii by eu member states, as set out in the most recent amending directive, is march 31, 2015 with the implementation of solvency ii by january 1, 2016. further delay in the implementation of solvency ii is possible, but the extent and nature of the delay is uncertain. the detail of the solvency ii project will be set out in “delegated acts” and binding technical standards which will be issued by the european commission and will be legally binding. the european commission plans to publish drafts for any of these measures in the spring of 2014. solvency ii imposes significant requirements for our eu-based regulated companies which require substantial documentation and implementation effort. regulators in bermuda and other jurisdictions in which we operate are also considering various proposals for financial and regulatory reform. the bma has implemented and imposed additional requirements on the companies it regulates, such as arch re bermuda, as part of its efforts to achieve equivalence under solvency ii. while the bma regulates arch re bermuda as a long-term and general business insurer under the insurance act in bermuda, the impact of the group rules may have an adverse effect on acgl and our operations. the future impact of such initiatives, if any, on our results of operations or our financial condition cannot be determined at this time. we are unable to predict whether any of these laws and regulations will be adopted, the form in which any such laws and regulations would be adopted, or the effect, if any, these developments would have on our operations and financial condition, including the capital we are required to hold. in light of the delays in implementation of solvency ii, it is unclear when the european commission will take a final decision on whether or not it will recognize the solvency regime in bermuda to be equivalent to that laid down in solvency ii. if the european commission does not recognize the regime in bermuda to be equivalent, this could have an adverse effect on our operations. the u.s. mortgage insurance industry is subject to substantial federal and state regulation, which has increased in recent years. the u.s. mortgage insurance industry is also subject to increased federal and state regulatory scrutiny (including by state insurance regulatory authorities), which could generate new regulations, regulatory actions or investigations. failure to comply with federal and state regulations promulgated by federal consumer protection authorities and state insurance regulatory authorities could lead to enforcement or disciplinary action, including the imposition of penalties and the revocation of our authorization to operate. 52 table of contents underwriting risks and reserving for losses are based on probabilities and related modeling, which are subject to inherent uncertainties. our success is dependent upon our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses that we insure and reinsure. we establish reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses which represent estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections, at a given point in time, of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of losses incurred. we utilize actuarial models as well as available historical insurance industry loss ratio experience and loss development patterns to assist in the establishment of loss reserves. most or all of these factors are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis, and the effects of these and unforeseen factors could negatively impact our ability to accurately assess the risks of the policies that we write. changes in the assumptions used by these models or by management could lead to an increase in our estimate of ultimate losses in the future. in addition, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer and additional lags between the time of reporting and final settlement of claims. unfavorable development in any of these factors could cause the level of reserves to be inadequate. in addition, the estimation of loss reserves is also more difficult during times of adverse economic and market conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties or increased frequency of small claims. changes in the level of inflation also result in an increased level of uncertainty in our estimation of loss reserves. as a result, actual losses and loss adjustment expenses paid will deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. if our loss reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase loss reserves at the time of such determination with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency becomes known. it is possible that claims in respect of events that have occurred could exceed our claim reserves and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, in a particular period, or our financial condition in general. as a compounding factor, although most insurance contracts have policy limits, the nature of property and casualty insurance and reinsurance is such that losses can exceed policy limits for a variety of reasons and could significantly exceed the premiums received on the underlying policies, thereby further adversely affecting our financial condition. as of december 31, 2013, our reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, net of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recoverable, were approximately $7.1 billion. such reserves were established in accordance with applicable insurance laws and gaap. loss reserves are inherently subject to uncertainty. in establishing the reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, we have made various assumptions relating to the pricing of our reinsurance contracts and insurance policies and have also considered available historical industry experience and current industry conditions. any estimates and assumptions made as part of the reserving process could prove to be inaccurate due to several factors, including the fact that relatively limited historical information has been reported to us through december 31, 2013. in accordance with mortgage insurance industry practice, we only establish loss reserves for loans in our existing default inventory. because our mortgage insurance reserving process does not take account of the impact of future losses from loans that are not in default, mortgage insurance loss reserves are not intended to be an estimate of total future losses. our expectation of total future losses under our mortgage insurance policies in force at any period end is not reflected in our financial statements. in addition to establishing loss reserves for loans in default, under gaap, we are required to establish a premium deficiency reserve for our mortgage insurance products if the amount of expected future losses for a particular product and maintenance costs for such product exceeds expected future premiums, existing reserves and the anticipated investment income for such product. we evaluate whether a premium deficiency exists quarterly. there can be no assurance that premium deficiency reserves will not be required in future periods. if this were to occur, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 53 table of contents the failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made catastrophic events. these risks are inherently unpredictable. it is difficult to predict the timing of such events with statistical certainty or estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. it is not possible to completely eliminate our exposure to unforecasted or unpredictable events and, to the extent that losses from such risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. therefore, claims for natural and man-made catastrophic events could expose us to large losses and cause substantial volatility in our results of operations, which could cause the value of our common shares to fluctuate widely. in certain instances, we specifically insure and reinsure risks resulting from terrorism. even in cases where we attempt to exclude losses from terrorism and certain other similar risks from some coverages written by us, we may not be successful in doing so. moreover, irrespective of the clarity and inclusiveness of policy language, there can be no assurance that a court or arbitration panel will limit enforceability of policy language or otherwise issue a ruling adverse to us. we seek to limit our loss exposure by writing a number of our reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to maximum limitations on reinsurance written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client and prudent underwriting of each program written. in the case of proportional treaties, we may seek per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one or series of events. in our insurance operations, we seek to limit our exposure through the purchase of reinsurance. we cannot be certain that any of these loss limitation methods will be effective. we also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification. geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone’s limits. there can be no assurance that various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, will be enforceable in the manner we intend as it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or limitation, or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of these exclusions and limitations. disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may also arise. underwriting is inherently a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. one or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, or the protections set forth in our policies could be voided, which, in either case, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders’ equity. for our natural catastrophe exposed business, we seek to limit the amount of exposure we will assume from any one insured or reinsured and the amount of the exposure to catastrophe losses from a single event in any geographic zone. we monitor our exposure to catastrophic events, including earthquake and wind, and periodically reevaluate the estimated probable maximum pre-tax loss for such exposures. our estimated probable maximum pre-tax loss is determined through the use of modeling techniques, but such estimate does not represent our total potential loss for such exposures. our models employ both proprietary and vendor-based systems and include cross-line correlations for property, marine, offshore energy, aviation, workers compensation and personal accident. we seek to limit the probable maximum pre-tax loss to a specific level for severe catastrophic events. currently, we seek to limit our 1-in-250 year return period net probable maximum loss from a severe catastrophic event in any geographic zone to approximately 25% of total shareholders’ equity. we reserve the right to change this threshold at any time. net probable maximum loss estimates are net of expected reinsurance recoveries, before income tax and before excess reinsurance reinstatement premiums. loss estimates are reflective of the zone indicated and not the entire portfolio. since hurricanes and windstorms can affect more than one zone and make multiple landfalls, our loss estimates include clash estimates from other zones. our loss estimates do not represent our maximum exposures and it is highly likely that our actual incurred losses would vary materially from the modeled estimates. there can be no assurances that we will not suffer pre-tax losses greater than 25% of our total shareholders' equity from one or more catastrophic events due to several factors, including the inherent uncertainties in estimating the frequency and severity of such events and the margin of error in making such determinations resulting from potential inaccuracies and inadequacies in the data provided by clients and brokers, the modeling techniques and the application of such techniques or as a result of a decision to change the percentage of shareholders' equity exposed to a single catastrophic event. catastrophe modeling is a relatively new discipline that utilizes a mix of historical data, scientific theory and mathematical methods. we believe that there is considerable uncertainty in the data and parameter inputs for insurance industry catastrophe models. in that regard, there is no universal standard in the preparation of insured data for use in the models and the running of modeling software. in our view, the accuracy of the models depends heavily on the availability of detailed insured loss data from actual recent large catastrophes. due to the limited number of events, there is 54 table of contents significant potential for substantial differences between the modeled loss estimate and actual company experience for a single large catastrophic event. this potential difference could be even greater for perils with less modeled annual frequency, such as u.s. earthquake, or less modeled annual severity, such as european windstorm. we are also reliant upon third-party estimates of industry insured exposures and there is significant variation possible around the relationship between our loss and that of the industry following a catastrophic event. in addition, actual losses may increase if our reinsurers fail to meet their obligations to us or the reinsurance protections purchased by us are exhausted or are otherwise unavailable. see “risk factors—risk relating to our industry” and “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—natural and man-made catastrophic events.” depending on business opportunities and the mix of business that may comprise our insurance and reinsurance portfolio, we may seek to adjust our self-imposed limitations on probable maximum pre-tax loss for catastrophe exposed business. the risk associated with underwriting treaty reinsurance business could adversely affect us. like other reinsurers, our reinsurance group does not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties. therefore, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. we are subject to the risk that the ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. while reinsurance and retrocessional coverage will be used to limit our exposure to risks, the availability of such arrangements may be limited, and counterparty credit and other risks associated with our reinsurance arrangements may result in losses which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. for the purposes of managing risk, we use reinsurance and also may use retrocessional arrangements. in the normal course of business, our insurance subsidiaries cede a portion of their premiums through pro rata, excess of loss and facultative reinsurance agreements. our reinsurance subsidiaries purchase a limited amount of retrocessional coverage as part of their aggregate risk management program. in addition, our reinsurance subsidiaries participate in "common account" retrocessional arrangements for certain pro rata treaties. such arrangements reduce the effect of individual or aggregate losses to all companies participating on such treaties, including the reinsurers, such as our reinsurance subsidiaries, and the ceding company. the availability and cost of reinsurance and retrocessional protection is subject to market conditions, which are beyond our control. as a result of such market conditions and other factors, we may not be able to successfully mitigate risk through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. further, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance and retrocessions because the ceding of risk to reinsurers and retrocessionaires does not relieve us of our liability to the clients or companies we insure or reinsure. we monitor the financial condition of our reinsurers and attempt to place coverages only with carriers we view as substantial and financially sound. although we have not experienced any material credit losses to date, an inability of our reinsurers or retrocessionnaires to meet their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our losses for a given event or occurrence may increase if our reinsurers or retrocessionaires dispute or fail to meet their obligations to us or the reinsurance or retrocessional protections purchased by us are exhausted or are otherwise unavailable for any reason. our failure to establish adequate reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements or the failure of our existing reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk. in accordance with industry practice, we generally pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. in some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such payment, we may remain liable to the insured or ceding insurer for the deficiency. likewise, in certain jurisdictions, when the insured or ceding company pays the premiums for these contracts to brokers for payment to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and the insured or ceding company will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the broker. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with our brokers. to date, we have not experienced any losses related to this credit risk. unexpected political legislative or judicial developments related to coverage may adverse affect us. the effects of emerging claims and coverage issues are uncertain. the insurance industry is also affected by political, judicial and legal developments which have in the past resulted in new or expanded theories of liability. these or other 55 table of contents changes could impose new financial obligations on us by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or otherwise require us to make unplanned modifications to the products and services that we provide, or cause the delay or cancellation of products and services that we provide. in some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. as a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. the effects of unforeseen developments or substantial government intervention could adversely impact our ability to achieve our goals. the insurance businesses in which we operate may be subject to periodic negative publicity which may negatively impact our financial results. our products and services are ultimately distributed to individual and business customers. from time to time, consumer advocacy groups or the media may focus attention on insurance products and services, thereby subjecting the industry to periodic negative publicity. we also may be negatively impacted if competitors in one or more of our markets engage in practices resulting in increased public attention to our business. these factors may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, requiring us to change our products or services or by increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results. developments in accounting practices, for example a convergence of u.s. gaap with ifrs, may require considerable additional expense to comply with, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparable purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. the impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted, but may affect the results of our operations, including among other things, the calculation of net income. risks relating to our company our success will depend on our ability to maintain and enhance effective operating procedures and internal controls and our erm program. operational risk and losses can result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology failures, failure to appropriately transition new hires or external events. we continue to enhance our operating procedures and internal controls (including information technology initiatives and controls over financial reporting) to effectively support our business and our regulatory and reporting requirements. our management does not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. a control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. as a result of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. these inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons or by collusion of two or more people. the design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. as a result of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatement due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. accordingly, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the disclosure controls and procedures are met. any ineffectiveness in our controls or procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business. the naic has increased its focus on risks within an insurer’s holding company system that may pose enterprise risk to the insurer. the naic recently adopted amendments to its model insurance holding company system regulatory act and regulation, which include, among other amendments, a requirement for the ultimate controlling person to file an enterprise risk report. in 2012, the naic adopted the orsa model act, which requires domestic insurers to maintain a risk management framework and establishes a legal requirement for domestic insurers to conduct an orsa in accordance with the naic’s orsa guidance manual. the orsa model act also provides that, no more than once a year, an insurer’s domiciliary regulator may request that an insurer submit an orsa summary report, or any combination of reports that 56 table of contents together contain the information described in the orsa guidance manual, applicable to the insurer and/or the insurance group of which it is a member. we operate within an erm framework designed to assess and monitor our risks. however, there can be no assurance that we can effectively review and monitor all risks or that all of our employees will operate within the erm framework. there can be no assurance that our erm framework will result in us accurately identifying all risks and accurately limiting our exposures based on our assessments. a downgrade in our ratings or our inability to obtain a rating for our operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may adversely affect our relationships with clients and brokers and negatively impact sales of our products. our operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are rated by ratings agencies. brokers negotiate contracts of insurance between insured and insurer on behalf of the insured and intermediaries negotiate contracts of reinsurance between a primary insurer and reinsurer, on behalf of the primary insurer. third-party rating agencies, such as a.m. best, assess and rate the financial strength of insurers and reinsurers based upon criteria established by the rating agencies, which criteria are subject to change. ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. insureds, insurers, ceding insurers and intermediaries use these ratings as one measure by which to assess the financial strength and quality of insurers and reinsurers. these ratings are often an important factor in the decision by an insured, ceding insurer, broker or intermediary of whether to place business with a particular insurance or reinsurance provider. our financial strength ratings are subject to periodic review as rating agencies evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet their criteria for ratings assigned to us by them. such ratings may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of such ratings agencies in response to a variety of factors, including a minimum capital adequacy ratio, management, earnings, capitalization and risk profile. we can offer no assurances that our ratings will remain at their current levels. a ratings downgrade or the potential for such a downgrade, or failure to obtain a necessary rating, could adversely affect our relationships with agents, brokers, wholesalers, intermediaries, clients and other distributors of our existing products and services, as well as new sales of our products and services. in addition, under certain of the reinsurance agreements assumed by our reinsurance operations, upon the occurrence of a ratings downgrade or other specified triggering event with respect to our reinsurance operations, such as a reduction in surplus by specified amounts during specified periods, our ceding company clients may be provided with certain rights, including, among other things, the right to terminate the subject reinsurance agreement and/or to require that our reinsurance operations post additional collateral. any ratings downgrade or failure to obtain a necessary rating could adversely affect our ability to compete in our markets, could cause our premiums and earnings to decrease and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, a downgrade in ratings of certain of our operating subsidiaries would in certain cases constitute an event of default under our credit facilities. see “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—contractual obligations and commercial commitments—letter of credit and revolving credit facilities” for a discussion of our credit facilities. in light of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that rating agencies may heighten the level of scrutiny they apply when analyzing companies in our industry, may increase the frequency and scope of their reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate (including additional information regarding the valuation of investment securities held), and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in their models for maintenance of certain rating levels. the loss of our key employees or our inability to retain them could negatively impact our business. our success has been, and will continue to be, dependent on our ability to retain the services of our existing key executive officers and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. the pool of talent from which we actively recruit is limited. although, to date, we have not experienced difficulties in attracting and retaining key personnel, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our underwriting staff is critical to our success in the production of business. while we do not consider any of our key executive officers or underwriters to be irreplaceable, the loss of the services of our key executive officers or underwriters or the inability to hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy which could affect our financial performance. 57 table of contents technology breaches or failures, including, but not limited to, those resulting from a malicious cyber attack on us or our business partners and service providers, could disrupt or otherwise negatively impact our business. we rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, store and protect the electronic information, financial data and proprietary models that are critical to our business. furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our employees and our business partners and service providers depends on information technology and electronic information exchange. like all companies, our information technology systems are vulnerable to data breaches, interruptions or failures due to events that may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, theft, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, hackers and general technology failures. additionally, our employees and vendors may use portable computers or mobile devices that can be stolen, lost or damaged. we believe that we have established and implemented appropriate security measures, controls and procedures to safeguard our information technology systems and to prevent unauthorized access to such systems and any data processed and/or stored in such systems, and we periodically employ third parties to evaluate and test the adequacy of such systems, controls and procedures. in addition, we have established a comprehensive business continuity plan which is designed to ensure that we are able to maintain all aspects of our key business processes functioning in the midst of certain disruptive events, including any disruptions to or breaches of our information technology systems. our business continuity plan is routinely tested and evaluated for adequacy. despite these safeguards, disruptions to and breaches of our information technology systems are possible and may negatively impact our business. it is possible that insurance policies we have in place with third parties would not entirely protect us in the event that we experienced a breach, interruption or widespread failure of our information technology systems. furthermore, we have not secured any insurance coverage designed to specifically protect us from the result of such events. although we have experienced no known or threatened cases involving unauthorized access to our information technology systems and data or unauthorized appropriation of such data to date, we have no assurance that such technology breaches will not occur in the future. the preparation of our financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments, which are even more difficult than those made in a mature company since relatively limited historical information has been reported to us through december 31, 2013. the preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities (including reserves), revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities. on an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, insurance and other reserves, reinsurance recoverables, investment valuations, intangible assets, bad debts, income taxes, contingencies and litigation. we base our estimates on historical experience, where possible, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. estimates and judgments for a relatively new insurance and reinsurance company, like our company, are even more difficult to make than those made in a mature company since relatively limited historical information has been reported to us through december 31, 2013. instead, our current loss reserves are primarily based on estimates of exposures on reported claims and estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of claims incurred but not yet reported. we utilize actuarial models as well as historical insurance industry loss development patterns to establish our initial loss reserves. over time, other common reserving methodologies have begun to be employed. actual claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. the price of our common shares may be volatile. there has been significant volatility in the market for equity securities. during 2013 and 2012, the price of our common shares fluctuated from a low of $44.00 to a high of $59.78 and from a low of $35.49 to a high of $45.16, respectively. on february 24, 2014, our common shares closed at a price of $55.23. the price of our common shares may not remain at or exceed current levels. the following factors, in addition to those described in other risk factors above, may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results, including as a result of catastrophes or our investment performance; • our share repurchase program; 58 table of contents • changes in market valuation of companies in the insurance and reinsurance industry; • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; • fluctuations in stock market processes and volumes; • issuances or sales of common shares or other securities in the future; • the addition or departure of key personnel; and • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. stock markets in the u.s. continue to experience volatile price and volume fluctuations. such fluctuations, as well as general political conditions, the current poor economic conditions or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. adverse developments in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and our businesses, and may also limit our access to capital; our policyholders, reinsurers and retrocessionaires may also be affected by such developments, which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. adverse developments in the financial markets, such as disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets, may result in realized and unrealized capital losses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and our businesses, and may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. depending on market conditions, we could incur additional realized and unrealized losses on our investment portfolio in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. current economic conditions could also have a material impact on the frequency and severity of claims and therefore could negatively impact our underwriting returns. in addition, our policyholders, reinsurers and retrocessionaires may be affected by such developments in the financial markets, which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. the volatility in the financial markets could continue to significantly affect our investment returns, reported results and shareholders’ equity. our business is dependent upon insurance and reinsurance brokers and intermediaries, and the loss of important broker relationships could materially adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. we market our insurance and reinsurance products primarily through brokers and intermediaries. we derive a significant portion of our business from a limited number of brokers. during 2013, approximately 16.0% and 17.0% of our gross premiums written were generated from or placed by aon corporation and its subsidiaries and marsh & mclennan companies and its subsidiaries, respectively. no other broker and no one insured or reinsured accounted for more than 10% of gross premiums written for 2013. some of our competitors have higher financial strength ratings, offer a larger variety of products, set lower prices for insurance coverage, offer higher commissions and/or have had longer term relationships with the brokers we use than we have. this may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain brokers to sell our insurance products or brokers may increasingly promote products offered by other companies. the failure or inability of brokers to market our insurance products successfully, or loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by these brokers could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we could be materially adversely affected to the extent that managing general agents, general agents and other producers exceed their underwriting authorities or if our agents, our insureds or other third parties commit fraud or otherwise breach obligations owed to us. for certain business conducted by our insurance group, following our underwriting, financial, claims and information technology due diligence reviews, we authorize managing general agents, general agents and other producers to write business on our behalf within underwriting authorities prescribed by us. in addition, arch mi u.s. delegates the underwriting of a significant percentage of its primary new insurance written to certain mortgage lenders. under this delegated underwriting program, the approved customer may determine whether mortgage loans meet our mortgage insurance program guidelines and commit us to issue mortgage insurance. we rely on the underwriting controls of these agents to write business within the underwriting authorities provided by us. although we monitor such business on an ongoing basis, our monitoring efforts may not be adequate or our agents may exceed their underwriting authorities or otherwise breach obligations owed to us. in addition, our agents, our insureds or other third parties may commit fraud or otherwise breach their obligations to us. to the extent that our agents, our insureds or other third parties exceed their 59 table of contents underwriting authorities, commit fraud or otherwise breach obligations owed to us in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations. in addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance recoverables and reliance on brokers and other agents (each discussed elsewhere in this section), we are exposed to credit risk in other areas of our business related to policyholders. we are exposed to credit risk in our insurance group’s surety unit where we guarantee to a third party that our policyholder will satisfy certain performance or financial obligations. if our policyholder defaults, we may suffer losses and be unable to be reimbursed by our policyholder. we are exposed to credit risk in our insurance group’s construction and national accounts units where we write large deductible insurance policies. under these policies, we are typically obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim (shown as “contractholder payables” on our consolidated balance sheets). we are subsequently reimbursed by the policyholder for the deductible amount (shown as “contractholder receivables” on our consolidated balance sheets), which can be a set amount per claim and/or an aggregate amount for all covered claims. as such, we are exposed to credit risk from the policyholder. additionally, we write retrospectively rated policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). in this instance, we are exposed to credit risk to the extent the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. while we generally seek to mitigate this risk through collateral agreements that require the posting of collateral in such forms as cash and letters of credit from banks, our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our policyholders may not be successful. although we have not experienced any material credit losses to date, an increased inability of our policyholders to meet their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our investment performance may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. a significant portion of our cash and invested assets consists of fixed maturities (72.1% as of december 31, 2013). although our current investment guidelines and approach stress preservation of capital, market liquidity and diversification of risk, our investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations. in addition, we are subject to risks inherent in particular securities or types of securities, as well as sector concentrations. changing market conditions could materially affect the future valuation of securities in our investment portfolio, which could cause us to impair some portion of those securities. we may not be able to realize our investment objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in the event that we are unsuccessful in correlating our investment portfolio with our expected insurance and reinsurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate our investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and ability to conduct our business. we may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including interest rate changes, as well as legislative changes. our operating results are affected by, and we are exposed to, significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, real estate values, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of our investment portfolio and other factors outside our control. in addition, our investment portfolio includes residential mbs. as of december 31, 2013, mbs constituted approximately 8.4% of our cash and invested assets. as with other fixed income investments, the fair value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. changes in interest rates can expose us to changes in the prepayment rate on these investments. in periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mbs are prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current market rates. conversely, in periods of rising rates, mortgage prepayments generally fall, preventing us from taking full advantage of the higher level of rates. however, current economic conditions may curtail prepayment activity as refinancing becomes more difficult, thus limiting prepayments on mbs. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including the fiscal and monetary policies of the u.s. and other major economies, inflation, economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. although we attempt to take measures to manage the risks of investing in changing interest rate environments, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. despite our mitigation efforts, an increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our book value. 60 table of contents the residential mortgage market in the u.s has experienced a variety of difficulties in certain underwriting periods and is only recently recovering from a period of severe home price depreciation. it is uncertain whether this recovery will continue. delinquencies and losses with respect to residential mortgage loans generally increased for such periods and may continue to increase, particularly in the subprime sector. in addition, residential property values in many states have declined or remained stable after extended periods during which those values appreciated. a continued decline or an extended flattening in those values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, especially with respect to second homes and investment properties, and with respect to any residential mortgage loans where the aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate loans) are close to or greater than the related property values. these developments may have a significant adverse effect on the prices of loans and securities, including those in our investment portfolio. the situation continues to have wide ranging consequences, including downward pressure on economic growth and the potential for increased insurance and reinsurance exposures, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, business and operations. our portfolio includes commercial mortgage backed securities (“cmbs”). at december 31, 2013, cmbs constituted approximately 7.6% of our cash and invested assets. the commercial real estate market may experience price deterioration, which could lead to delinquencies and losses on commercial real estate mortgages. mortgage insurance losses result when a borrower becomes unable to continue to make mortgage payments and the home of such borrower cannot be sold for an amount that covers unpaid principal and interest and the expenses of the sale. deteriorating economic conditions increase the likelihood that borrowers will have insufficient income to pay their mortgages and can adversely affect housing values. in addition, natural disasters or other catastrophic events could result in increased claims if such events adversely affected the employment and income of borrowers and the value of homes. any of these events or deteriorating economic conditions could cause our mortgage insurance losses to increase and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. also, in each year, a significant portion of our mortgage insurance premiums will be from mortgage insurance written in prior years. accordingly, the length of time insurance remains in force, referred to as persistency, is a significant driver of mortgage insurance revenues. factors affecting persistency include: • current mortgage interest rates compared to those rates on our insurance in force, which affects the likelihood of the insurance in force to be subject to borrower refinance; • the amount of home equity, as homeowners with more equity in their homes can generally more readily move to a new residence or refinance their existing mortgage; and • mortgage insurance cancellation policies of mortgage investors and the cancellation of borrower-paid mortgage insurance, either upon request of the borrower or as required by law based upon the amortization schedule of the loan. if these or other factors cause the length of time our mortgage insurance policies remain in force to decline, our mortgage insurance revenues could be adversely affected. significant, continued volatility, changes in interest rates, a lack of pricing transparency, market liquidity, declines in equity prices and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows through realized losses, impairments and changes in unrealized positions market developments and government actions regarding the sovereign debt crisis in europe, particularly in portugal, ireland, italy, greece and spain, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. the global recession and disruption of the financial markets has led to concerns over access to capital markets and the solvency of eu member states, including portugal, ireland, italy, greece and spain, and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by, or the economies of, these countries. as of december 31, 2013, our investment portfolio does not contain significant investments in government bonds issued by portugal, ireland, italy, greece and spain and in financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by, or the economies of, those countries (see “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations— financial condition, liquidity and capital resources—financial condition—investable assets”). the continued uncertainty over the outcome of international financial support programs and the possibility that eu member 61 table of contents states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. recent rating agency downgrades on certain european sovereign debt, as well as downgrades on certain european financial institutions, and growing concern of the potential default of government issuers or of a possible withdrawal by one or more eu member states from the eurozone and/or a break-up of the eu has further contributed to this uncertainty. the negative impact of these events on economic conditions and global markets could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. for example, this crisis may cause the value of the european currencies, including the euro, to further depreciate against the u.s. dollar, which in turn could materially adversely impact euro-denominated assets held in our investment portfolio or our european book of business. in addition, the applicable legal framework and the terms of our euro-denominated insurance policies and reinsurance agreements generally do not address withdrawal by a member state from the eurozone or a break-up of the eu, which could create uncertainty in our payment obligations and rights under those policies and agreements in the event that such a withdrawal or break-up does occur. additionally, a contagion effect of a possible default of one or more eu member states and/or their withdrawal from the eurozone, or the failure of financial institutions, on the global economy, including other eu member states and our counterparties located in those countries, or a break-up of the eu could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. certain of our investments are illiquid and are difficult to sell, or to sell in significant amounts at acceptable prices, to generate cash to meet our needs. our investments in certain securities, including certain fixed income and structured securities, investments in funds accounted for using the equity method, other investments and our investment in gulf re (joint venture) may be illiquid due to contractual provisions or investment market conditions. if we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of anticipated cash requirements, then we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or may be forced to sell or terminate them at unfavorable values. the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. on a quarterly basis, we perform reviews of our investments to determine whether declines in fair value below the cost basis are considered other-than-temporary in accordance with applicable accounting guidance regarding the recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments. the process of determining whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired requires judgment and involves analyzing many factors. these factors include (i) an analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and overall financial condition of the issuer, (ii) the time period in which there was a significant decline in value, (iii) the significance of the decline, and (iv) the analysis of specific credit events. we evaluate the unrealized losses of our equity securities by issuer and determine if we can forecast a reasonable period of time by which the fair value of the securities would increase and we would recover our cost. if we are unable to forecast a reasonable period of time in which to recover the cost of our equity securities, we record a net impairment loss in earnings equivalent to the entire unrealized loss. there can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial statements. furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. we may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms. we monitor our capital adequacy on a regular basis. the capital requirements of our business depend on many factors, including regulatory requirements, our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. our ability to underwrite is largely dependent upon the quality of our claims paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent rating agencies. to the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to fund our future operating requirements and/or cover claim losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or limit our growth. any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are unfavorable to us. in the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and, in any case, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our outstanding securities. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. such market conditions may limit our ability to access the capital necessary to develop our business and replace, in a timely manner, our letters of credit facilities upon maturity. as such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. if we are not able to obtain adequate capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely 62 table of contents affected. see “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—financial condition, liquidity and capital resources— liquidity and capital resources.” if we are unable to timely implement our u.s. mortgage insurance strategy, our financial results could be adversely affected. on january 30, 2014, our u.s.-based subsidiaries completed the acquisition of cmg mortgage insurance company (renamed “arch mi u.s.” subject to receipt of applicable state approvals). prior to the acquisition, cmg mortgage insurance company had been a gse-approved mortgage insurance company limited to only credit union customers. our strategy is to broaden arch mi u.s.’s customer base to national and regional mortgage banks and originators, while maintaining and increasing arch mi u.s.’s share of the mortgage insurance credit union market. our success will depend upon, among other factors, our ability to: • develop business relationships with national and regional mortgage banks and originators and obtain their approvals as an authorized mortgage insurance provider; • develop and implement necessary e-commerce connectivity with new customers’ mortgage origination systems; • maintain and expand business relationships with existing credit union customers; • integrate various technology systems of arch mi u.s. into our existing operating and technology systems; and • retain and attract talent at arch mi u.s. necessary to implement our u.s. mortgage insurance strategy. because of these factors, economic conditions and competitive dynamics, the extent to which we will be successful implementing our u.s. mortgage insurance strategy, and the timing of implementation, are uncertain. if we are unable to timely attract new, and retain existing, customers and process business efficiently and reliably, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our acquisition of cmg mortgage insurance company may expose us to unknown liabilities. in the acquisition, we purchased all of the outstanding equity interests of cmg mortgage insurance company and three other mortgage insurers as well as certain information technology and other assets of pmi (the “acquired mortgage operations”). we will generally be subject to all liabilities associated with the acquired mortgage operations, other than certain excluded liabilities as set forth in the purchase agreements. if there are unknown liabilities or other obligations, including contingent liabilities, our business could be materially affected. we may learn additional information about the acquired mortgage operations that adversely affects us, such as unknown liabilities, issues that could affect our ability to comply with the sarbanes-oxley act or issues that could affect our ability to comply with other applicable laws. we may fail to realize the growth prospects and other benefits anticipated from the acquired mortgage operations. the success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from acquiring the acquired mortgage operations. we may never realize these business opportunities and growth prospects. integrating the acquired mortgage operations will require significant efforts and expenditures. our management might have its attention diverted while trying to integrate operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures and the cost of integration may exceed our expectations. we may also be required to make unanticipated capital expenditures or investments in order to maintain, improve or sustain the acquired operations or take write offs or impairment charges and may be subject to unanticipated or unknown liabilities relating to the acquired mortgage operations. we might experience increased competition that limits our ability to expand our business, and we might not be able to capitalize on expected business opportunities. if any of these factors limit our ability to integrate the acquired mortgage operations successfully or on a timely basis, the expectations of future results of operations following the acquisition might not be met. we will incur significant transaction and acquisition-related integration costs in connection with the acquired mortgage operations. we are currently integrating the acquired mortgage operations into our operations. although we anticipate achieving synergies in connection with the acquisition, we also expect to incur costs to implement such cost savings measures. we cannot at this time identify the timing, nature and amount of all such charges. the significant acquisition-related integration costs could materially adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which such charges are recorded or our 63 table of contents cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid. although we believe that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the acquired mortgage operations, will offset incremental transaction and acquisition-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. we have identified some, but not all, of the actions necessary to achieve our anticipated cost and operational savings. accordingly, the cost and operational savings may not be achievable in our anticipated amount or time frame or at all. investors should not place undue reliance on the anticipated benefits of the acquisition in making their investment decision. the ultimate performance of the mortgage insurance portfolio we acquired in connection with our acquisition of the acquired mortgage operations remains uncertain. cmg mortgage insurance company incurred significant losses during the period 2008 to 2012. at the closing of the acquisition, cmg mortgage insurance company had insurance in force of approximately $21.5 billion. the ultimate performance of the portfolio we acquired remains uncertain and subject to factors outside of our control, including, among others, changes in unemployment, home prices and interest rates in the u.s. deteriorating economic conditions in the u.s. would adversely affect the performance of our acquired u.s. mortgage insurance portfolio and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. pursuant to the purchase agreement, we may pay additional consideration to the former owners of cmg mortgage insurance company based on the actual results of cmg mortgage insurance company’s pre-closing portfolio over an agreed upon period. the costs savings we expect to realize from our services agreement with pmi may fail to materialize and the provision of services to pmi could hinder our ability to execute our u.s. mortgage insurance business plan and strategy. we have entered into a multi-year services agreement with pmi (the “services agreement”) pursuant to which we will perform or assist with many of pmi's run-off operations. we will provide run-off services to pmi “at cost” as determined by reference to operational metrics specified in the services agreement. we believe that this arrangement with pmi will allow us to leverage our own operations and reduce certain of our fixed costs associated with our information technology systems and other mortgage insurance operations. the services that we are required to provide pmi cover many aspects of pmi’s run-off operations, including policy reporting and servicing, and financial, actuarial, hr and legal services. if the time and resources necessary to provide the services are greater than anticipated, and we are therefore unable to provide such services with existing personnel, we may not fully achieve the expense reductions anticipated. if the level of services required is less than anticipated or the services agreement is terminated earlier than we expect, we may charge pmi a lower than anticipated portion of our own fixed costs and we may not achieve the expense reductions anticipated. in addition, the performance of its obligations under the services agreement could distract our management from the execution of our u.s. mortgage insurance business plan and strategy. if we fail to perform required services or perform services in a manner that does not meet specified performance standards, pmi may terminate the services agreement and could exercise other remedies against us, including, under certain circumstances, seeking damages and the release to pmi of source code relating to our technology systems. if any of these events were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the information technology systems from the acquired mortgage operations may not perform as expected, may be unable to meet the demands of customers, may become outmoded, or may be temporarily interrupted or fail. in connection with the acquired mortgage operations, we acquired the technology and operating systems of pmi. we will use these systems to service our u.s. mortgage insurance portfolios. accordingly, our u.s. mortgage insurance business is highly dependent on the effective operation of these newly acquired systems. while we believe that the acquired systems are adequate to service our u.s. mortgage insurance portfolios, there can be no assurance that they will operate in all manners in which we intend or exhibit the functionality and performance we expected or possess all of the functionality required by customers currently or in the future. mortgage insurance customers require that we conduct our business in a secure manner, electronically via the internet or via electronic data transmission. we must continually invest significant resources in establishing and maintaining electronic connectivity with customers. in order to integrate electronically with new customers, we require electronic connections between our systems and those of the industry's largest mortgage servicing systems and leading loan origination systems. arch mi u.s. currently possesses connectivity with certain of these external systems, but there is no assurance that such connectivity is sufficient and we are undertaking new electronic integration efforts with third-party loan servicing and origination systems. such efforts could significantly delay entry into certain markets or customers as the 64 table of contents electronic integration process requires time and effort to complete. our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if we do not possess or timely acquire the requisite set of electronic integrations necessary to keep pace with the technological demands of customers. our mortgage insurance systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage. although we have disaster recovery and business continuity plans in place, we may not be able to adequately execute these plans in a timely fashion. because we rely on our technology systems for many critical functions, including connecting with our customers, if such systems were to fail or become outmoded, we may experience a significant disruption in our operations and in the business we receive and process, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. any future acquisitions, growth of our operations through the addition of new lines of insurance or reinsurance business through our existing subsidiaries or through the formation of new subsidiaries, expansion into new geographic regions and/or joint ventures or partnerships may expose us to risks. we may in the future make strategic acquisitions either of other companies or selected blocks of business, expand our business lines or enter into joint ventures. any future acquisitions may expose us to challenges and risks, including: • integrating financial and operational reporting systems and establishing satisfactory budgetary and other financial controls; • funding increased capital needs, overhead expenses or cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated sales and revenues are not realized or are delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions or unforeseen internal difficulties; • obtaining management personnel required for expanded operations; • obtaining necessary regulatory permissions; • the value of assets acquired may be lower than expected or may diminish due to credit defaults or changes in interest rates and liabilities assumed may be greater than expected; • the assets and liabilities we may acquire may be subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; and • financial exposures in the event that the sellers of the entities we acquire are unable or unwilling to meet their indemnification, reinsurance and other obligations to us. our failure to manage successfully these operational challenges and risks may impact our results of operations. in addition, if the reserves established by us, as they relate to any acquired book of business, prove to be inadequate, then subject to whatever recourse we may have against the seller or reinsurers, we may be responsible for adverse development in such reserves. if the volume of low down payment mortgage originations declines, the amount of mortgage insurance we write in the u.s. could decline, which would reduce our mortgage insurance revenues. the size of the u.s. mortgage insurance market depends in large part upon the volume of low down payment home mortgage originations. factors affecting the volume of low down payment mortgage originations include, among others: • restrictions on mortgage credit due to stringent underwriting standards and liquidity issues affecting lenders; • changes in mortgage interest rates and home prices, and other economic conditions in the u.s. and regional economies; • population trends, including the rate of household formation; and • u.s. government housing policy. a decline in the volume of low down payment home mortgage originations could decrease demand for mortgage insurance, decrease our new insurance written and reduce mortgage insurance revenues. 65 table of contents if the role of the gses in the u.s. housing market changes, or if the gses change other policies or practices, the amount of insurance that we write could decrease. the gses are the beneficiaries of a significant portion of the insurance policies we issue as a result of their purchases, statutorily required or otherwise, of qualifying mortgage loans from lenders or investors. accordingly, changes in the following or other gse policies could significantly affect our u.s. mortgage insurance operations: • the amount of loans purchased by the gses that require mortgage insurance; • the level of private mortgage insurance coverage lenders select when private mortgage insurance is used as the required credit enhancement on low down payment mortgages; • gse pricing, including the amount of loan level fees that the gses assess on loans that require mortgage insurance, which could reduce the demand for our products; • loan eligibility standards for loans purchased by the gses, which impact the conforming mortgage loan origination market, including loan quality and availability; • terms on which mortgage insurance coverage can be canceled before reaching the cancellation thresholds required by law; • purchases by the gses of credit enhancements other than mortgage insurance; • whether the gses influence mortgage lenders’ selection of mortgage insurers providing coverage; and • the size of loans that are eligible for purchase or guaranty by the gses. the charters of the gses require credit enhancement for low down payment mortgages in order for such loans to be eligible for purchase or guarantee by the gses. lenders have typically used mortgage insurance to satisfy gse charter credit enhancement requirements. if the charters of the gses were amended to change or eliminate the acceptability of private mortgage insurance, our new mortgage insurance business could decline significantly. the gses are operating under the conservatorship of the federal housing finance agency. in conservatorship, the gses could change their practices with respect to mortgage insurance or individual mortgage insurers, which could affect mortgage insurance coverage required by the gses on mortgage loans or arch mi u.s.’s status as an eligible mortgage insurer. the gses practices also may be impacted by legislative or regulatory changes. the u.s. congress is examining the role of the gses in the u.s. housing market and may implement structural and other changes to the gses. since 2011, a number of legislative proposals have been introduced with regard to the future role of the gses, the structure of the secondary market and the role of the federal government within the mortgage market. we cannot predict whether any of these proposals will become law or the impact any future legislation will have on our u.s. mortgage insurance operations. as a result of the foregoing issues, it is uncertain what role the gses and the mortgage insurance industry will play in the housing finance system in the future or the impact of any such changes on arch mi u.s. changes in the gses’ roles or practices could have a material adverse effect on our u.s. mortgage insurance business. the premiums we charge for mortgage insurance on insured loans and the associated investment income may not be adequate to compensate for future losses from these loans. we set premiums at the time a policy is issued based upon our expectations regarding likely performance over the life of insurance coverage. we generally cannot cancel mortgage insurance coverage or adjust renewal premiums during the life of a mortgage insurance policy. as a result, losses from higher than anticipated claims generally cannot be offset by premium increases on policies in force or mitigated by non-renewal or cancellation of insurance coverage. the premiums we charge on our insurance in force and the associated investment income may not be adequate to compensate us for the risks and costs associated with the insurance coverage provided to customers. our mortgage insurance portfolio includes loans with loan to value (“ltv”) ratios exceeding 95%, adjustable rate mortgages, or arms, reduced documentation loans and less than a-quality loans. we expect higher default and claim rates for high-ltv loans, arms, reduced documentation loans, less-than-a quality loans. although we attempt to incorporate the higher default and claim rates associated with these loans into our underwriting and pricing models, there can be no assurance that the premiums earned and the associated investment income will adequately compensate us for future losses from these loans. 66 table of contents geographic concentration of our u.s. mortgage insurance insurance in force could increase losses and harm our financial performance.  we are affected by economic downturns and other events in specific regions of the united states where a large portion of our u.s. mortgage insurance business is concentrated. as of december 31, 2013, 5.1% of cmg mortgage insurance company’s primary risk-in-force was located in florida and 8.8% was located in california. historically, cmg mortgage insurance company has experienced higher levels of losses in those states. continued elevated loss experience with respect to risk-in-force in these states could adversely affect our results of operations. existing or new gse requirements under eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers could reduce our operating flexibility or require us to contribute additional capital to arch mi u.s. fannie mae and freddie mac have each established approval requirements for eligible mortgage insurers relating to most areas of arch mi u.s.’s operations. the gses may revise their eligibility requirements at any time. the gses are currently developing revisions to their eligibility guidelines that we believe will include greater limitations and restrictions on mortgage insurers. although the gses have not publicly disclosed the substance of the revisions, we expect the revised rules will include new minimum capital requirements. the revisions could adversely affect our ability to write mortgage insurance, to generate the returns we anticipate from our mortgage insurance operations, or to compete with providers of alternatives to mortgage insurance. the gses could revise existing eligibility requirements to require mortgage insurers to acquire additional capital or further limit certain activities and practices in order to remain an eligible mortgage insurer with them. such limitations could include, among other things, maximum risk-to-capital ratios and limitations on our ability to pay dividends or make other payments, which could limit our operating flexibility. in order to become an eligible mortgage insurer, arch mi u.s. agreed to certain requirements and conditions in addition to the gses’ established approval requirements. as a condition to its approval from freddie mac, arch mi u.s. is required to maintain statutory capital (policyholders’ surplus plus contingency reserves) of no less than $200 million and a risk-to-capital ratio of no greater than 18 to 1. as a condition of its approval from fannie mae, arch mi u.s. is required to maintain statutory capital (defined as policyholders' surplus plus contingency reserves) of no less than $260 million and a risk-to-capital ratio of no greater than 18 to 1. if arch mi u.s. were to fail to meet gse or state regulatory capital requirements, it could be required to suspend writing business in some or all states. while we intend to adhere to these requirements, there can be no assurance that the gses will continue to treat arch mi u.s. as an eligible mortgage insurer. the gses, as major purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the united states, are the primary beneficiaries of arch mi u.s.’s mortgage insurance coverage. if either or both of the gses were to cease to consider arch mi u.s. an eligible mortgage insurer and, therefore, cease accepting our mortgage insurance products, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. state regulation of mortgage insurers could in the future cause arch mi u.s. to need additional capital to fund its operations or expand its business and, if we are unable or unwilling to provide it with such capital, it may be unable to operate or expand, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. arch mi u.s. may require additional capital to support its growth and comply with regulatory and gse requirements. arch mi u.s.’s principal regulator is the wisconsin oci. under wisconsin law, as well as that of 15 other states, a mortgage insurer must maintain minimum statutory capital relative to its risk-in-force in order for the mortgage insurer to continue to write new business. while formulations of minimum capital vary by jurisdiction, the most common measure applied allows for a maximum permitted risk to capital ratio of 25 to 1. wisconsin and certain other states, including california and illinois, apply a substantially similar requirement referred to as minimum policyholders position. potential changes to state mortgage insurance regulations could reduce arch mi u.s.’s profitability and its ability to compete with credit enhancement alternatives to mortgage insurance. the naic, which reviews state insurance laws and regulations, has established a mortgage guaranty insurance working group (“working group”) to make recommendations to the naic's financial condition committee regarding changes to the naic’s mortgage guaranty insurance model act. the working group has released a draft model act which includes proposed changes to minimum statutory capital requirements and changes to the extent to which, and period for which, mortgage insurers must establish and hold contingency reserves. 67 table of contents if the naic revises the model act, some state legislatures are likely to enact and implement part or all of the revised provisions. while we cannot predict the effect that any naic recommendations or future legislation may have on arch mi u.s., such changes could reduce arch mi u.s.’s profitability and its ability to compete with credit enhancement alternatives to mortgage insurance, which could harm our financial condition or results of operations. our mortgage insurance business is dependent on maintaining and expanding our customer base. the success of our u.s. mortgage insurance operations is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain non-credit union customers and, particularly, the large lenders that originate a significant majority of low down payment mortgages in the u.s. to insure loans originated by these originators, we must obtain their respective approvals as an authorized mortgage insurer and establish connectivity with their mortgage origination systems. the process of obtaining lender approvals and integrating our systems can be time-consuming and requires the coordination of significant lender resources. there is no assurance we will receive approvals from these lenders or establish system connectivity with them in a timely manner or at all. if we cannot timely obtain such approvals, or fail to obtain and retain approvals, arch mi u.s.’s business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. the loss of a significant customer could reduce our mortgage insurance revenue and, if not replaced, adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. increasing consolidation among mortgage lenders, including recent mergers in the u.s. banking indsutry, will continue to result in significant customer concentration for u.s. mortgage insurers. as a result of this significant concentration, fannie mae, freddie mac and the largest mortgage lenders possess substantial market power, which enables them to influence our business and the mortgage insurance industry in general. a deterioration in any of these relationships, or the loss of business from our key customers, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. if servicers fail to adhere to appropriate servicing standards or experience disruptions to their businesses, our mortgage insurance operations could be adversely affected. our mortgage insurance policies require our customers and their servicers to timely submit premium and reports and utilize commercially reasonable efforts to limit and mitigate loss when a loan is in default. if one or more servicers failed to adhere to these requirements, our financial results could be adversely affected. without reliable servicing, we may be unable to process new mortgage insurance business or service existing insured loans. arch mi u.s. could be adversely affected if, and to the extent that, the consumer financial protection bureau's (“cfpb”) final rule defining a qualified mortgage reduces the size of the origination market or private mortgage insurance market. the dodd-frank act authorized the cfpb to issue regulations governing a loan originator's determination that, at the time a loan is originated, the consumer has a reasonable ability to repay the loan (“atr”). the cfpb’s atr regulations became effective for residential mortgage loan applications received on january 10, 2014. the dodd-frank act provides a statutory presumption that a borrower will have the ability to repay a loan if the loan meets the definition of “qualified mortgage,” (“qm”), contained in the cfpb atr regulations. because the statutory presumption may allow lenders to mitigate liability risk under the truth in lending act, lenders may be reluctant to make loans that do not qualify as qms. under the atr regulations, if the lender requires the borrower to purchase mortgage insurance, the mortgage insurance premiums are included in monthly mortgage costs in determining the borrower's ability to repay the loan. the demand for mortgage insurance may decrease if monthly mortgage insurance premiums make it less likely that a loan will qualify for qm status. in addition, under the atr regulations, mortgage insurance premiums payable at or prior to consummation of the loan are under certain circumstances included in points and fees. the qm rule includes a limitation on points and fees in excess of 3% of the total loan amount. mortgage originators may be less likely to purchase single premium mortgage insurance products to the extent that the associated premiums are deemed to be points and fees. we cannot predict how origination practices will change as a result of the atr regulations. to the extent changes reduce the size of the origination market or the private mortgage insurance market, arch mi u.s.’s business could be adversely affected. federal regulation relating to minimum credit risk-retention requirements in residential mortgage loan securitizations could reduce the number of low down payment loans available to be insured. the dodd-frank act requires certain federal regulators to promulgate regulations providing for minimum credit risk-retention requirements in securitizations of residential mortgage loans that do not meet the definition of “qualified residential mortgages” (“qrm”). in 2011, federal regulators issued a proposed credit risk retention rule, which the 68 table of contents regulators re-proposed with revisions on in 2013. the initial proposed rule suggested maximum ltv ratios and did not give consideration to mortgage insurance in computing ltvs. the re-proposed rule did not include the maximum ltv requirements. instead, the federal regulators proposed that if a mortgage loan meets the cfpb’s definition of a “qualified mortgage,” the loan would be considered a qrm loan. the re-proposal also presented an alternative approach to defining qrm, referred to as “qm plus.” under this alternative, to be eligible for qrm status, the loan’s ltv could not exceed 70% (exclusive of any credit insurance). if the federal regulators adopt a final qrm rule that is similar to the qm plus proposal and such final rule does not give consideration to mortgage insurance in computing ltv, arch mi u.s.’s business could be adversely affected. the impact of the re-proposed qrm rule on the mortgage insurance industry is uncertain and depends on, among other things, the final definition of qrm and whether the final definition will affect the size of the high-ltv mortgage market. if the final qrm rule adopted by the federal regulators materially reduces the size of the high-ltv mortgage market, arch mi u.s.’s business could be adversely affected. while the gses are not now subject to the dodd-frank act credit risk retention requirements, changes in their conservatorship status or the capital support provided to the gses by the u.s. government could impact the manner in which the credit risk retention rules apply to them. if the gses become subject to the credit risk retention requirements, or if the portion of the mortgage market that the gses either purchase or securitize diminishes, arch mi u.s.’s business could be adversely affected. the implementation of the basel iii capital accord may adversely affect the use of mortgage insurance by certain banks. in 1988, the basel committee on banking supervision developed the basel capital accord, “basel i,” which set out international benchmarks for assessing banks' capital adequacy requirements. in 2005, the basel committee issued “basel ii” which, among other things, governs the capital treatment of mortgage insurance purchased and held on balance sheet by banks in respect of their origination and securitization activities. in july 2013, federal agencies approved publication of final regulatory capital rules, called the “basel iii rules.” with certain exceptions, the basel iii rules became effective on january 1, 2014. if implementation of the basel iii rules increases the capital requirements of banking organizations with respect to the residential mortgages we insure or does not provide sufficiently favorable treatment for the use of mortgage insurance, it could adversely affect the demand for mortgage insurance. we sold our prior reinsurance operations in may 2000 and may have liability to the purchaser and continuing liability from those reinsurance operations if the purchaser should fail to make payments on the reinsurance liabilities it assumed. on may 5, 2000, we sold our prior reinsurance operations to sirius america reinsurance company (“sirius america”), formerly known as white mountains reinsurance company of america. the sirius america transaction was structured as a transfer and assumption agreement (and not reinsurance), and, accordingly, the loss reserves (and any related reinsurance recoverables) relating to the transferred business are not included as assets or liabilities on our balance sheet. in addition, in connection with that asset sale, we made extensive representations and warranties about us and our reinsurance operations, some of which survived the closing of the asset sale. breach of these representations and warranties could result in liability for us. in the event that sirius america refuses or is unable to make payment for reserved losses transferred to it by us in the may 2000 sale and the notice given to reinsureds is found not to be an effective release by such reinsureds, we would be liable for such claims. a.m. best has assigned an “a” (excellent) financial strength rating to sirius america. sirius america reported $528 million of regulatory capital at december 31, 2012. some of the provisions of our bye-laws and our shareholders agreement may have the effect of hindering, delaying or preventing third party takeovers or changes in management initiated by shareholders. these provisions may also prevent our shareholders from receiving premium prices for their shares in an unsolicited takeover. some provisions of our bye-laws could have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or changes in management initiated by shareholders. these provisions may encourage companies interested in acquiring us to negotiate in advance with our board of directors, since the board has the authority to overrule the operation of several of the limitations. among other things, our bye-laws provide: • for a classified board of directors, in which the directors of the class elected at each annual general meeting holds office for a term of three years, with the term of each class expiring at successive annual general meetings of shareholders; 69 table of contents • that the number of directors is determined by the board from time to time by a vote of the majority of our board; • that directors may only be removed for cause, and cause removal shall be deemed to exist only if the director whose removal is proposed has been convicted of a felony or been found by a court to be liable for gross negligence or misconduct in the performance of his or her duties; • that our board has the right to fill vacancies, including vacancies created by an expansion of the board; and • for limitations on shareholders' right to raise proposals or nominate directors at general meetings. our bye-laws provide that certain provisions which may have anti-takeover effects may be repealed or altered only with prior board approval and upon the affirmative vote of holders of shares representing at least 65% of the total voting power of our shares entitled generally to vote at an election of directors. the bye-laws also contain a provision limiting the rights of any u.s. person (as defined in section 7701(a)(30) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code")) that owns shares of acgl, directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the code), representing more than 9.9% of the voting power of all shares entitled to vote generally at an election of directors. the votes conferred by such shares of such u.s. person will be reduced by whatever amount is necessary so that after any such reduction the votes conferred by the shares of such person will constitute 9.9% of the total voting power of all shares entitled to vote generally at an election of directors. notwithstanding this provision, the board may make such final adjustments to the aggregate number of votes conferred by the shares of any u.s. person that the board considers fair and reasonable in all circumstances to ensure that such votes represent 9.9% of the aggregate voting power of the votes conferred by all shares of acgl entitled to vote generally at an election of directors. acgl will assume that all shareholders (other than specified persons) are u.s. persons unless we receive assurance satisfactory to us that they are not u.s. persons. moreover, most states, including states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled, have laws and regulations that require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurer or an insurer's holding company. where such laws apply to us and our subsidiaries, there can be no effective change in our control unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement with the regulators and has obtained prior approval for the proposed change from such regulators. the usual measure for a presumptive change in control pursuant to these laws is the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting power of the insurance company or its parent, although this presumption is rebuttable. consequently, a person may not acquire 10% or more of our common shares without the prior approval of insurance regulators in the state in which our subsidiaries are domiciled. the bye-laws also provide that the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting power of our shares (excluding shares owned by any person (and such person’s affiliates and associates) that is the owner of 15% or more (a “15% holder”) of our outstanding voting shares) shall be required for various corporate actions, including: • merger or consolidation of the company into a 15% holder; • sale of any or all of our assets to a 15% holder; • the issuance of voting securities to a 15% holder; or • amendment of these provisions; provided, however, the supermajority vote will not apply to any transaction approved by the board. the provisions described above may have the effect of making more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties. to the extent that these effects occur, shareholders could be deprived of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares and the market price of their shares could be depressed. in addition, these provisions could also result in the entrenchment of incumbent management. our operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation in various jurisdictions, and material changes in the regulation of their operations could adversely affect us. our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which they are licensed or authorized to do business. governmental agencies have broad administrative power to regulate many aspects of the insurance business, which may include trade and claim practices, accounting methods, premium rates, marketing practices, claims practices, advertising, policy forms, and capital adequacy. these agencies are concerned 70 table of contents primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. moreover, insurance laws and regulations, among other things: • establish solvency requirements, including minimum reserves and capital and surplus requirements; • limit the amount of dividends, tax distributions, intercompany loans and other payments our insurance subsidiaries can make without prior regulatory approval; • impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments we may hold; • require assessments through guaranty funds to pay claims of insolvent insurance companies; and • require participation in state-assigned risk plans which may take the form of reinsuring a portion of a pool of policies or the direct issuance of policies to insureds. the naic continuously examines existing laws and regulations in the u.s. we cannot predict the effect that any naic recommendations or proposed or future legislation or rule making in the u.s. or elsewhere may have on our financial condition or operations. our bermuda insurance and reinsurance subsidiary, arch re bermuda, conducts its business from its offices in bermuda and is not licensed or admitted to do business in any jurisdiction except bermuda. however, arch re bermuda has been approved as a “certified reinsurer” in certain u.s. states that allow reduced collateral for reinsurance ceded to such insurers; such “certified reinsurers” are subject to certain insurance laws in the u.s. states where they are certified. recent scrutiny of the insurance and reinsurance industry in the u.s. and other countries could subject arch re bermuda to additional regulation. our u.s. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries write insurance and reinsurance in the u.s. these subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation under state statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance commissioners. such regulation generally is designed to protect policyholders rather than investors. arch insurance canada writes insurance and reinsurance in canada and is subject to federal, as well as provincial and territorial, regulation in canada. arch insurance europe conducts its business from london and branch offices in certain eu countries and is subject to the insurance regulations of the u.k. arch risk partners is also based in the u.k. and subject to u.k. regulations. arch re europe and arch mi europe, our subsidiaries in ireland, conduct their business from ireland and are subject to the regulations in ireland. arch re europe also conducts business from branch offices in switzerland and u.k., as well as in denmark. arch insurance europe, arch re europe, arch risk partners and arch mi europe are also subject to the eu regulations and regulations of the respective eu member states where they have established branches or in which they conduct business with respect to the conduct of their business in such eu member state, but each company remains subject only to the financial and operational supervision by the pra or fca (as applicable), in the case of arch insurance europe and arch risk partners, and the cboi, in the case of arch re europe. arch insurance europe, arch mi europe, arch risk partners and arch re europe have the freedom to provide their respective insurance and reinsurance services anywhere in the eea subject to compliance with certain rules governing such provision, including notification to the pra or fca (as applicable) and the cboi, respectively. arch insurance company europe is eligible to write excess and surplus lines insurance in all 50 states, the district of columbia, the u.s. virgin islands, guam the northern mariana islands and american samoa by virtue of its listing on the naic international insurers department’s quarterly listing of alien insurers pursuant to the nonadmitted and reinsurance reform act of 2010. in addition, aual, on behalf of arch syndicate 2012, is approved to underwrite excess and surplus lines insurance in most states in the u.s. through lloyd’s licenses. our u.s., bermuda, canada, u.k. and ireland subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum capital and surplus as mandated by their respective jurisdictions of incorporation and, in some cases, by the jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries write business. arch insurance company europe is required to maintain minimum capital surplus as mandated by the naic and where it is eligible to write excess and surplus lines insurance. all of our subsidiaries are currently in compliance with these capital and surplus requirements. in addition, virtually all u.s. states require insurers licensed to do business therein to bear a portion of contingent and incurred claim handling expenses and the unfunded amount of “covered” claim and unearned premium obligations of impaired or insolvent insurance companies, either up to the policy's limit, the applicable guaranty fund covered claim obligation cap, or 100% of statutorily defined workers' compensation benefits, subject to applicable deductibles. these obligations are funded by assessments, made on a retrospective, prospective or prefunded basis, which are levied by guaranty associations within the state, up to prescribed limits (typically 2% of “net direct written premium”), on all member 71 table of contents insurers in the state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in certain covered lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer was engaged. accordingly, the total amount of assessments levied on us by the states in which we are licensed to write insurance may increase as we increase our premiums written. in addition, as a condition to the ability to conduct business in certain states (and within the jurisdiction of some local governments), insurance companies are subject to or required to participate in various premium or loss based insurance-related assessments, including mandatory (a/k/a “involuntary”) insurance pools, underwriting associations, workers' compensation second-injury funds, reinsurance funds and other state insurance facilities. although we may be entitled to take premium tax credit (or offsets), recover policy surcharges or include assessments in future premium rate structures for payments we make under these facilities, the effect of these assessments and insurance-related arrangements, or changes in them, could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. we periodically review our corporate structure so that we can optimally deploy our capital. changes in that structure require regulatory approval. delays or failure in obtaining any of these approvals could limit the amount of insurance that we can write in the u.s. if acgl or any of our subsidiaries were to become subject to the laws of a new jurisdiction in which such entity is not presently admitted, acgl or such subsidiary may not be in compliance with the laws of the new jurisdiction. in addition, we could, at any time and in any jurisdiction, face individual, group and class action lawsuits by our policyholders and others for alleged violations of applicable laws and regulations. any such litigation or failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in suspensions, injunctions, monetary damages, fines or other sanctions, any or all of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to risks related to litigation. we may from time to time be subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our current and past business operations, including, but not limited to, disputes over coverage or claims adjudication, including claims alleging that we have acted in bad faith in the administration of claims by our policyholders, disputes with our agents, producers or network providers over compensation and termination of contracts and related claims and disputes relating to certain businesses acquired or disposed of by us. multi-party or class action claims may present additional exposure to substantial economic, non−economic or punitive damage awards. the loss of even one of these claims, if it resulted in a significant damage award or a judicial ruling that was otherwise detrimental, could create a precedent in the industry that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. this risk of potential liability may make reasonable settlements of claims more difficult to obtain. we cannot determine with any certainty what new theories of recovery may evolve or what their impact may be on our business. mortgage insurers have been involved in litigation alleging violations of the real estate settlement procedures act of 1974 (“respa”) and the fair credit reporting act (“fcra”). respa generally precludes arch mi u.s. from providing services or products to mortgage lenders free of charge, charging fees for services that are lower than their reasonable or fair market value, and paying fees for services that others provide that are higher than their reasonable or fair market value, in exchange for the referral of settlement services. violations of the referral fee limitations of respa may be enforced by the federal agencies, state attorneys general and state insurance commissioners, as well as by private litigants in class actions. a number of lawsuits have challenged the actions of mortgage insurers other than arch mi u.s., alleging that the insurers violated respa by entering into captive reinsurance arrangements or providing products or services, including contract underwriting, to mortgage lenders at improperly reduced prices in return for the referral of mortgage insurance. other mortgage insurance companies have received civil investigative demands from the cfpb as part of its investigation to determine whether mortgage lenders’ and mortgage insurance providers’ captive mortgage insurance arrangements violated federal law. we cannot predict whether additional actions of these types, or other actions, will be brought against us or other mortgage insurers. any such proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 72 table of contents if our bermuda principal operating subsidiary becomes subject to insurance statutes and regulations in jurisdictions other than bermuda or if there is a change in bermuda law or regulations or the application of bermuda law or regulations, there could be a significant and negative impact on our business. arch re bermuda, our bermuda insurance and reinsurance subsidiary, is a registered bermuda class 4 general business insurer and as a class c long-term business insurer and has been designated as the designated insurer for group supervision purposes. as such, it is subject to regulation and supervision in bermuda. bermuda insurance statutes and the regulations and policies of the bma require arch re bermuda to, among other things: • maintain a minimum level of capital and surplus on both an individual and group basis; • maintain an individual (for its general business) enhanced capital requirement, general and long-term business solvency margins on an individual and group basis and a minimum liquidity ratio (for its general business); • restrict dividends and distributions; • obtain prior approval regarding the ownership and transfer of shares; • maintain a principal office and appoint and maintain a principal representative in bermuda; • file annual financial statements, an annual statutory financial return and an annual capital and solvency return; and • allow for the performance of certain period examinations of arch re bermuda and its financial condition and that of the group insurance companies. these statutes and regulations may restrict our ability to write insurance and reinsurance policies, distribute funds and pursue our investment strategy. we do not presently intend for arch re bermuda to be admitted to do business in the u.s., u.k. or any jurisdiction other than bermuda, although arch re bermuda has been approved as a “certified reinsurer” in certain u.s. states that allow reduced collateral for reinsurance ceded to such reinsurers. we cannot assure you that insurance regulators in the u.s., u.k. or elsewhere will not review the activities or arch re bermuda or its subsidiaries or agents and assert that arch re bermuda is subject to such jurisdiction’s licensing requirements, or impose restrictions on arch re bermuda as a condition for its being approved as a “certified reinsurer.” generally, bermuda insurance statutes and regulations applicable to arch re bermuda are less restrictive than those that would be applicable if they were governed by the laws of any states in the u.s. if in the future we become subject to any insurance laws of the u.s. or any state thereof or of any other jurisdiction, we cannot assure you that we would be in compliance with such laws or that complying with such laws would not have a significant and negative effect on our business. the process of obtaining licenses is very time consuming and costly, and arch re bermuda may not be able to become licensed in jurisdictions other than bermuda should we choose to do so. the modification of the conduct of our business that would result if we were required or chose to become licensed in certain jurisdictions could significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our inability to comply with insurance statutes and regulations could significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by limiting our ability to conduct business as well as subject us to penalties and fines. because arch re bermuda is a bermuda company, it is subject to changes in bermuda law and regulation that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including through the imposition of tax liability or increased regulatory supervision. in addition, arch re bermuda will be exposed to any changes in the political environment in bermuda. the bermuda insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework recently has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the u.k. as a result of the delay in implementation of solvency ii, it is unclear when the european commission will take a final decision on whether or not it will recognize the solvency regime in bermuda to be equivalent to that laid down in solvency ii. while we cannot predict the future impact on our operations of changes in the laws and regulation to which we are or may become subject, any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 73 table of contents acgl is a holding company and is dependent on dividends and other payments from its operating subsidiaries, which are subject to dividend restrictions, to make payments, including the payment of debt service obligations and operating expenses we may incur and any payments of dividends, redemption amounts or liquidation amounts with respect to our preferred shares and common shares. acgl is a holding company whose assets primarily consist of the shares in our subsidiaries. generally, acgl depends on its available cash resources, liquid investments and dividends or other distributions from subsidiaries to make payments, including the payment of debt service obligations and operating expenses it may incur and any payments of dividends, redemption amounts or liquidation amounts with respect to our preferred shares and common shares, and to fund the share repurchase program. the ability of our regulated insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions is dependent on their ability to meet applicable regulatory standards. in addition, the ability of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to acgl and to intermediate parent companies owned by acgl could be constrained by our dependence on financial strength ratings from independent rating agencies. our ratings from these agencies depend to a large extent on the capitalization levels of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. we believe that acgl has sufficient cash resources and available dividend capacity to service its indebtedness and other current outstanding obligations. see “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—financial condition, liquidity and capital resources— liquidity and capital resources.” if our bermuda reinsurance subsidiary is unable to provide collateral to ceding companies, its ability to conduct business could be significantly and negatively affected. arch re bermuda is a registered bermuda insurance company and is not licensed or admitted as an insurer in any jurisdiction in the u.s., although arch re bermuda has been approved as a “certified reinsurer” in certain u.s. state that allow reduced collateral for reinsurance ceded to such reinsurers. insurance regulations in the u.s. do not uniformly permit insurance companies to take credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted insurers on their statutory financial statements unless security is posted, and arch re bermuda's contracts generally require it to post a letter of credit or provide other security, even in u.s. states where it has been approved for reduced collateral. although, to date, arch re bermuda has not experienced any difficulties in providing collateral when required, if we are unable to post security in the form of letters of credit or trust funds when required, the operations of arch re bermuda could be significantly and negatively affected. foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation may adversely affect our financial results. we write business on a worldwide basis, and our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in the value of currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary foreign currencies in which we operate are the euro, the british pound sterling and the canadian dollar. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can reduce our revenues, increase our liabilities and costs and cause fluctuations in the valuation of our investment portfolio. we may therefore suffer losses solely as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. in order to mitigate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in our net insurance liabilities, we have invested and expect to continue to invest in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, we may replicate investment positions in foreign currencies using derivative financial instruments. net foreign exchange losses, recorded in the statement of income, were $12.3 million for 2013, compared to losses of $29.0 million for 2012 and gains of $17.4 million for 2011. changes in the value of investments due to foreign currency rate movements are reflected as a direct increase or decrease to shareholders' equity and are not included in the statement of income. we have chosen not to hedge certain currency risks on capital contributed to certain subsidiaries, including to arch insurance europe held in british pounds sterling, and may continue to choose not to hedge our currency risks. there can be no assurances that arrangements to match projected liabilities in foreign currencies with investments in the same currencies or derivative financial instruments will mitigate the negative impact of exchange rate fluctuations, and we may suffer losses solely as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. certain employees of our bermuda operations are required to obtain work permits before engaging in a gainful occupation in bermuda. required work permits may not be granted or may not remain in effect. under bermuda law, only persons who are bermudians, spouses of bermudians, holders of a permanent resident's certificate, holders of a working resident's certificate or  persons who are exempt pursuant to the incentives for job makers act 2011, as amended ("exempted persons") may engage in gainful occupation in bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. our success may depend in part on the continued services of key employees in bermuda. save for the ceo and other ‘chief’ officer positions (where the advertising requirement is automatically waived), a work permit 74 table of contents will only be granted or renewed upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no exempted person is available who meets the minimum standards reasonably required by the employer. a work permit is issued with an expiry date (up to ten years) and no assurances can be given that any work permit will be issued or, if issued, renewed upon the expiration of the relevant term (although, based on current policy, it is unlikely that renewal applications in respect of persons holding ‘chief’ officer positions will be denied). we consider our key officers in bermuda who require work permits to be constantine iordanou, our chairman, president and chief executive officer (work permit expires november 2014), mark d. lyons, our executive vice president and chief financial officer (work permit expires march 2018), marc grandisson, chairman and chief executive officer of arch worldwide reinsurance group (work permit expires may 2015), and nicolas papadopoulo, president and chief executive officer of arch re bermuda (work permit expires march 2015). we also have other key positions in bermuda held by persons who hold work permits subject to renewal. if work permits are not obtained or renewed for our principal employees, we could lose their services, which could materially affect our business. the enforcement of civil liabilities against us may be difficult. we are a bermuda company and some of our officers and directors are residents of various jurisdictions outside the u.s. all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of those persons may be located outside the u.s. as a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the u.s. upon those persons or to enforce in u.s. courts judgments obtained against those persons. we have appointed national registered agents, inc., new york, new york, as our agent for service of process with respect to actions based on offers and sales of securities made in the u.s. we have been advised by our special bermuda legal counsel, conyers dill & pearman limited, that the u.s. and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of u.s. courts in civil and commercial matters and that a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by a court in the u.s. based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the u.s. federal securities laws, would, therefore, not be automatically enforceable in bermuda. we also have been advised by conyers dill & pearman limited that a final and conclusive judgment obtained in a court in the u.s. under which a sum of money is payable as compensatory damages (i.e., not being a sum claimed by a revenue authority for taxes or other charges of a similar nature by a governmental authority, or in respect of a fine or penalty or multiple or punitive damages) may be the subject of an action on a debt in the supreme court of bermuda under the common law doctrine of obligation. such an action should be successful upon proof that the sum of money is due and payable, and without having to prove the facts supporting the underlying judgment, as long as: • the court which gave the judgment had proper jurisdiction over the parties to such judgment; • such court did not contravene the rules of natural justice of bermuda; • such judgment was not obtained by fraud; • the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of bermuda; • no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of bermuda; and • there is due compliance with the correct procedures under bermuda law. a bermuda court may impose civil liability on us or our directors or officers in a suit brought in the supreme court of bermuda against us or such persons with respect to a violation of u.s. federal securities laws, provided that the facts surrounding such violation would constitute or give rise to a cause of action under bermuda law. our international business is subject to applicable laws and regulations relating to sanctions and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations. we must comply with all applicable economic sanctions and anti-bribery laws and regulations of the u.s. and other foreign jurisdictions where we operate, including the u.k. and the european community. u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us include the economic trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the united states department of the treasury’s office of foreign assets control as well as certain laws administered by the united states department of state. in addition, we are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-bribery laws such as the u.k. bribery act that generally bar corrupt payments or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, it is possible that an 75 table of contents employee or intermediary could fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations. in such event, we could be exposed to civil penalties, criminal penalties and other sanctions, including fines or other punitive actions. in addition, such violations could damage our business and/or our reputation. such criminal or civil sanctions, penalties, other sanctions, and damage to our business and/or reputation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. risk relating to our preferred shares general market conditions and unpredictable factors could adversely affect market prices for our outstanding preferred shares. there can be no assurance about the market prices for any series of our preferred shares. several factors, many of which are beyond our control, will influence the fair value of such series of preferred shares. factors that might influence the fair value of any series of our preferred shares include, but are not limited to: • whether dividends have been declared and are likely to be declared on any series of our preferred shares from time to time; • our creditworthiness, financial condition, performance and prospects; • whether the ratings on any series of our preferred shares provided by any ratings agency have changed; • the market for similar securities; and • economic, financial, geopolitical, regulatory or judicial events that affect us and/or the insurance or financial markets generally. dividends on our preferred shares are non-cumulative. dividends on our preferred shares are non-cumulative and payable only out of lawfully available funds of acgl under bermuda law. consequently, if acgl's board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) does not authorize and declare a dividend for any dividend period with respect to any series of our preferred shares, holders of such preferred shares would not be entitled to receive any such dividend, and such unpaid dividend will not accrue and will never be payable. acgl will have no obligation to pay dividends for a dividend period on or after the dividend payment date for such period if its board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) has not declared such dividend before the related dividend payment date; if dividends on any series of our preferred shares are authorized and declared with respect to any subsequent dividend period, acgl will be free to pay dividends on any other series of preferred shares and/or our common shares. in the past, we have not paid dividends on our common shares. our preferred shares are equity and are subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness. our preferred shares are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. as such, our preferred shares will rank junior to all of our indebtedness and other non-equity claims with respect to assets available to satisfy our claims, including in our liquidation. as of december 31, 2013, our total consolidated long-term debt was $900.0 million. we may incur additional debt in the future. our existing and future indebtedness may restrict payments of dividends on our preferred shares. additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of preferred shares like our preferred shares, (1) dividends are payable only if declared by the board of directors of acgl (or a duly authorized committee of the board) and (2) as described under "risks relating to our company—acgl is a holding company and is dependent on dividends and other payments from its operating subsidiaries, which are subject to dividend restrictions, to make payments, including the payment of debt service obligations and operating expenses we may incur and any payments of dividends, redemption amounts or liquidation amounts with respect to our preferred shares and common shares," we are subject to certain regulatory and other constraints affecting our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. the voting rights of holders of our preferred shares are limited. holders of our preferred shares have no voting rights with respect to matters that generally require the approval of voting shareholders. the limited voting rights of holders of our preferred shares include the right to vote as a class on certain fundamental matters that affect the preference or special rights of our preferred shares as set forth in the certificate of designations relating to each series of preferred shares. in addition, if dividends on any series of our preferred shares have not been declared or paid for the equivalent of six dividend payments, whether or not for consecutive dividend 76 table of contents periods, holders of the outstanding preferred shares of any series will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors to our board of directors subject to the terms and to the limited extent as set forth in the certificate of designations relating to such series of preferred shares. there is no limitation on our issuance of securities that rank equally with or senior to our preferred shares. we may issue additional securities that rank equally with or senior to our preferred shares without limitation. the issuance of securities ranking equally with or senior to our preferred shares may reduce the amount available for dividends and the amount recoverable by holders of such series in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of acgl. we may be impacted by regulatory initiatives affecting our preferred shares. our preferred shares are intended to constitute tier 2 capital in accordance with the group requirements of the bma which came into force on january 1, 2013. in order for the preferred shares to qualify as tier 2 capital, the terms of the preferred shares reflect the criteria contained in the insurance (group supervision) rules 2011 published by the bma in january 2012. no assurance can be made that the bma will deem that the preferred shares constitute tier 2 capital under the group supervision rules. in the event that the bma does not make such a determination, subject to the limitations of the preferred shares, which may require the consent of the preferred shareholders, we may be able to vary the terms of the preferred shares or exchange the preferred shares for new securities to achieve the desired regulatory capital treatment. we cannot predict how new regulatory changes in other jurisdictions may affect these rules, if at all, or whether we will be able to make any changes to the terms of the preferred shares to enable it to qualify as tier 2 capital. risks relating to taxation we and our non-u.s. subsidiaries may become subject to u.s. federal income taxation. acgl and its non-u.s. subsidiaries intend to operate their business in a manner that will not cause them to be treated as engaged in a trade or business in the u.s. and, thus, will not be required to pay u.s. federal income taxes (other than u.s. excise taxes on insurance and reinsurance premium and withholding taxes on certain u.s. source investment income) on their income. however, because there is uncertainty as to the activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the u.s., there can be no assurances that the u.s. internal revenue service (“irs”) will not contend successfully that acgl or its non-u.s. subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the u.s. if acgl or any of its non-u.s. subsidiaries were subject to u.s. income tax, our shareholders' equity and earnings could be adversely affected. congress has been considering legislation intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of bermuda and other non-u.s. insurance companies and u.s. insurance companies having bermuda and other non-u.s. affiliates, including perceived tax benefits resulting principally from reinsurance between or among u.s. insurance companies and their bermuda affiliates. some u.s. insurance companies have also been lobbying congress recently to pass such legislation. in this regard, the american jobs creation act of 2004 (the “jobs act”) permits the irs to re-allocate, re-characterize or adjust items of income, deduction or certain other items related to a reinsurance agreement between related parties to reflect the proper source, character and amount for each item (in contrast to prior law, which only covered source and character). the jobs act also eliminated the tax benefits available to a u.s. company that, after march 4, 2003, changed its legal domicile to a non-u.s. jurisdiction, a transaction commonly known as an inversion. we changed our legal domicile from the u.s. to bermuda, but were not affected by the anti-inversion rule because our change in domicile occurred in november 2000. the american infrastructure investment and improvement act of 2008 as passed by the senate finance committee would have made the jobs act anti-inversion rule applicable retroactively to inversions that occurred after march 20, 2002. although this modification would not affect acgl, no assurance can be given that if reintroduced in the current congress the final bill will not make the jobs act anti-inversion rule applicable retroactively to inversions that occurred on an earlier date, in which case acgl could be adversely affected. a recently reintroduced legislative proposal would treat certain foreign corporations as u.s. corporations if such corporation is primarily managed and controlled within the u.s. while we believe acgl is not primarily managed and controlled within the u.s., there is no assurance that the proposal would not apply to acgl. another legislative proposal would treat a foreign corporation as a u.s. corporation if it is determined that the foreign corporation was formed or organized principally for the purpose of avoiding being treated as a u.s. corporation. it is uncertain whether this proposal would apply to acgl, but it would adversely affect us if enacted and found to apply. another legislative proposal has been introduced that would treat certain “tax haven cfcs” as u.s. corporations for federal income tax purposes. the term “tax haven cfc” would include a bermuda corporation that is a controlled foreign corporation, but would exclude corporations that engage in the active 77 table of contents conduct of a trade or business in bermuda. it is not clear how this bill would apply to acgl, which conducts its insurance and reinsurance businesses through its subsidiaries. further, it is not clear whether this bill was intended to apply to a publicly traded company such as acgl. there is no assurance that this legislative proposal, if enacted, would not apply to acgl or any of its non-u.s. subsidiaries. in addition, congress has conducted hearings relating to the tax treatment of reinsurance between affiliates and is reported to be considering legislation that would adversely affect reinsurance between u.s. and non-u.s. affiliates. one such proposal would increase the excise tax rate on reinsurance premiums paid to affiliated non-u.s. reinsurers. a legislative proposal in the house of representatives as well as a prior senate finance committee staff discussion draft and other prior proposals would limit deductions for premiums ceded to affiliated non-u.s. reinsurers above certain levels. the administration’s fiscal year 2014 revenue proposals contain a similar but more restrictive provision that would deny deductions for all premiums ceded to affiliated non-u.s. reinsurers, offset by an exclusion for any ceding commissions received or reinsurance recovered from such affiliates. two legislative proposals (i.e., h.r. 3157 and s. 1963) introduced during the 112th congress appeared to adopt the provision contained in the administration’s fiscal year 2014 revenue proposals. enactment of such legislation or proposal as well as other changes in u.s. tax laws, regulations and interpretations thereof to address these issues could adversely affect us. in november of 2013, the senate committee on finance published two alternative chairman’s staff discussion drafts on reforming international business taxation. the drafts contain legislative proposals that, if enacted, could adversely affect us. the drafts include a provision to limit deductions for premium ceded to affiliated non-u.s. reinsurers, which is similar to the provision in the administration’s fiscal year 2014 revenue proposals as described above. the drafts would repeal the portfolio interest exemption on u.s. corporate debt, which could significantly increase tax liabilities on our investment portfolio or cause us to increase investment in non-u.s. corporate debt. on february 26, 2014, the house ways and means committee chairman dave camp published a tax reform proposal titled “tax reform act of 2014.” the proposal contains several provisions that, if enacted, could adversely affect us. one provision is similar to the reinsurance premium disallowance provision contained in the administration’s fiscal year 2014 revenue proposals as described above. other provisions in the proposal would modify certain tax rules applicable to u.s. and non-u.s. insurance companies, which could adversely affect our u.s. federal income tax liabilities. our non-u.s. companies may be subject to u.k. tax that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, other than our u.k. subsidiaries and branch operations (the “u.k. group”), should be resident in the u.k. for tax purposes or carry on a trade, whether or not through a permanent establishment, in the u.k. accordingly, we do not expect that of our other subsidiaries, other than the u.k. group, should be subject to u.k. tax. case law has held that whether or not a trade is being carried on in the u.k. is a matter of fact and emphasis is placed on where the operations take place from which the profits in substance arise. hm revenue and customs might contend successfully that one or more of our subsidiaries, in addition to the u.k. group, is carrying on a trade in the u.k. for u.k. tax purposes, a non-u.k. tax resident company will be subject to u.k. corporation tax only if it carries on a trade through a permanent establishment in the u.k. however, that subsidiary may still be subject to u.k. income tax if it carries on a trade in the u.k., without a permanent establishment, unless it is entitled to the protection afforded by a double tax treaty between the u.k. and the jurisdiction in which that company is resident. if any of our subsidiaries is treated as resident, or carrying on a trade, in the u.k., whether or not through a permanent establishment, and, therefore, subject to u.k. tax, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we may become subject to taxes in bermuda after march 31, 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. under current bermuda law, we are not subject to tax on income, profits, withholding, capital gains or capital transfers. furthermore, we have obtained from the minister of finance of bermuda under the exempted undertakings tax protection act, 1966, an assurance that, in the event that bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of the tax will not be applicable to us or our operations until march 31, 2035. we could be subject to taxes in bermuda after that date. this assurance does not, however, prevent the imposition of taxes on any person ordinarily resident in bermuda or any company in respect of its ownership of real property or leasehold interests in bermuda. 78 table of contents the impact of bermuda's letter of commitment to the oecd to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in bermuda. the organization for economic cooperation and development ("oecd") has published reports and launched a global initiative among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. these measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. bermuda was not listed in the most recent report as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices, to embrace international tax standards for transparency, to exchange information and to eliminate an environment that attracts business with no substantial domestic activity. we are not able predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. we may become subject to taxation on profits generated in bermuda as a result of the oecd's plan on "base erosion and profit shifting" in 2013, the oecd published an “action plan on base erosion and profit shifting.” the plan proposes the development of rules to prevent base erosion and profit shifting which may drive fundamental changes in the perception of tax structuring and transfer pricing by tax authorities. the action plan includes adopting transfer pricing rules or special measures to ensure that returns will not accrue to an entity solely because it has contractually assumed risks or has provided capital. the action plan will likely put a much greater emphasis on the location of individuals and their contributions towards profit generation. this may result in a significant change to the existing transfer pricing rules and would potentially have a significant impact on the allocation of taxable profits throughout our subsidiaries. as a consequence, profits currently generated in bermuda may become subject to taxation outside bermuda. item 1b. unresolved